ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u1	President Raija Vahasalo, who has come as a deputy from the constituency of Uusimaa instead of Sanna Lauslahti, has presented me with his mandate and has taken office today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u2	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u3	Mr President, värderade talman! This proposal proposes a completely new general law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters. The new law would repeal the existing Administrative Law. The new law would provide for a more precise trial before administrative courts. The aim is also to improve the procedural management of courts so that cases can be dealt with by administrative courts in the future without undue delay. The proposal takes into account, inter alia, changes in legislation and more recent case law of the European Court of Human Rights and other reform needs. The new general law would apply to proceedings before administrative courts where no other law provides otherwise. The legislation of different administrative sectors contains different provisions from the general law, such as the right to appeal by the authority or the right to appeal. The scope of the general law is partly limited by the fact that the basic provisions on municipal complaints are in municipal buildings. In addition, the regional reform pending in Parliament includes legislative proposals for a regional appeal. The new general law would provide greater guarantees of access to the courts in administrative matters concerning his or her rights or obligations. The administrative decision should be appealed to the administrative court regardless of the organisational status of the person making the decision. The decision of the General Session of the Government would be directly appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, as is the case today. The most important change compared to the law in force would be that the Supreme Administrative Court would act more as a preliminary court. In recent years, the scope of complaint authorisation regulation has been extended to a wide range of issues. Currently, more than half of complaints coming to the Supreme Administrative Court are covered by the scope of the Licensing Regulation. According to the proposal, the appeal permit provision would be the main rule when the administrative court’s decision is appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. In practice, the basis for prior decision is the most important criterion for the granting of a permit to appeal. However, that would not be the only reason for the appeal, but the Supreme Administrative Court could also consider a manifest error or other serious reasons, as is the case today. The proposed provision on the authorisation of appeal would also apply to complaints by the authority. In the absence of established case law, it may be necessary to have the authority which issued the decision to appeal against the decision of the administrative court to the Supreme Administrative Court. At present, the right of the authority to appeal is based on public-interest supervision or on specific provisions in different sectors of government. The proposal would clarify the regulation in this respect. The proposed law would provide for the possibility of an oral preparatory session and inspections. The new law would also make it possible for a single administrative court to deal, where appropriate, with a set of cases which have been divided into several administrative courts. The law would include provisions on the witness’s so - called self -crimination protection, that is, the right to refuse to disclose facts that might hold him or his loved ones on trial. At present, this is not regulated by law in the area of administrative law, but is based on the European Convention on Human Rights and its case law. Currently district courts can also issue temporary security orders in administrative matters. The proposal proposes that the power to adopt interim provisions in administrative matters be transferred to the administrative courts as a whole. It is planned that the new law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters will enter into force at the beginning or early 2019. The Act also includes necessary changes to a number of other laws resulting from the repeal of the Administrative Law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u4	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Minister Häkkänen must be commended for the determined progress made on these matters of appeal authorisation. After all, in environmental and planning matters, a complaint authorisation was introduced at the beginning of this year and now this proposal extends the authorisation system. That has been our long-term objective, and this is very much to be welcomed. This reform, which has now been submitted to Parliament, will speed up the processes and safeguard the resources of the Supreme Administrative Court against the more difficult issues and, on the other hand, those from which it is important to obtain a ruling from the Supreme Court. Now the same thing can be investigated by the authorities four different times. First, there is an administrative decision, then an appeal is made, then there is the right to appeal to the administrative court and, in the current system, to the Supreme Administrative Court. And, as has been pointed out in the debates, there is a huge amount of investment in these long complaints processes and multiple readings, a variety of decisions that are already being taken and needed by just ordinary people, entrepreneurs and others, and it makes sense to make such a system of complaints, to extend it to this too. We have also had situations in which another authority has appealed against decisions taken by another authority. From the point of view of citizens' legal protection, it is not necessary in any way for all matters to be brought before the Supreme Court. This proposal therefore brings savings and speeds up the processes of companies and private individuals, and so on. After all, the Constitutional Committee has addressed a similar issue in its own opinion 29/2017 and has stated that the regulation of appeal permits is not problematic even in matters relating to planning, environmental permits or other environmental issues, which may have wide-ranging implications. Mr President! As Minister Häkkänen said in his presentation, the speed of obtaining a final decision on access to justice is also an important value, as this proposal to extend the complaint authorisation system, in particular, guarantees. This is a good and worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u6	Madam President! While the reform of administrative law may sound only of interest to officials and legal scholars, it is a fundamental matter that affects all people living in Finland. Administrative authorities are responsible for providing services and securing livelihoods in the welfare society. The authorities will monitor the implementation of environmental protection decisions. The framework for economic activity is also largely dependent on the good functioning of the public sector. This reform must be carried out carefully and with different considerations. The Government's efforts to speed up and intensify the process must be understood and supported. Economic activity must not stop in the mazes of slow and complex administrative law. The right of appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court is justified by this. The appeal procedure provided for in the proposal would also turn KHO more into a preliminary ruling court. President! Speed is sometimes contrasted with legal protection. Things are either made straight, or they are thought over for a long time. It is not quite as simple as that. Legal certainty also requires that decisions come within a reasonable period of time. There should not be a complete conflict between efficiency and legal certainty. It is therefore a good thing that the new law incorporates the possibility for the authority to appeal against the decision of another authority, albeit only through the right to appeal. In environmental matters in particular, there is a need for a complaint from the authorities. Nature doesn't speak for itself. The balance between environmental policy and industrial policy requires that solutions be carefully weighed from one side to the next. The public interest must be protected, and this must also be borne in mind in the context of the construction of the new Creative Agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u7	Mr President! Indeed, that is where our Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, presented the content of the Government's proposal in great detail, and I myself would mention this matter of the right of appeal, as Mr Heinonen also pointed out, that this will mean in future that the administrative decision may be appealed against regardless of the organisational status of the author of the administrative decision. A significant change will be that, in the event of an appeal to the Administrative Court for a change to the decision of the Administrative Court, it would always be necessary, in principle, for the Supreme Administrative Court to obtain that appeal authorisation. And an appeal is granted if there is a need to obtain a preliminary ruling or there is a manifest error in the decision of the administrative court or if there is another serious reason for the new proceedings. When this happens, then the automatic right to an administrative court decision is left to the Supreme Administrative Court, which is likely to reduce the examination of clear cases to another or even a third time. This change will speed up, for example, the handling of complaints related to planning and land use and therefore the start of construction projects. And it is worth pointing out that this matter has been recorded in the Government Programme of Good Government as early as 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u8	Mr President! There is a government proposal in the referral debate, which is a good example of what is called a smart norm. This time, the target is the prolonged spiral of complaints and the problems that have arisen in our administration over the years. The most important of these has been the generality of procedural rules, which has led to different procedures in administrative courts. On the other hand, the generality of the provisions has meant that, with the exception of a few experts, the parties concerned and their agents, as well as the administrative authorities, are not always aware of their rights and obligations. Together, they have placed citizens and legal persons on an unequal footing before the law. This has not been desirable for citizens' legal protection. Mr President! In this government proposal, a long-awaited change is now being made in this instance. The proposed new law would provide for a more precise treatment of the administrative case, for example a complaint against a decision of the authorities in the administrative court. Interpreting resources would therefore be left in the past. It has also been assumed that the clarification of the provisions would increase the popularity of less costly forms of processing, such as written procedure, in administrative proceedings. That is certainly what everyone in this Chamber can see as a good endeavour. Furthermore, the proposal in this form would facilitate the administration of our judicial system. Now more than 80% of the cases of our Supreme Administrative Court are complaints from administrative courts. The biggest improvement in the current situation would be that in future, if the administrative court were to appeal against the decision of the administrative court to the Supreme Administrative Court, it would in principle always require an appeal permit. At the same time, the role of the Supreme Administrative Court would be transformed from the Appellate Post Office into a genuine precedent court. So it is precisely the smart norm I mentioned at the outset. Mr President! Effective but high-quality court proceedings without undue delay are in the interests of society as a whole. We already have billions of euros of investment in various complaint processes. That is why we need this type of change, and that is why I am in favour of a thorough but rapid committee reading of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u9	Madam President! It is a good thing that the judicial procedure in administrative matters should be speeded up, and I warmly support that. It is quite obvious, as Mrs Wallinheim said in her own speech, that a huge number of projects are standing in court when unnecessary complaints are made about administrative rights and then stand either in the administrative court or in the Supreme Administrative Court. In my view, it is a very negative phenomenon for the development of society that one complaint can stop a major project with positive employment effects, for example, or that, for example, it cannot be the case that a person has a different opinion about it. It must be borne in mind, however, that the basic idea of democracy is that the majority of people have the objective of developing a society, and, for example, a road project that is necessary for the development of a region can stand in court for years without any reasonable reason — just because someone wants to write a complaint and an onion. It must be remembered that filing a complaint to the administrative court today only pays a stamp, and then when the decision comes, its redemption fee is very small. It could also be pointed out in the committee when dealing with this law that the payment would be set at a level that would reduce some of the unnecessary complaints. After all, the aim of Prime Minister Sipilä's government has clearly been to dismantle red tape, and I hope that this bill will do so, but it would be important for us to understand in this country that unnecessary complaints cause enormous damage, and now that we have finally achieved positive growth in employment development, it would also be good to have this same growth in order to get legislation on the administrative side, to speed up the handling of unnecessary complaints and, above all, to prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u10	Mr President! The adoption of a new law to replace the old and familiar administrative law is a major and ambitious reform. One of the aims of the law is to have a better and clearer legal language. Too broad articles and lack of interpretation cause problems with the predictability of justice and the equal treatment of people. A key and most significant change in the current situation would be the need, in principle, for an appeal permit to change the administrative court’s decision to the Supreme Administrative Court. This would entail a significant change in the role of the Supreme Administrative Court. It would become more and more clear a preliminary ruling court such as the Supreme Court. Accelerating judicial processes is the right and good goal, but at the same time, we must of course ensure that people are granted legal protection. The Administrative Court must ensure that people's legal protection is always ensured. So there are only two steps on the side of the Administrative Court, i.e. administrative rights and the Supreme Administrative Court. On the other hand, there are three further steps on the side of the General Court, i.e. district courts, court courts and the Supreme Court. There must be less unnecessary complaints, and now a lot of work has been done to reduce these unnecessary complaints and make sense of this system. But it must always be remembered that the right of appeal has, in due course, been given to ordinary citizens to protect against any errors or even arbitrary action by the authorities. I therefore support this proposal, but there is still a lot of work to be done on this thick material.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u11	Madam President! Mr Heinonen said earlier, with concern, that we have had situations in which the authority has appealed against the decision of another authority. In this context, it is good to recall the constitutional principle of state authorities and the use of all public authorities. It involves monitoring the implementation of the public interest and strict compliance with the law. It is therefore, for example, the duty of the State officials — including, where appropriate, appeals before the courts, including decisions by the authorities — not an undesirable course of action. Smart norm is not one where the statutory work of officials with legal and technical and scientific skills is labeled as unnecessary, for example. Mr President! In recent years, only 4 per cent of all planning decisions under the Land Use and Building Act in Finland have been appealed by the Ely Centres. However, 80% of these have been approved by the courts. The complaints by the authorities concerning the planning decisions of another authority in this case have therefore been well founded and necessary. These are only comments in connection with this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u12	Madam President! I would have liked to praise Minister Häkkä for bringing this proposal here, but when he is not here, then we will talk well behind our backs. This is the smart break-up, as Mrs Wallinheimo said. First and foremost, the Supreme Administrative Court becomes the Court of First Instance, which means that the Supreme Administrative Court can focus its whole weight on the most important cases. This limitation of the right of appeal to a certain degree is often opposed to the legal protection of citizens. That is not the case. The legal protection of the citizens and also of the communities is that they will have a solution to the issues that matter to them within a reasonable period of time, and in this respect we in Finland have had and there are quite a lot of shortcomings. All we have to do is look at the judgments we have received from the European Court of Human Rights, so often they have been linked to the excessive lengthening of court cases. An important part of legal protection for citizens and communities operating in Finland is to be able to obtain a decision and clarity without years of complaint ramba. This government proposal, which is now being presented, will help to shorten the process of such years, sometimes even decades, and this is a very important legal security factor for both citizens and different communities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u13	Madam President! I cannot fail to associate Mr Zyskowicz with what is needed and what is desired. It is really important that individual or individual interests' own projects or desires should be dealt with quickly, but now it is no longer a question of how and how to proceed. However, we are abolishing a system that controls the public interest. I could easily compare it with a driving school that teaches people to drive, and at the same time they would also be responsible for whether their driving lessons are such that road safety is guaranteed. Here we are in a somewhat similar sector that, given that one authority has all that authority, the critical review of security, which is the post-monitoring and, overall, that we are also monitoring the public interest is weakened. I trust the Finnish authority. If the law and the law's explanatory statement and the legal text were to require that account be taken of these and these matters and that consideration be given to that matter, and it would be open... This system, which was already in the past in the preparation of the government, would have been the more powerful force that this would have been the authority. As mentioned above, the number of complaints and the resulting delays in processes are very rare.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u14	Mr President! I myself have worked for the authorities for a long time, and I have also had the pleasure of working for the Court of Appeal, the Insurance Court and the District Court, on the side of the counter where these matters have to be resolved. I would say that this too long period of time is also partly because we legislators, whose role I am currently sitting in, are making quite a lot of binding provisions for courts, which in itself is a good thing, for example the Court of Justice's duty to deal with and settle matters, but the limit on when, for example, a judge is already transferred to the legal counsel of an individual is a fine one. We should remember that when we make these fine legal safeguards, we are also constantly adding to the workload of judges. All these issues will not only be resolved by tightening up the regulations, but we should ensure that we have sufficient resources. It is a pity that the minister had left because I would have asked about it when I feel that in any government proposal and in any change in the legal cycle and in any additional duties to the courts or administrative courts, it usually reads at the end that ‘no resource effects’. Each one of us understands that when a new assignment or a new obligation comes into his or her own work, it will cause more work to be done. This, I think, was the autumn of the other year, whether last autumn or the previous autumn, such an extensive study of the ability of court judges. It pointed out that there was a lot of work fatigue. There are people who are very conscientious, there aren't many of them gone, which reminds me of something like this, that the judge can't be exchanged during the main hearing without it starting again. I had an acquaintance, he sat on a case for several months, and there was a situation where he should have been able to stay away for his health, but the whole trial would have had to start over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u15	Madam President! Article 21 of the Constitution says that everyone has the right to have their case dealt with by a court or other authority without undue delay. Of course, you have to try to make sure that if someone is applying for a building permit right now... I remember a case, and there is still a matter in progress where an attempt is being made to repair a bridge over a small creek, but there is supposed to be some nature that prevents its existing dangerous bridge from being put in order by dismantling the old bridge in bad condition and putting a new bridge in it, so that it is safe for all transportation. There's been a complaint. It has been standing in court for years, and huge costs are incurred, and what benefits are there? No good, nothing but damage, lives are being put at risk, and those people whose lives are affected every day by that bridge are living in constant uncertainty that there is any point in building anything here when every matter is complained about and then it stands in administrative courts constantly. One thing when we're done, the other comes right behind us. It can't be like this. We must remember that in this Chamber, for example, on the civil court side, we have approved a procedure in which, for example, drunk driving convictions, which are clear cases, are dealt with by a quick procedure and, at the same time, when it has been established that a guy has committed a DUI, it gives him a receipt and, by paying it off, it is a quick trial job and a very clear case. That is what needs to be done. I'm sure we'll have to get into this together on the administrative side. We have billions of projects standing in this country. The job of tens of thousands depends on some drunkards complaining about the joy of complaining. There are a few people in each municipality who complain about the joy of complaining about the fact that they receive publicity in the local newspaper. After all, it’s a sort of goal too, I’m not judging them any further, I’m just saying, yes, when society is being built up, so such rational construction sites and various investments need to be able to pass quickly without undue delay, as the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u16	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää raised the issue of public interest control. This is part of this package of regional government reform and the associated Creative, State Licensing, Guidance and Control Agency, which is now being set up. In other words, there are parties, actors, who are concerned about whether or not they should: In the creative then separately from this kind of own public interest control unit. It really makes sense that this separate unit will not come now, but that Creative will have throughout the process, when things are being dealt with there, involved in this public interest control. When monitoring the public interest is involved all the time in that process, it can ensure that these matters are also taken into account. Today, the know-how of civil servants has increased. Creative is a large entity in which a group can take into account the fact that public interest control is already involved in this preparation. This will lead to better decisions, and then there will be complaints patterns and others will still have the right to appeal against Creative Decisions to the Administrative Court, i.e. that the appeal patterns will remain the same, and I believe and hope that, in line with this, we will make more sensible, better decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u17	Madam President! Even when this government started a couple of years ago, investments of around EUR 3 billion were in the queue of permits, at different stages of this long licensing process, which I described above. Fortunately, since the beginning of this year, there has already been an appeal permit for environmental and planning issues and it is now being extended. It makes sense to dismantle and streamline standards. Yes, although the Greens' representative may have given a little impression to the other, for example, there have been huge complaints about authorisation decisions, and complaints have been made about the decisions taken by other officials and officials, i.e. the different authorisation decisions taken by municipalities and aviaries. This is the situation before these measures have been taken. Kaarina, for example, gave permission for two digital tablets along the road. It has already been appealed to the Administrative Court several times, and I do not know whether the paintings have yet to be seen. I personally believe that there has been a good understanding of the kind of billboards that fit to be there, but somewhere there is always a more competent official to make complaints forward. We also have good examples: The Äänekoski bio-factory. At the same table, a solution was sought and the authorisation process was obtained exceptionally quickly. In other words, I am not in favour of any extermination myself, but rather of finding a solution, sitting together at one table, and raising the problem issues, solving them and deciding, and not, as has been done now, making a decision somewhere, one of them complains about it and so on. In my opinion, this is going in the right direction, and with this measure:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u18	Let's stick to the two-minute speeches if we talk about that seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u19	Madam President! I agree with Mr Heinonen that it is precisely the smoothness of the authorisation processes that needs to be developed and that history has been extremely regrettable that the different authorities at different times deal with the licensing processes and that is why they are delayed. When Mr Heinonen says that there are delays and so many billion euros, that does not necessarily mean that the decision of the authorities has been appealed by another authority, but that our processing has been incomplete and not done together. Well, on the basis of Creative, this is what is coming now and the will mode is it, but who will supervise it in the public interest then that everything happens so that no one will suffer? I must say to Mr Hoskonen that those complainers are not, for the most part, authorities. Indeed, those decisions do not delay them for individual residents or city dwellers. Yes, they are the work of individual people, but it is now possible that the authorities themselves are not in the process of complaining about this potentially and probably illegal authorisation procedure, but are left with NGOs, and we are in a situation where we are wondering whether NGOs have the resources to react to the fact that the general state is not really being assessed thoroughly and with good knowledge of the law, which increases the number of unnecessary complaints.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u20	Mr President! In my recent speech, the matter was still a little short when the time ran out, but there has been much talk of these pointless complaints, and I will continue as from where the person decides — that is, there behind the court’s table, this judge. It is very easy for us to say here that a pointless complaint. Well, after the process, it may be a pointless complaint. It is very difficult to see at first, and especially since we, in all these legislations, have very carefully required that the Court of Justice should supplement, direct and advise, so that we have not given the courts the opportunity but, in a very exceptional case, clearly unlawful complaints are inadmissible. And it is very rare that this can be done. It always requires clarification and hearings from the other side and stuff. We ourselves could look in the mirror and then give better tools to the other side as well and trust their experience that they could then be more sensitive to subjects that are the so-called pointless complaints. But it does not always appear quite clearly from the outside, even if it is written in confusion by a private individual. Sometimes there may be the seed of truth, and it will be found later, which is not quite the case. There was then talk of these court fees. In the Administrative Court it is 250 euros and in the Supreme Administrative Court it is 500 euros, which means that it is not necessarily that small a fee if the income is not very large. Of course, if you receive legal aid, you do not have to pay these legal fees — it is part of the legal aid decision — but, for example, in tax and public payments, legal aid is still only available for a very serious reason, and there may sometimes be a big interest. Of course, it will help if a person is accompanied by a person who knows the ropes of the process, and it is almost necessary to be there today because, with our involvement, these are quite confusing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u21	Mr President! The right of appeal is fundamental rights in this society. From time to time, when demands are always raised in public sections and elsewhere that the right of appeal should be tightened up, I think that is the wrong line, because citizens in particular must have the right to appeal, because many times it is possible that arbitrary action may be taken against them. If this right of appeal did not exist, it might have fatal consequences. The representative, Mrs Maijala, raised the issue here of the Creative and possibly Public Interest Control Unit or Agents. In my opinion, there is also a risk that this public interest control unit or agents will become, as it were, chief priests who would then have the right to assess the inferior authorities in what they have to do or do not have to do. And as regards the right of appeal to the authorities in general, I think it is perhaps right that it should be limited to a certain extent, that the authorities do not, in a way, complain about the decisions that one authority may not have taken in the right direction. That certainly does not remove that general right of appeal. I would read from here the Administrative Law, when we have a Administrative Law which, however, regulates how a public authority should act — and the Administrative Law — which contains the grounds for good administration, § 6, the principles of the administration: ‘The authority is to be treated equally in the administration and exercise its powers exclusively for the purposes of the law. The actions of the Authority shall be objective and proportionate to the objective pursued. They shall protect legitimate expectations on the basis of public policy.’; And it can be said that the public interest in every official is in itself every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u22	Mr President, ärade talman! When we talk about pointless complaints, just as Mr Meri said, it is difficult to judge in advance. But if you look at their percentages of success, then the things that individual citizens do go through poorly, the things that authorities do go through profitably. In other words, if you want to criticise a complaint now, then of course the complaints of individual citizens will then be those which, when considered pointless, are considered to be a fundamental right, just as Mr Eestilä said. Here we go. In the creative sector, however, there is a need to be careful about legal certainty, unless there is a public-interest supervisory body, because that is precisely the removal of an informed, expert way of steering decision-making. If you think that is a good thing if you want to justify it as if with this argument of unnecessary complaint, then you must also think in the same sentence that the judiciary in Finland is not working or that we may have wrong laws, because these are the very complaints that have been based on the law and that have gone through the courts. In the creative context, the Supreme Administrative Court has been extremely critical of this removal of the public interest supervisory body in the draft law, in the most emphatic words. And I think that this is something that should be taken into account, although, unfortunately, the statements made by the Supreme Administrative Court have not been given a great deal of weight in the recent past.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u23	Madam President! A person who served as environmental adviser to the Regional State Administrative Agency for over 30 years here recently stated that if he claimed that the licensing authority never made mistakes or wrong decisions, he would not be telling the truth. Mistakes happen. In the same context, it should be pointed out that, in the context of the preparation of these laws, all experts have stated that this current system of public-interest control and the authorities' statement of each other's decisions and, if necessary, their application for amendments is good and effective. The authority does not make any complaints, but the arguments must be based only on legislation. A citizen can make complaints based on interests, not an authority. When Mrs Maijala said that in future this control of the public interest would be involved in the whole process and in the preparation process, it is certainly true. That's what it is now. The authorities really must comply with the law now, and that includes the authorities weighing each other's actions and making statements about them. What will change in this Creative Agency in the future is that other authorities will be made unarmed in that, for example, now that the Ely Centre gives statements to the Regional State Administrative Agencies that this and this matter should be taken into account in the authorisation decision, and the Regional State Administrative Agencies well take these statements into account, if a human error, for example, occurs, then the Ely Centre’s official has the right and obligation to state afterwards that an appeal must be brought against it. In the future, this is what we're
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u24	Madam President! As far as this is concerned, it should also be borne in mind the fact that Finland has received a number of rulings in the European Court of Human Rights on the length of judicial proceedings that are excessively long. Just as the Constitution says, things should be dealt with quickly and a final decision should therefore be taken, and life could then continue. I represent the view in this world that I do not believe that the administration will improve this world very much, let alone the current difficult economic situation. Some of the countries where the regime has been raised to enormous proportions have already been left to pollinate the history pages. They don't exist anymore. Not in a country where government is just the main thing, much more than that. In other words, I would like to see the facts recognised in these matters. And, as I said in criminal proceedings, for example in the case of drunk driving, quick solutions have already been found there and, in very clear cases, things are done quickly and with that onion. It's the same for the administration. For example, the building permit I mentioned about a bridge when crossing the watercourse: it must always have certain permits in place before it can be built. Should we, then, go into this village to the practice of people walking or driving into it in the morning to the affected bridge, to the river by the longwoods, and then continue by another car to their site? Or timber trucks: Would it perhaps have cranes that lift trees across the river and then put them in another car? Hey, brothers and sisters, it can't be like this! Such sensible projects must be able to be quickly repaired and put in place, just as building permits, road construction and so on. We have to have some sense in our heads. I think that the people of Finland should have the practical sense to take care of such matters and try to get the laws in order that those broken bridges are actually repaired — and not that we worship the regime that seems to be very important to some. I think the most important thing is for things to be done and for people to be happy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u25	Madam President! I share Mr Eestilä's concern that such a categorical ban on complaints between administrations about the decisions of another administrative authority may lead to inappropriate situations. As a member of the Administrative Committee, I have noticed, as I am sure many other Members of Parliament in their own committee, how ministries and experts can disagree very much on the same matter. This strict restriction creates a situation which is perhaps closer to the right of a stronger person than the actual right which Mrs Halmemenpää and many others in this Chamber have already referred to. Perhaps, in the final analysis, it has made it possible for the administrative authorities to complain about matters which, in environmental terms, also take precedence over legislation and the Court of Justice, and I find it problematic that this should now only be taken away by the government. I do not believe that the administrative authorities themselves are to be tempted to complain. I believe that we have trained administrative authorities in Finland who complain if there are grounds for this. It has not been a problem in this Republic before that someone complains, but it has been a problem from the point of view of the problem that the times for complaints are excessively long and that the time for processing may be years or even more years — for example, now in construction, which has probably been one of the main complaints of the past few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u26	Let's go along with the list of speakers, which means no debatts at this stage, but get on the list of speakers for yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u27	Mr President! In the reform of regional government, it is essential that the ely and open functions are combined, and then the authorities that do not go to Creative work go to the provincial administration. So in practice in the future, when we talk about environmental decision-making issues in particular, the former civil servants of the Elys and Avi will be taking decisions together. When they take decisions together, then the potential appellants themselves will be making that decision, that is, when this whole decision is being built up, the public interest control is always in the process. Well, it doesn't make any sense to be there anymore. There is another person inside the creator who then complains separately. Don't you think it makes more sense to use our resources together? What makes sense is that there will be more public awareness of this, that all opinions will be public as much as possible throughout the process and that the various parties could already be as effective as possible at the decision-making stage. In my opinion, this is a major step forward and will improve the course of the whole process. Creative decisions can then be appealed by others, and A creative person can complain about the decisions of other authorities. In my opinion, this is definitely a sensible, modern and evolving activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u28	Madam President! In this regard, Mrs Maijala raised an important issue, namely that if the Creative Authority of the State can no longer appeal against the other decision of the Creative Agency, the others will then have the right to appeal. It is now worth noting whether these other government sector authorities exist which would have to monitor the implementation of the general interest, for example in fisheries matters. Is it the National Board of Antiquities, is it the Center for Safety Technology, the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Agency, or what is the government sector authority to which it belongs? There's no such thing. The province is a regional authority, the municipality is an authority of the municipality, but the rule of law, public interest enforcement and law enforcement are also a matter for the State. You can't outsource it to NGOs, for example. Mr President! The smoothness of permit processes needs to be improved, and the right and appropriate resources in the licensing authority could help with the pain. For example, the environmental permit unit of the Regional State Administrative Agency of Northern Finland has had a continuous shortage of six man-years. It is no wonder, therefore, that the permit processes for projects in Northern Finland have often been quite far from the target schedules. It would be a place for correction if it were to be streamlined, and perhaps it would be even more effective than restricting the right to appeal. But I would like to ask, for example, Mrs Maijala, which state body in the future, following the reform of the Creative Agency, could, for example, initiate an application for an amendment to the fishing obligations of the power companies, because that is a national task.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u29	Mr President! I'm trying to stick to this government proposal, which is a trial and related matters. I personally believe that the expert authorities must have the means to appeal. If this is true, as Mr Adlercreutz said, the complaints of the authorities are more successful — if that is the case, I have not personally seen such statistics — then, of course, it tells us that there is much of that expertise in the background and that is why they are successful and perhaps necessary. I would like to come back to that debate when we talk about these long periods of time. There is certainly a lack of resources on the part of the authorities, but if this government proposal is still being addressed, then we should create those tools for the courts. There is currently, for example, a restriction on evidence, which can be used by the court. One of the things that a few judges have suggested to me is that the fees for processing could in some way be staggered according to how many days the main hearing is. First of all, it could contain the fact that people would not bring unnecessary arguments, which would prolong the trial, or, as you sometimes see, a briefcase of documents and then the poor judge would try to pick up those relevant documents. It is not really the case, even if it is said that it is a matter for the Ombudsman and the lawyer, but it often falls to the Court of Justice to regret, especially in these indivisible cases, which are often administrative matters, and then in these criminal cases. They're very, very, very employable. In fact, when we sometimes talk about a day as a nurse and a day in kindergarten, I would also urge many to visit the day in court, namely, it is not as easy as it sounds here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u30	Mr President! Mr Kari was here to discuss whether the authority could appeal against the decision of another cooperating authority within the same institution. Basically, this kind of thing is—off-conversation is probably useless. But the starting point is that once we've been working together, so at worst this kind of appeal follows that there will be eternal movements: there will always be work. When rolled and lamented a little, and thus away, it may lead to an impossibility. And yet, if it is such that it is a serious violation of the public interest, we always have the courts and the right to appeal to others, so that there will be no legal murder in a certain way. Mr Halmemenpää has been very familiar with these complaint processes, and it seems that he has been strongly involved in some of the processes in his own civil life, because otherwise he cannot know these details so well. But my own view, which is probably legally flawed, is that although we have the law and it is the same for all, it does seem that the interpretations of the authorities are different. However, the complaint may be based on an interpretation of how an authority interprets something, since the law cannot provide all the details so that the answer to every situation in life comes from there. We in the committee have also come across the situation that we ourselves have been adopting the law, but when we look at what happens in civil life in the form of interpretation, it is almost the opposite of what this committee itself has meant when it legislates. We come here to the grey area of interpretation, and that is what this is all about. In this society we must also have the courage to draw boundaries. All phenomena and things have limits, and so must the right of appeal that we cannot give flowers to all flowers if the garden is not properly managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u34	Mr President! We absolutely agree with Mr Halmeenpää that more resources are needed for the Creative side. Environmental issues are an extremely important issue for all of us, and that is the lifeblood of all of us that they work well. When Halmemenpää then asked me how, for example, these fisheries obligations will be handled in the future, how complaints will be made, then the provincial administration, for example in Lapland, will be the organisation that deals with and makes decisions on the fisheries obligations of Kemijoki, and then the right of appeal will then be in Creative. And then I still have some confusion about how, at the moment, if Creative deals with these issues, this complaint package will be dealt with. I'm sure I'll get some more information. But then, as a whole, in the Federation of Fisheries, of which I am the chairman, we had a debate on this overall reform, on these matters of public interest control, and it did come to our unanimous opinion on the board that we are firmly behind this government's proposal in this picture. The public interest is for everyone that Creative makes wide-ranging, comprehensive, transparent environmental decisions so that it has public interest control throughout the journey. Absolutely all of us need public interest control, which is already mentioned in several environmental legislation. We must take them all on a legal journey, so we no longer need another organisation to monitor these matters, but we must all work together to achieve the best possible result.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u35	Madam President! Mr Eestilä spoke wisely, and when Mrs Maijala referred to the general interest, what if that public interest is not always the interest of a broad community or of an individual or, for example, of a party? Often, at least a phone number is dug for a nearby MP, or a law book if anything else helps. At least I believe that there are good authorities in Finland who are genuinely able to cooperate. And when the authorities disagree on something, until now — at least I believe and know some things — the authorities have been able to take those processes together for as long as possible and look at those differences and seek a church in the middle of the village, some sort of administrative solution. But if, for one reason or another, this has not been achieved and it has been possible to do so, the matter should have been brought to justice if necessary, and then, on the basis of the standard of the law, the solution that can be spoken of as a general interest is at least made according to Finnish law. But I am afraid of a world in which the interests of a party or, for example, of a government of a country will prevail over its public interest and leave it to the authorities only to stand by and follow the process, which will lead to inappropriate solutions. I will not comment on whether they are lawful, but it will lead to unjust and inappropriate solutions. In particular in environmental, construction and many other areas, expertise will continue to play an important role, regardless of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u36	Madam President! I must now say that this creation of the Creative Agency is in itself a very good reform. It clarifies the governance structure and makes it possible to use expertise and resources in a rational way. There's no dispute about that. The only serious point of pain is precisely this public interest, the weakening of its judicial control. In addition to the Supreme Administrative Court, Administrative Rights, Finnish Leisure Fishermen, the University of Eastern Finland and several Ely Centres, Mrs Maijala, the Confederation of Fisheries, as you say, has strongly criticised the limitation of the right to appeal and the weakening of public interest control. Criticism. And why? That is because it is rightly feared to be in serious danger. The regions to which the fisheries authorities from the three Ely Centres of the national fisheries authority are transferred are not state authorities, but, for example, the national obligations of the national fisheries strategy come from the state. The waters do not comply with the regional borders and must be managed by the state. That's why there are threats there, even in the fisheries sector. The province cannot and cannot assume the responsibilities of the State any more than citizens, non-governmental organisations or municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u37	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to the statement of the Confederation of Fisheries, which I chair, I would like to say quite frankly that this statement was a statement written by an official, and since then we have taken a completely different decision on this matter on the board of the Confederation of Fisheries. Then there is the second point: Mr Kari made very good mention of the fact that Creative Decision must not be a political decision, and that is why it is important that there is a single organisation in Creative that makes the decision on the broad shoulders, and then there is no smaller group that can possibly act politically. Creative must not be a political actor, but a highly competent group of experts who jointly draw up its decision. On these issues of fish and water: The regions will define the areas and waters for which they are also responsible. There will be a more precise definition of those borders, but they will be regional affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u38	Madam President! However, we must be surprised at the way in which Mrs Maijala suspects that political discretion will be exercised in the state authority when there are no political decision-makers sitting there at all. I would be more concerned about what power will be exercised in the future provinces, whose supreme decision-making body consists of political decision-makers. I would not go from using political decision-making to doubt or accuse the Creative Agency. The reason why I raised this fisheries sector is because there is no legal requirement at all for the future organisation of these fisheries issues in future legislation, i.e. the draft law. In principle, therefore, they can be arranged in 18 different ways. The obligation to do so will not come from the law, but it will then be in his or her hands what each province decides and whether the cooperation will be established in an appropriate way, as is currently the case, so that only three Ely Centres are responsible for fisheries matters at national level: the Ely Centre of Northern Finland Lapland, West and South-West Finland to the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi and the rest of Finland to the Ely Centre of Northern Savo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u39	Mr President! I do not think we should discuss these fish issues in more detail here, because, among other things, this division of tasks and activities is still in the pipeline. So it is still becoming its own legislative package as to how the cooperation activities between the provinces will be handled, for certainly these will not be dealt with in 18 of these matters in the future, but as it is currently being managed in three regions, it will then be regulated more precisely as to what is to be done in which province, and then how will this cooperation be done for the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u40	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u41	Madam President! This proposal makes a few changes in relation to terrorism. Terrorism is particularly challenging open, democratic societies, and that is why we are also forced to make these changes to legislation. Certain offences of robbery, extortion and counterfeiting related to terrorist offences are made international crimes and the criminal liability of the legal person is extended. It is proposed that the provisions of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences be supplemented and amended in a number of ways. The ongoing handling of the terrorist attack in Turku is also taking place. In his view, last autumn, human rights professor Martin Schein raised a translation error, which would be in our legislation, and this proposal also amends it. I myself am in favour of Matti Tolvanen's view even after this change is made. In my opinion, this change does not underscore the fact that it is a translation error. As Mr Tolvanen said, in such a situation we must also look at the original word and its meaning. As far as Martin Schein is concerned, it was stated in our legislation that the act should be liable to cause serious damage to a country, and his way of thinking was that it would only refer to the official machinery and the country instead to the Finnish society. This was also questioned by Matti Tolvanen, and I myself consider this kind of reflection to be almost a quibble. In other words, I do not see it that way, even if it is an unfinished matter, that this change would, in a way, allow the government to admit that there is a translation error, but that this clarifies this point. Of course, this change will no longer have any effect on the conviction of the perpetrator of the terrorist attack in Turku or on whether or not he will be convicted of the terrorist attack. In this proposal, the provisions on the preparation of a terrorist offence, the management of a terrorist group, the promotion of the activities of a terrorist group, the provision of training for the commission of a terrorist offence, training for the commission of a terrorist offence, recruitment for the commission of a terrorist offence, the penal provisions on the financing and travel of terrorism for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence, and the provisions on the definition of a terrorist group and the liability of a legal person would be amended to take account of changes in serious cybercrime offences committed with terrorist intent and the imposition of penalties on a radiological offence committed with terrorist intent. This travel: Many of these measures have been taken during this government. For example, travelling for terrorist offences has already been made punishable by this government, and now, in this proposal, the promotion of travel would also be punishable. There seems to be more and more of these points and, according to the interpretations of various human rights professors, everyone has to be included in this long list. One of this is still missing, and it is a criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation. I've turned it into a bill myself. Minister of Justice Häkkänen has taken it and has gone through it, and it is said that it is difficult to punish it. I don't think it should be that hard. There is legislation in other countries where, for example, swastikas and other Nazi symbols have been found to cause criminal sanctions. In my opinion, being part of a terrorist organisation, if it is done from Finland too, should be able to impose penalties in Finnish legislation. The second thing I have been thinking about is that we should also find ways to... Likely, in this terrorist attack in Turku too, the sentence will be much the same, whether this person is convicted of murder with terrorist intent or from ordinary murders to punishment. I would like to see even clearer penalties in our legislation in the future, which would not, for example, have the possibility of getting parole or applying for exemption. In my opinion, the 21 years imposed by Norway on such a case, for example, by a mass murderer in Norway, is a short sentence. Norway is probably not going to release him after that either, but I think that in this type of crime, the sentences could be a real life sentence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u42	Mr President! The first thing to say is that this bill is, of course, to be supported and to bring legislation in a better direction. It is good that the legislation on terrorism is tightened up and clarified. Now, however, one has to wonder why it has taken so long to finally prepare a law that takes on such fundamental issues, even though no one in Finland is likely to object to this now but human rights professors. It has to be said that this is to a large extent the implementation of the guidelines and decisions of the EU dating back to 2002 and 2008, at least ten years late, even though the threat of terrorism has been and has been growing. Why have we been waiting so long, and how can we expect EU decisions and guidelines on these matters and not be able to deal with such a matter by national legislation? How can it be so difficult and complicated to protect Finns from terrorism? I therefore call on us here in Parliament to consider how we could rather be ten years early in the fight against terrorism in the future than ten years later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u43	Madam President! The draft law sharpens the existing law on terrorism by introducing certain offences of robbery, extortion and counterfeiting into international crime and extending the criminal liability of the legal person. The bill amends Section 1 of Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code In such a way that an act should be liable to cause serious damage to a country or an international organisation. Terrorism must be seen more as a crime against society. The proposed legislative amendment clarifies this. There will be changes to the law on coercive measures and to the law on police interception of telecommunications and listening to housing. Some forms of gross data damage, serious communication interference and serious information system interference would be considered as crimes committed with terrorist intent. The cybercrimes involved are large-scale, particularly significant, harmful or economically damaging acts that endanger the important functioning of society. I think it is particularly important for us here in Finland because we are rapidly turning into an information society. We are entirely dependent on this type of automated data processing, and when these systems are broken into or sabotaged, it is likely to pose a serious risk to society. In addition, the current law removes restrictions on the criminality of the offender and the subject matter of travel, thereby extending the area of travel offences. The financing of such a journey will also be punishable. The offence of travelling remains a preparatory offence in relation to the actual offences. In order to prove and prove the existence of such a crime, it must be demonstrated that the intention of the person at the time of the travel was to commit a serious offence as referred to in Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code — how the author’s will is to deal with the offence — is a classic issue when deciding on the offence. I urge the committees to look closely at the corresponding laws and penalty scales in the other Nordic countries. I wish they were of a common scale, to say the least. Mr President! I support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u44	Madam President! Finland has drifted into foreign terrorism and has become the target of foreign criminal organisations, organised crime. This is demonstrated, among other things, by the huge increase in the number of watchdogs associated with the terrorist activity of the protection police in a few years. The present figure is closer to four hundred persons to follow, whereas only a few years ago it was two hundred persons. And as a result, Finland’s terrorist threat has been classified as elevated by the National Protection Police. There is a four-point scale where we have now come one step up. I do not believe that the world has become dangerous by itself: the world has not been filled with terrorists themselves or Finland is not filled with terrorists themselves, but politics chooses the direction of the future. The problem is that instead of putting out these different fires, it seems that the governments of the countries are no longer focusing on why this house has been set on fire in the first place. It is, of course, a good thing that the government in Finland has worked on condemning terrorists and bringing them to justice, but it is quite reactive in terms of terrorism. The important question here is when we will get to Finland a government that does not put the end of the bush, but puts the security of Finns first in its policy. The right of Finns to a secure society should be the most important human rights, and the implementation of its human rights, the implementation of a secure society in Finland, requires a sustainable and responsible immigration policy. When do we see that Finland's asylum policy is changing? As terrorism is constantly being discussed here today, I hope that the representatives of the government parties will consider whether there could be a connection between asylum policy and the growth of terrorism in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u45	Madam President! Of these so-called There has also been a lot of talk about terrorist laws in this House and they have also been expected. The amendment to the law is based on the European Union's directive on terrorist offences and the changes it requires to our legislation. Certain offences of robbery, extortion and counterfeiting related to terrorist offences would now be made international crimes and the criminal liability of the legal person would also be extended. It is also a very good thing to clarify the ban on chemical weapons and biological weapons. It is also proposed to introduce entirely new provisions, including a criminal offence involving a radiological weapon for terrorist purposes. That's good. In addition, clarifications have been added to the law so that serious crimes in the cyber world can also be regarded as committed for terrorist purposes under certain conditions. These respond to the challenges of technological transformation and are understandable objectives. Of course, there are challenges in this law. For example, it is now proposed to amend the penalty rule on training for committing a terrorist offence to include so-called self-education. In addition, training could also be aimed at preparing a crime for terrorist purposes. The objective must be understood, but this point has also raised some questions and criticisms. For example, Professor Melander has stated that it would be difficult to predict what type of conduct would be punishable in the future, because any activity could ultimately be punishable if the suspect was considered trained to commit a terrorist offence. In view of the recent acts of terrorism in the car, for example, a driving school could be considered as a preparation for a terrorist act if the law were interpreted in this way. As the law is being refined, it is worth drawing attention to the fact that the possibilities for interpretation of the law are as clear and as clear as possible, so that we do not get into strange situations. Secondly, the proposal also proposes amendments to the provisions on interception of telecommunications in the law on coercive measures and police law, which would also allow the use of the secret coercive or secret means of obtaining information in order to investigate and prevent the offence of serious cybercrime committed for terrorist purposes and the offence of a radiological weapon committed for terrorist purposes. A similar amendment would be made to the law on coercive measures for the detection of a criminal offence and to the law on secret means of intelligence for the detection of a criminal offence. Telemonitoring with the consent of the telecommunications address or the telecommunications terminal operator and planned monitoring could, according to the proposal, be used to investigate and prevent travel for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. There are quite a few details here that need to be carefully examined. For example, the Bar Association has already commented that the use of telecommunications interception and telecommunications surveillance could be extended even to minor crimes. This is where we should pay attention. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise that, while we need determined and firm legislation in the fight against terrorism and our legislation must be able to respond to the unexpected situations that we can face in an unstable world, we must at the same time remember that, when we want to prevent terrorism and radicalisation and extremism, we must also take care of the so-called soft means: strengthening social inclusion for all, an inclusive and acceptable society, mental health services that are sufficiently accessible for all, and so on. We need a wide range of not only sharp legislation but also so-called soft measures to prevent and prevent terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u46	Madam President! Mr Parviainen pointed out the criticism made by Professor Melander in public that self-study is now going to be criminalised for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence, and he mentioned, as Professor Melander said, that it is possible to see, for example, a driving school in this light. I personally do not understand what the problem is. If a person studies, for example, the building of explosives or something like this himself and his purpose is specifically to study for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence, what is the problem of criminalising this? We do, of course, have the principle in force in the judicial system that the prosecutor must prove the accused guilty and that the accused does not have to prove himself innocent, so the burden of proof, of course, rests with the prosecutor. And if a person has visited a car school or a network to look at the instructions to build a bomb, even in these crimes, what is at stake here, the prosecutor must prove that it has been committed for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. Well, if it, for example the self-study of bomb-making guidelines, has taken place for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence, then, Representative Olli-Son Parviainen, what is the problem that this kind of crime is criminalized? So what's the problem? Obviously nothing can be done here to prevent terrorism and to prevent very serious crimes without a professor from the Faculty of Law seeing major problems of principle. — — — — I'll continue with the floor. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! So I repeat my question to Mr Parviainen, who, in an acceptable sense, referred to Professor Melander's criticism: what is the problem if someone is self-studying for the purpose of committing a terrorist crime? That obligation of proof, that threshold of conviction, is, of course, what it always is, which means that the prosecution must prove the crime has been committed. In other words, the prosecutor must prove and the court must be convinced that this is a study for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. I have already mentioned that every time things like this are dealt with, there will be a so-called human rights lawyer or another professor of the Faculty of Law to criticise and reflect on the fact that it is not just a criminal who is at risk of legal protection. Let me give you an example of how years ago we were dealing here with the criminalisation of the preparation of such serious crimes. And that has been the case since then, and, for example, in the light of press reports, such a murder attack on a university, for example, was, in my view, capable of being prevented on the basis of this very provision of the Criminal Code. I remember when this was discussed in a public debate, a professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law was concerned that if the preparation of a serious crime is already being criminalized, what will happen to the legal protection of this robber? I believe that in this House we should be more concerned with the legal protection of their ordinary citizens than with the legal protection of these criminals or terrorists, provided that this is also ensured, of course, in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and the best traditions. Finally, I cannot fail to say that the so-called human rights professor, Martin Schein, mentioned here, criticised the fact that the police were given the opportunity to listen to telephone calls and to obtain data on telecommunications. It has been many years since then, and since then a large number of murders and drug cases between the underworld have been solved, precisely because the police have access to telecommunications identification data or, in certain circumstances, to telephone tapping. In particular, access to TID data has played a key role in solving countless homicides and drug crimes. And even then, so-called human rights lawyers criticized and were concerned that Finland will no longer be the rule of law, but we will be some sort of horrible big brother-supervised society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u47	Mr President! This proposal specifies and expands the characteristics of terrorist offences in certain respects, and the proposal must therefore be supported. However, like Mr Mäkelä, we must be surprised at the slowness of these legislative changes on such an important issue as the prevention of terrorism, its prevention and, of course, the safety of citizens. Mr President! Finland has been considered a birdhouse, some still do, but unfortunately we have not been a bird home for a long time, if ever. It seems that only last summer's Turku attack has awakened the government, albeit very late. It must now be remembered that last month, the supo has pointed out and reminded us that there is an increased threat to terrorism in Finland. In addition, as many as 10,000 illegal residents move freely in Finland, and the number has increased exponentially over the past few years. In view of the fact that the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, said that some of these people may be radicalised and that there are hundreds of people already monitoring the aid, the situation has progressed very seriously in a very short period of time and, of course, this small change in the law will not solve it, even if it is a step in the right direction. Mr President! I believe that, in addition to this draft law, we will need a more comprehensive and structured immigration policy, which will ultimately work. That is what we Finns have on many occasions raised here in Parliament and we will continue to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u48	Madam President! I would like to respond to Mr Zyskowicz's bold speech. Indeed, it is perhaps right to begin by saying that I am not opposed to this legislation in any case and I think it is necessary, but I want to assume that, when we legislate and listen to a lot of different voices, we will see what we want to do in this law and we will also ensure that the interpretation of the law in the future in the judicial system is as good and complete as possible. I entirely agree with Mr Zyskowicz on this, or that is not the opinion that the obligation of proof lies with the defendant and that is what our legal system is based on, but nevertheless, the examples from the world also tell us quite clearly that, when we ensure and make legislation specifically relating to terrorism, we need to have a balanced consultation of different views, even when they may irritate Mrs Zyskowicz, as some professors have apparently now done. In the United States, for example, it has become quite clear what may lead to, for example, soft - controlled interception of telecommunications and cyber surveillance in its various forms. There have been very big questions in civil society as to whether the rule of law can finally be trusted. Surely in this Chamber we want to do everything in our power to trust the rule of law in Finland, and then we should also listen to the views of human rights people and look for perspectives for our own legislative work. I think it is our duty to do so. This is also strongly linked, for example, to the reform of the intelligence law, which, incidentally, I also support, but in which we must be particularly vigilant so that we create complete legislation, not only in order to prevent terrorism, but also in order to safeguard a legitimate and good society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u49	Mr President! I would also like to reply to Mrs Zyskowicz: there is no specific right of ordinary people and the rights of robbers, which should be put against each other. There are only one and only rights that apply to all of us, regardless of the degree of our looting. We have had an exceptionally strong historical rule of law for an exceptionally long period of peace, and I think that there are quite a few people in this Chamber who forget that this is a state of emergency. We have no guarantee that things will remain the same in the future. The central reason why all this very difficult human rights apparade has been created is precisely that we have at least some sort of anal, some sort of security at the point when things start to go wrong. For example, even now, when asylum seekers came here in 2015 and subsequent events and decision-making have been a great example of the fact that when the judgment of political decision-makers is not entirely in order, it is good that we even have the Constitution and the international human rights treaties that little limit the fact that no panic decisions are being taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u52	Madam President! I would like to respond to Mrs Parviainen's pertinent reply. He said that it is important to stress now that we should listen to these suspicious imports and to the various parties with a sensitive ear. I say that, Mr Parviainen, you do not have to worry at all. In these matters, both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs listen to these so-called human rights lawyers and other legal scientists with a very sensitive ear, and I am absolutely convinced that Professor Melander, who has spoken, will be consulted both on this matter and on the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As a good example of this sensitive ear consultation, I mention the fact that we were dealing with alcohol law. It was quite reasonable to say that it would be criminalized when a person goes to a restaurant or a liquor store on another person’s papers and cheats a liquor store salesman or a restaurant waiter. When these lawyers were horrified by the fact that this actually applies to people between the ages of 15 and 17 and could lead to one of them being fined for this kind of cheating, and this came out strongly in the opinion of both the Legal Committee and the Constitutional Committee, did the Committee on Social Affairs and Health not decide that these poor children should not be criminalised for cheating Alko's seller or restaurant waiter. In other words, when the government argued that it was forbidden to appear on false papers and deceive people, then the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and then the unanimous parliament decided that it was not wrong, there should be no punishment for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u53	Madam President! I have to say that I am exceptionally united with Mrs Zyskowicz in her explanatory statement in this proposal: clear examples of how, in my opinion, the rule of law should work. This kind of equal thing, that criminals and terrorists and all are in an equal position, is pretty amazing, such a call that we could not stand up for those people who are victims, but consider factors to defend more strongly. In this respect, I strongly agree with Mr Zyskowicz. It has become clear here that we have been living in a peaceful country for a long time. That is true, but it must be remembered that it was only about 70 years ago — that it is not a terrible long time, it is a few generations — when even here there were unstable conditions. A hundred years ago there were, could you say, quite terrible conditions in Finland. That we must have the courage to defend this rule of law here, as Mrs Zyskowicz has done very well here today, in my opinion. The Intelligence Act came up for discussion. This is probably a good basis for discussion, too, when the Intelligence Act comes into this room. Even then, I believe that we must give the authorities the rights they need in order to prevent and combat these crimes and, even then, to be on the side of the victim or the target and not on the side of the offender.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u54	Mr President! As a comment to Mr Kontula's speech, those things started to go wrong considerably before this asylum crisis. That asylum crisis was only a symptom of things going wrong, because, after all, things are very wrong where hundreds of thousands of international migrations across Europe run contrary to all international agreements, and things are really wrong when tens of thousands of unknown people travel to Finland, mainly young men, of whom hundreds are currently being watched because of terrorist ties. Something should and must be done to ensure that this never happens again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u55	Madam President! An important piece of legislation on an important issue. I have been given seven years in the Administrative Committee and in the Defence Committee, and these are issues which unite both committees. It is a pleasure to note that overall security and national security are now being talked about together, not separately, not separately from external security or separately from internal security. This is a very good and necessary change in such a parliamentary language in this house, and it will also be able to talk about common resources. Just as you read the main content of this proposal, you can see that this division has also gone through the ministries at the preparatory tables. No longer will we divide, no longer will security be silod into external and internal. There are several different points here that I thought I would deal with, but when I got into the Chamber only at the end of this period, it may be that if one of the honourable Members asks to speak, then perhaps I will also ask for the floor myself. However, I would like to raise one point specifically with regard to the harassment of information systems, among other things. There is a reference here to the criminalisation of the harassment of information systems for terrorist purposes, and I consider this to be a good and necessary point of view. The information systems are at their worst able to shut down entire cities with cyber attacks, to pose a serious threat, for example, to people who are the subject of medical care, on the operating tables as well as to people who are in the vicinity of drug administration or other similar information systems. It is possible to do terrorist acts to endanger life and security. The question is: have we still had the legislation in place today, as far as this ict world is concerned?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u56	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here, and I am happy to continue with it when I understand that the long-standing member of the Administrative Committee, Mr Mika Kari, a social democrat whom I have appreciated, who often seems to have very sound ideas on the security of our country, would like to make a further point. I would like to hear these views.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u57	Madam President! Briefly perhaps more about this training in terrorist crimes also: In this area of national security a lot is talked about such hate crimes or is also used in political rhetoric on foreign suspects that foreign terrorists become terrorists that endanger national security. Unfortunately, that is also the case. In this respect, in the Committee on Administrative Affairs this period, during the previous Minister for the Interior, training for terrorist purposes or overriding travel for terrorist purposes was already made illegal and criminalised — a step in the right direction. Now in this bill, as I quickly read it, it seems that it is even smarter to close loopholes in previous legislation so that international terrorists who have been able to leap from one country to another for these purposes will hopefully be forced to jump over Finland when this legislation enters into force. I hope that international cooperation, at least at European level, will be able to make legislation that prevents and prevents travel, training and the collection of funds for terrorist purposes. These measures are also very effective in preventing local extremism and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u58	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u59	Mr President! We have in our hands the amendment of the Antiquities Act, and if we consider that the law in force is more than 50 years ago and only minor changes have been made, then we should look again when it is understandable that, for example, the administrative procedure has changed and the operating environment has changed. However, we are dealing here with a very important part of our national property, our irreplaceable history, and this history must also be cherished for future generations. I think this is a good example of how we are now trying to simplify our decision-making and administration in every way, and this is a very good example of de-bureaucraticism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u60	Madam President! As Mrs Parviainen said earlier, this law is almost an ancient memory. I'm glad we're doing this update now. In fact, why I asked for this speech is that I myself have been a history enthusiast since I was a little boy and have also been somewhat enthusiastic about metal exploration as a hobby. Metal exploration as a hobby has, for the most part, achieved good results in Finland, although the resources have been small when it has been done responsibly. But then we have examples, such as this case of Raasepori, in which an area that had remained exceptionally intact was severely destroyed, waiting in fact for technology to develop and be examined without being destroyed and excavated, even by professionals. That is why I think it would be good if, when we talk about the ancient relic, we were also considering a certain type of permit system for metal exploration. In Estonia, the National Heritage Board of Estonia, for example, authorises the exploration of metal with its own license. Switzerland has a permit, Sweden has an annual permit, and I think that there might be no need in Finland either for a register and a permit and the knowledge that this type of hobby is being carried out, because the metal hunters, the majority, are doing great, valuable work and obeying legislation, the Ancient Memorial Act and so on, but it would be good for all of us to be found in some kind of register through some kind of authorisation. I hope the government will consider this next.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u61	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u62	Mr President! The current reduction in car tax of EUR 4800 would be abolished in four stages by the beginning of July 2022. The reason for this is: The Act on Transport Services, which will enter into force on 1 July 2018, means the deregulation of the taxi sector. In the future, the car tax would be free of large unhindered orders, which have been accepted for the transport of at least seven passengers in addition to the driver, as well as school taxis. In its opinion to the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Transport and Communications considered that small unimpeded cars used in taxis, which have been approved not only for the driver but also for the transport of at least six passengers, should also be included in the car tax-exempt vehicles. The Committee on Transport and Communications justified its motion by the fact that the abolition of car tax subsidies would probably reduce the availability of these so-called Caddy vehicles for unhindered transport. According to the committee, this would be due to the fact that the resale price of these cars is lower than that of ordinary taxis, and therefore their life-cycle costs are higher than normal taxis. Mr President! The Committee on Finance has taken the view expressed by the Committee on Transport and Communications. This is due not only to the arguments put forward by the Committee on Transport and Communications but also to the fact that the market situation is new. The committee proposes, as the only substantive amendment, that it should be sufficient for the vehicle to be accepted not only for the driver but also for at least six passengers, one or more of whom may be a person travelling in a wheelchair. The committee's report contains two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u63	Madam President! The deregulation of the taxi sector is likely to increase the number of taxis and there will be more taxis of the type that have other transports than taxis. It is therefore not justified for a very long time now to give a so-called discount or, in fact, to abolish car tax on taxis, but to have the same share of this vehicle tax as in a normal private car. There has now been a great deal of discussion about the need to secure these transports, especially for society, and their equipment should continue to be good, as is currently the case. To this end, there has also been a suggestion that, for example, unhindered transport should continue to be of a higher quality and other quality. In 2016, a regulation came in which the regulations of all unhindered Invaks changed so that their conditions are currently accepted. There was a difference in the draft decision of the Committee on Finance to this proposal that smaller unhindered taxis, these 1+6 vehicles, should also be included. On my own behalf, as the Committee on Finance also states in its opinion, it would be good to have even cheaper taxis, especially in those sparsely populated areas, in the north and elsewhere, for example, at Kela's disposal and for the transport of people with disabilities by and by the municipalities. It would therefore be desirable to maintain this current mode of transport of the Caddy category there, and therefore the tax bases would also be the same as in these larger taxis. This is the most important thing about this legislation. Although also for motorhomes, one might say, such tax brawls were tried to reduce with this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u64	Madam President! In short, this legislation. Personally, I welcome the fact that, when hearse cars were originally included in this law, they were removed, i.e. their tax advantage will continue to be maintained. It appeared that a number of abuses had in fact led to a reform which would have significantly impeded the management of this important issue and the activities of entrepreneurs. I also welcome this and would like to thank you for rationalising and changing the motorhome site. There were points that would have significantly impeded motor sports activities and made the requirements of the caravans used there disproportionate from the point of view of motocross, carting and such types of hobbies. These changes are now acceptable and they are also working in a sensible way to prevent the abuse of motorhomes. Before, Mr. Suutari went over this taxi question. In future, therefore, the car tax would be free of orders, the school taxis, and, as proposed by the Committee on Transport and Communications, we added the so-called Caddy class here, which is very sensible in Finland. For example, in rural areas we currently have enough of such a Caddy car to serve a wide range of that supply. There is often one taxi that handles a large part of the transportation, may even be a single taxi, and then it makes sense to have that one disabled place in the car to be. Hopefully the same car can also be used in other transports in the future. In fact, that is why I asked for this speech — when Mr Viitanen is in the Chamber — that I was surprised, the confusion was great that the Greens, who are not now in the Chamber with any representatives, were opposed to this Caddy class in the Committee on Budgets. Their protest was not shared by anyone, fortunately not by anyone else in the opposition, but they understood how sensible this Caddy class is, and the Greens, who are present as an environmental party, would have wanted all the cars in the vans to be, in practice, large diesel trucks in the future. If we were talking about the Caddy class from the point of view of the government and the responsible opposition, they would have liked to talk about the Sprinter category, the big lorries. They would then have transported it in many cases to the only person in need of an unhindered car. This is what the Greens put forward, and you would think that the values of many of those who voted for the Greens are a bit of a test when these diesel trucks were out there driving and transporting those individual people who needed the handicapped car. I understand very well that all the Greens are out of the Chamber during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u65	Mr President! It is good to continue with Mr Heinonen’s partly upset speech on these environmental values. I agree with him on this underestimation of environmental values, because in this case, in the case of unimpeded 1+6 vehicles, it is precisely small emissions and vehicles with much lower emission values that are involved than Sprinter-class vehicles. Of course, the Invalidity Association has rightly advocated that cars should be large, which could accommodate at least two wheelchairs at a time and additional passengers. This is, of course, justifiable from the point of view of the Union. But in terms of the province and the country as a whole, this need for unhindered transport is always for one person at a time for the most part. Of course there are service industries and things like this, where the need for disabled services is for larger groups and sometimes needs to get more cars on the same ride, and it is normal in situations during the day. But most of the time this kind of ride is always just for one customer at a time. As has been pointed out here, in rural areas and in smaller towns, this unhindered 1+6 taxi is an extremely useful and environmentally friendly car, and it is, of course, more advantageous to the entrepreneur, but, as Mr Kiviranta's excellent speech has shown, it is undeniably a rather bad business tool in convertibles, and in that sense this tax advantage is also justified for this whole category of cars. What is important is that on 1.7., when the law on transport services changes in Finland, and in particular it targets Finnish taxi traffic, this need for the transport of disabled people will be satisfied and the availability of these accessible cars must be ensured. After all, there are about one third of Finnish taxis at the moment. It is important for such a special group as disabled people to have access to the service at the time they want and, of course, also in the size class they want in these cars, and that is where this 1+6 car offers a good alternative. You don't always have to have a bigger Sprinter-class car where you can fit more wheelchairs at the same time. It's pretty nice and cozy to travel close to the driver and talk to the driver in this kind of smaller car. As a professional in the field, I myself have been amazed at this aspect of safety, because quite a few speeches during the committee's deliberations estimated that this car would not be safe. This accessible 1+6 taxi is a factory-made car. The safety of its car has not been changed in any way. So I think it's perfectly safe. It is a very nice car to drive, it is economical, and there is a passenger with good travel conditions. It does meet all these safety criteria, which is required in Finland for taxis and especially for this special transport. Now that this needs-tested system is changing in Finland, it is important that this kind of tax benefit is maintained on this type of cars, so that entrepreneurs become motivated to buy this type of cars and keep it running, because otherwise it doesn't make sense for business, if the same car practically costs EUR 15,000 more, if it is equipped with accessible equipment, and it has no added value for business. It is good that the government now remembers this professional group that provides this service for disabled people, with this small tax advantage. This is a tax advantage worth about 150 euros a month for entrepreneurs, and I think in reverse that if this same bill were put on for all Finns, what a hello it would be if a tax bill of 150 euros were issued to every Finnish citizen. Of course, a professional group such as taxi drivers is able to pay such a fee, I do not doubt that, but would this be the case if the state finances were to be corrected, it would hardly end the ability of this one professional group to pay for the correction of the Finnish state economy. I would therefore like to see Finnish taxi entrepreneurs valued on this issue at the moment, and in that sense this tax advantage of EUR 4800 is also significant. I believe that if some other professional group were to take this sort of thing, which means about 150 euros a month, there would be quite a hello and some kind of march on that Mannerheimintie would be going on. But the Finnish taxi can take it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u66	Mr Harakka would like a reply and he will also receive it. And Mr. Viitanen wants to too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u67	Thank you, Speaker! Mr Pakkanen is, of course, a professional person in this field, but his comment must, however, be supplemented by the fact that the statement made by the Invalid Association on these category 1+6 cars was remarkably hard compared to the joy of travelling that you have just painted. In fact, they would not have accepted even 1+7, but would have demanded a tax reduction of 2+7. The Committee on Transport did not hear from the Invalidity Association and, on the other hand, the tax section of our Committee on Finance did not hear the side which relates to the future of these transports in Kela. Since there are now two conflicting interests here, the Social Democrats have therefore wanted to make further efforts to ensure that we monitor the safety and accessibility of wheelchair transport in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u68	I have indicated the following answers to this debate: Mr Viitanen, Mr Suutari, Mr Alatalo and Mr Pakkanen. That's all, if I understand. That's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u69	Mr President! Of course, this proposal on the table is the result of what happened earlier, i.e. the government decided to liberalise the whole taxi service, which will be quite a hurlumhei-mein here. This is our assessment that this will happen. After all, the Social Democrats were opposed to such liberalisation. There has also been much concern from the taxi field itself that what will really happen now at the time of that summer. In other words, as a result, this car tax law will also be reformed, and then it will play its part. In this context, I would like to underline the fact that the SDP welcomes the fact that this Caddy came into this parliamentary process, but we have two impetuss in which we oblige Parliament to follow these consequences from many sides.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u70	Mr President! Indeed, liberation is something to which, at least for me, a great deal of answers have come and to which there have been duubies. It must be said that it is difficult to justify the government's proposal in all matters, so to speak, but this society is heading in the direction that freedom in trying and in other things will be more favoured, in the same way as in the rest of the West. Indeed, in view of the overall competitiveness of Finland, we must be heading in that direction. That's why I'm in favour of this, too. I must say, as was said here — the taxi operator said, the majority said — that we are now also taking care of the car tax, because there are all the other costs. That's about a percent of that turnover. Of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u71	Mr President! If we are talking about this car tax law, then the Committee on Transport and Communications justified its proposal so that the abolition of car tax subsidies would reduce the availability of Cuddy-class vehicles. Those big cars, on the other hand, are so expensive that it could be that in the countryside they would no longer exist. Now there are so many, but there are hundreds of them in the countryside. Besides, the message came that, well, then we go to Estonia to buy those cars, we do those changes there too. So that's why this is a good thing that there are these Caddy-class cars, too. I admit that the Invalid Alliance has not been very positive about this, but I believe that this will guarantee this level of service. Indeed, I have very much brought this message to Timo Kalli from that airport that these cars will be able to reach this discount. Above all, this is a big change that is happening in this taxi industry anyway, and this will at least ensure that in rural areas, for example, we have these unhindered taxis then enough with this discount.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u72	Before the debate started, Mr Pakkasta, Mr Kari, would like to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u73	Mr President! Here's your representative. The reference quite rightly pointed out that it has not been a year since the government trampled on taximen's toes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u76	Now, as agreed, Mr Pakkanen, a reply. All those who have asked for a reply have received one at least once. — Now you have the reply, Mr Pakkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u77	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in my own speech, I do understand the position of the Invalidity Association that they want to defend the most expensive and good-quality and big cars, because it allows them, of course, in groups to go this way, but it is quite expensive for society and for its entrepreneur, if only this Sprinter-class option is available, and that is why this Caddy class, the accessible 1+6, is a good option. The Committee on Transport and Communications also consulted the Invalidity Association earlier when this reform of the taxi law was being carried out, and even then this issue of car tax and access to unhindered cars became a big issue. In this context, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Finance — Kiviranta, Suutari and Timo Kalli — who in practice managed to keep this tax advantage on these unhindered cars, so that good service can be continued in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u79	Mr President! I was also involved in this matter in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which was so extensive and multi-generational and which also included amendments to this final report by the Committee on Budgets, that I should like to comment a little on these matters, which was discussed in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. In other words, the only change that was made and that went through this report was the Invataks of 1+6 people. There was also a fine-tuning of motorhomes, which the Committee on Finance then did not take up in this report. But it is a good thing that this so-called Caddy class was included in the fact that its tax exemption is maintained. Although Volkswagen Caddy is not the only car in that category in spite of its proven quality, other brands and models can be found in this same category, but they are all combined in such a way that they are, in principle, more cars than heavy vans. So they are more economical, lighter, more convenient to drive and acquire, but on the other hand, the transformation that is done to them, that the invatax feature, accessibility there is, is quite expensive, and it then does not increase the resale value of its car in a similar way. So the original arguments that the resale value of such a car would be the same as that of some taxi Mersun were not true. This is also true, as I think Mr Alatalo pointed out, that it is domestic work, which is now being done in Finland. If the tax advantage had been lost, it would be likely that they would have moved somewhere else, which is also, in a way, protected Finnish work. My own view is that, without this tax exemption being maintained in this category, there would have been a great fear of what the availability of these invacas, unhindered taxis, would have been even more remote. Yes, there are in the cities when there is demand, but then when it comes to rural communities, when it comes to the question of whether a taxi is available, would such special cars be available? Personally, I suspect it could have been a bad thing. And this is the view of the Greens against the countryside that they are proposing that this change be taken back. Have they understood what they have said? Is this an accident, or is this a deliberate act of harm, I cannot understand. Now, if we are talking about this so-called tax reduction in taxis at all, it is a little questionable whether it is really a business subsidy. However, other professional vehicles may not be taxed as strictly as taxis until now. In other words, business support populism does not work here either, as it does in many other areas. Now that Parliament has either its foresight or its great discretion, as I regret to say, wrecked the regulated taxi system, it is logical, in itself, that the tax advantage of taxis, if it is now to be called a tax advantage, should be phased out. Basically, if anyone can drive a taxi, it comes to mind that if everyone could then also get a tax advantage. Although it is not as simple as that, in other words, insurance for professional transport, for example, is so expensive that it offsets the tax advantage, that is, it does not make up what many people think a taxi company is. There is no air at prices that could simply offset this tax bill from the entrepreneur’s margin. It will both move towards prices and cause a deterioration in the car fleet. Mr President! For my part, I fear that when this hysteria is spreading in Germany and Sweden with regard to diesel cars, then very soon those diesel cars that are being sold out of panic so that they are not allowed to drive in cities will become taxi cars for us. This results in a direct loss of tax revenue to the State in the form of VAT, and indirectly in the form of a car tax, and these cars, which come to this position, are by no means particularly environmentally friendly, since they are Euro 5 or earlier cars that cannot be driven there in cities. But, of course, you get the status, that is, if we make such tax changes, they will have consequences, especially in such a global economy, which we should understand and accept if we actually make such changes. In my opinion, this might not have even had to be done, changing the tax advantage as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u80	Mr President! This government proposal is good, and it is good that the tax advantage is maintained for certain cars and thus directs investment in the right direction. I need to speak to the previous speaker. Mäkelä agrees in the sense that, while this is a matter of car tax, the bigger picture must be seen, and this debate today would have been pointless, in fact, if we had been able and had been able to give up car tax in due course. The two problems that come from this car tax are exactly what Mäkelä mentioned, namely that we will have more than 30,000 cars and they are old Euro 4 diesels, Euro 5 diesels, and when Finland has set these emission targets, that by 2030 emissions will be halved to 2005 levels, it will just run away all the time. In my opinion, it is not right that if we conclude certain international agreements, then we will not take the decisions in this House that lead to compliance with these agreements. When these old cars, an average of 9 years old, come here, they bring CO2 emissions here and there will be nitrogen emissions. The problem at the moment with regard to the car trade is precisely this example of Germany, where the Supreme Administrative Court allows cities to ban certain old diesels from being allowed to drive there. And Sweden made similar decisions: 2022 are going to ban diesels, especially old diesels, driving in the centers of the city. Now, from the highest political point of view, this house should become such a message to Finland that during this term of government it will not touch in any way the use of diesel cars or any different sanctions which will somehow lead to the German or Swedish road, because this is now confusing the car trade and people are confused and afraid of what to do with diesels. Such a kind of signal should come from this house, when the car trade, which started well early in the year, would go smoothly again. All these kinds of disorders come just from when people are uncertain about what will happen to these taxes and whether there will be some sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u81	Mr President! Here we have already heard who saved the entire taxi crew, that is, a few names came from the Committee on Finance, which then drove all of this as well as it was today. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Committee on Transport and Communications unanimously agreed that this would be the case, and in that sense the Committee on Budgets has rightly started to reflect on it, and I believe that the efforts that are there are and are well supported. I believe that this House also believes that we should look at things. When much is said about the Sprinters and the Caddy class, it must be remembered that we have certain things and that is our purchasing competence and the way in which procurement decisions are made and directed in a regional or local way, and then what happens is that what kind of vehicles drive the invade transport, which requires the wheelchair, and what is required of those operators: what kind of car are you able to come by? Of course, we know that there was such a small illusion in the Ministry of Finance's presentation when we talked about the number of these cars, when they really did not understand that there was more to this Caddy class than the Volkswagens. There was talk of a hundred... [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! Let me add a little more on where we started: we are given figures, how many cars there are on the Finnish continent, and these figures throw 500 copies. But then we came to the understanding that this is a little bigger than it was in the beginning, what was brought in in in the government proposal. Fortunately, then, with the expert consultations, our ears were opened in committee and we were able to see this scale. Of course, it is not the fear that these will suddenly leave the road, but as this fleet of cars gets older, they will leave. But now this was given a chance. Especially in a sparsely populated area, this makes it possible for us to have a service provider for disabled people who is engaged in taxi traffic at least with these regulations that are still in force — not to buy Zetor and put a trailer behind it and a haystack in it, so that he can start driving taxis in July, when only the safety equipment is in order, which was forced by the government by this Parliament and which does a great deal for this profession. I fear the next Christmas season when the taxi operator comes to the post when there is a line of 200 meters and shouts that whoever has 100 euros of money will be able to start making the journey — when there is free pricing. But that is what this government has wanted to promote. We in the opposition, and I know that many representatives of the government party, this decision-making was bitter because we would have wanted this best system in the world to keep this country in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u82	Mr President! Actually, I'm going to take it from here the other way around, as I was going to say at first. Since you referred to the ponies, I will tell you what these ponies require, what we will then present at second reading. In other words, there is a need for monitoring the impact this will have on the fleet of vehicles, especially in terms of climate and energy objectives, the impact on employment and the impact on social and regional equality, and the fact that the government will then take action if these problems arise. Then, of course, the second effort is based on this well-founded concern of the Invalidity Association itself, that it should also be taken into account and that the government should monitor the impact of the reform on the travel safety and health of wheelchair users and take action if necessary. So this is the kind of good ponies we're gonna play. In principle, I could imagine that these would be quite easy here, even unanimously, to bless Parliament, because when you look at this report by our Committee on Budgets, the committee itself states that these reforms need to be followed up, in that sense I would like to see support for these ideas. But instead, President-in-Office, when there was talk here of saving the taxi industry and everything else, I think that this rescue, which was put forward at the beginning of the government term, was not provided for by anyone in the taxi sector and certainly not by many customers. It is what you get — many ask where you can cancel an order, namely that not many people wanted this complete liberalisation and the complete driving of the taxi market into a certain degree of uncertainty. In other words, consumers are genuinely concerned and the taxi people themselves are concerned. I have heard so much doubt about this that it terrifies me what is going to happen. That is why, President, it would have been very important for the government not to have gone into such reforms. There is more to be said, but at this point I will stick to this in two minutes, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u83	Mr President! Indeed, this plot by the Cuplet leaves last year when the traffic arch and the law on transport services were discussed here, which is why we are now faced with this taxi revolution, which has also been the subject of a lot of good, well-founded speeches here today. As has been the case in this debate, these concerns and concerns arose, but it was actually known a year ago where this will lead, when this regulation is being dismantled, when pricing is being dismantled, and then, as a logical result, the fact that this tax advantage will also have to be applied. In that sense, this proposal, which is being discussed here on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, is perfectly justified, because when we no longer have the authorisation process to ensure that certain types of cars are available across the board, we will be able to ensure that these unhindered cars, both these larger and smaller ones, are found in different needs, even with this continued tax advantage. It is often referred to here that it is important precisely because Finland is a large country and these services can then be found on different sides, but it is also important for these growth centres, where we have been constantly short of these cars, which can then also carry wheelchairs. In that sense, it is very well founded that this so-called Caddy class was included in this too, in order to meet the needs for services that people have. Finally, this statement, described by Mr Viitane, which will then be presented at second reading, is also quite justified. After all, it is important for us now to follow where this is really going to lead and whether the supply will then be more focused here on the Caddy side or whether these two cars will continue to be acquired in a very balanced way, which means that there will be no
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u84	Mr President! Of course, much has been said about this traffic cycle for a long time and a long time and not always in very small letters, at least not in small letters on the taxi pole, where thousands and thousands of taxi companies are currently trying to cope with the change they will face in the coming months. I welcome this report by the Committee on Finance and particularly welcome this objection, which now contains these proposals. Mr Viitanen here well described the content of these proposals for a boost, and I hope that this correction will now be made in Parliament together so that Parliament can unanimously accept these two proposals for objections which are contained here in protest 1. This introduction of the Caddy category is certainly justified from the point of view of energy and climate objectives, and the report and the committee's objection are well documented and described, but I believe that the concerns of the Invalid League are also relevant, and it would then be useful to identify these views and concerns of the Invalid League in the reports that will be made after the entry into force of this law. I hope that Parliament will agree with these requests for clarification unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u85	President! If we go back to the past, then I myself was critical of the part of the Transport Services Act that was once about taxi reform, and I did bring it up to the minister and the government representatives, including the government group, and I believe that Mrs Pakkanen brought it even more forcefully. We managed to fix a lot of things in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, indeed many difficult things, but I am sure that this law will be clarified at some point. In Sweden, among other things, their regulations have been clarified in terms of wild competition and that consumer protection is maintained, that prices are reflected properly and so on. I have heard positive things too, especially from younger drivers. They've thought it's great that they're also getting into this competition. But this is the issue of car tax. It was a good thing that the Committee on Budgets did indeed take this decision. Indeed, we unanimously in the Committee on Transport and Communications raised the view that there are so many of these, we were already aware that there are so many of these Caddy-class cars, although not all experts seemed to have the knowledge that this is an important issue, how this equipment will remain in our traffic. As the equipment expires, then they have to be replaced, and indeed even such threats were that some operators said that they will then go to Estonia to buy that car and there will also be these expensive changes that must be in this unhindered car. In that sense, it is a good thing that Caddy-class cars will continue to be available in rural and urban areas. Indeed, these expensive cars, now defended by the Invalid Alliance, are fine, they are these cars made on the basis of Sprinter, and they have better facilities, they are slightly higher, including the entrance to them. Of course, it is their job to promote the fact that their interest group gets the best possible cars, but it is certainly not the difference that is so crucial here, even with the Caddy-class car this service can be handled well. Indeed, I am saying that this current car tax rebate for taxis is going one step at all, so that, fortunately, this is not going quite suddenly, but it is very important for this balance that we now have both those larger cars and these Caddy cars on the same line. I believe that anyway, for example in rural areas, such different types of minivans and cars that can act as both unhindered cars and also as chartered cars in rural areas will become commonplace, that combined rides, and this kind of car will be suitable for more passengers, because it is not worth it for one person to carry necessarily to a health centre, for example, or whatever medical station it is. I would really like to thank the Committee on Finance for hearing us, the Committee of Experts, the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and I am sure that in this respect I believe that such a future for unhindered transport of people will remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u86	Mr President! The original speech has changed completely in the course of this debate, because it would have been, you might say, a lot of ramblings compared to these obvious speeches, what has been going on here, especially with regard to Mrs Myllykoski. After all, he was at the beginning of the speech, but the rest was completely inflated, which he could not quite follow. That bigger chapter in the Caddy class was right, that's right. Against that background, I myself thought in the section that if we accept that the tax advantage should be removed from these smallest invataks, then they may gradually disappear and the large stock will disappear. This means that the purchase service in the municipalities and Kela will increase in the future, and that is what I also wanted to go there to remove. In addition, this number of jobs, which is in the Finnish basket industry, will continue to be maintained and will increase. That is valuable work, and Finland is very famous in the Nordic countries and also in Europe for building car baskets, and they are also being taken out of here. So that is the point of view and that is why it is a good proposal for a decision on this issue. If there had been a bigger, more expensive and heavier car, then there would have been these climate effects then, so it would have gone a little backwards. Mr Kari spoke. He is very much appreciated by me in these arguments, and he is right in many respects in general, but not in this case when he said that the customer was left there on the post. Of course, we're going to find out. According to the report, it was said in that way in the Ministry that new cars were registered the last time after the car tax deduction, i.e. the reduction in the tax on taxis, in exactly the same way as before. And there has been no feedback that the availability of taxis has deteriorated since then. So, on that basis, such a follow-up was made by the gradual abolition of these tax advantages for taxis in this case. Those tax advantages would also have had to be granted to those who declare that ‘the self-purchaser’,in which case the tax advantage was obtained,and then did not say a couple of years later,that‘sor,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no, This would've been a big deal then. That is why the tax advantage can only be accepted in the future where there is a valid reason, as when, for example, a car has had to be converted into that type of transport. At this point, my point was. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u87	Mr President! On behalf of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance, I would like to express my thanks to the Committee on Transport and Communications, which, in its opinion, had done a very competent job. Of course, it was very easy to take up this proposal, especially since we agreed quite a bit in the tax section. But this was a significant support in making our statement. Then I would like to say from the two statements made by the Invalid Alliance that the representatives of the government parties in the tax section were very thoroughly familiar with these statements. The situation was such that we then had to carry out an overall assessment and take account of this regional availability, economics and then climate considerations, and this led us to support this proposal, which has already been praised in the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Then the Social Democrats must be given special thanks here. They were in favour of these small unhindered car tax. These statements, which the Social Democrats have tabled, are all right, there is nothing wrong with them. Of course, even if these statements were not adopted in this Chamber tomorrow, monitoring will be carried out. Of course, we are actively monitoring the impact and implementation of this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u88	Mr President! There has been a commendable debate here on this abolition of car tax and the opposition support for the good government proposal that this unhindered 1+6 car should also be included in this category of car tax-free taxis. That is a good thing and, fortunately, the Committee on Finance found a broad consensus. Mr Eestilä gave an excellent speech here on this problem of diesel vehicles. If the situation is escalated in this way, as he described that we are starting to import semi-used diesel cars from Europe, this environmental objective will become even more difficult in Finland. This is also a very important issue in this car tax issue for us to consider that we would be able to prevent this kind of situation. Procurement decisions were also used here as a justification in the speeches. It is true that when municipalities or societies order these services for people with disabilities, time and again the procurement law is invoked. Well, the procurement law itself in Finland is all right. If it is correctly interpreted and done, it is possible to arrange transport for people with disabilities. But municipal decision-makers should be awake when special groups of these transport services are organised to use this at that point. In my opinion, this unhindered 1+6 car is in favour of being part of these duty-free cars in order to make them available everywhere in Finland. The problems of growth centres were raised here, and at least my own knowledge and experience is that the bigger the growth centre, the greater the potential problem for access to unhindered cars. In my opinion, however, the services in the countryside have been fairly well played, but here in the Espoo region, at least what has come to the news in public, this transport of people with disabilities has sometimes caused problems, and it is, of course, wrong from the point of view of equality. In this sense, too, I hope that this will improve. In many contexts, this debate has been referred to the amendment to the Act on Transport Services and the Act on Taxis that was made here a year ago. I'm afraid that train went. At the time, I was very critical of the bill, as Mrs Alatalo said, but the importance of this issue is well illustrated by the fact that the debate was then followed from the gallery with respect to professional brothers, and I can see that today a distinguished group of professional drivers are also following this debate and this matter is of interest. That is why I think it is important that there is concern about the Finnish taxi and its future and there is an open and good debate. We have to move on from here, and I believe so. In this tax treatment, which is the main point in this case, the first stage of the Transport Services Act required a level playing field, and in this respect this non-taxation is fair from the point of view of competition. But now the cars are on full car tax after 2022, and if the law is not changed by then, then buses and other cars will be exempt from car tax, then this tax advantage will remain in them. In that sense, there is a challenging situation for the future in terms of this level playing field with regard to the tax advantage of cars. Fortunately, however, we still have these Invaxes and unhindered cars for 1+6 people in this tax advantage and at least this is how this service and supply can be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u89	Mr President! The short hymn is beautiful. — We have to go back to what the representative has said. The shoemaker brought it up. You have to see that if the network of service providers is falling apart, it means higher costs for society. In other words, the journeys from the service provider to the service provider will lengthen and, as a result, the expenditure structure of society will be more expensive. This is a good thing to take into account. Although, of course, it cannot be said now that 600 cars are now revolutionary to the world, I think it is good to see, in principle, that there is also a question of climate, services and the cost structures of society. In that sense, it was a good point and it remained in my own speech, which then contributed to flying. I do not know whether it was a low-flying or a high-flying, when Mr Suutari did not catch everything, but, in my speech, I meant that the definition of the vehicle and the type of equipment that will then be provided in the future will be a little bit of a question here, which will cast doubt on the representative of the Parliament, who may maliciously or by his jokes say that next summer I will buy Zetor and put the hay bales and seatbelts in there and I will start running taxi car services in the vicinity of the railway station and pick them up as they are supposed to be. I believe that the debate has been constructive and very cooperative in terms of keeping to this point, and I do not ask the representatives of the government parties how you voted when they were voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u90	Mr President! I believe it is not only my right but also my duty to thank Mr Kiviranta for the polite words that have been made to the SDP. We are pleased to make corrections to the government's proposals for which there is a need to be corrected, and of course it is hoped that, with regard to this objection too, the follow-up issue can be promoted more forcefully together if the government agrees with the opposition on this issue as well. If not, we must hope that the report will also oblige the future Parliament to follow these changes to the bad law in this context. I would also like to thank Mr Suutari for his fine words, but I would like to point out that at least the feedback from taxi drivers to myself suggests that this taxi law is not positive from the customer's point of view, but it is not positive for taxi drivers, for entrepreneurs. I hope that at some point in this house all of us will wake up to how much is going through the laws that no one wants. I listened to Mr Pakka and Mr Alatalo and I have, of course, listened to the representatives of the opposition and the political parties on a wider scale in this one and a half years, when the matter has been dealt with in Parliament, and it seems to me that it was nobody who wanted this taxi law, but it was strange, here in the house, that it went through. I will speak and bring in the voice of taxi entrepreneurs in the Lahti region of my own region, and I hope that one day, as a Member of Parliament, I will be able to sit in this house when, hopefully, repairs are made. The Swedes showed by their own taxi laws that this system does not work in Sweden and that Swedish citizens and entrepreneurs suffer from this, and now the same mistakes are made in Finland. Let's fix them one piece at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u91	Mr President! As a resident of my childhood in the turbulent, although I am a hundred, one more thing has to be raised — but now Mr. Suutari must not burp his chest very much: There was also one very important aspect of your speech, namely that this will also have an impact on employment. When I come from the apostates, where I spent my childhood, there is now a company called Rego — well, is it now a company set up by my schoolmate with his brother — and they do a lot. We know that in this country we have vehicle skills, so that we have the task of changing alarm vehicles, that it employs a great deal in this country, and that is important know-how. We are, as Mr Suutari said, a capable country and we have skilled staff and good entrepreneurs to take this issue forward. It is also a sign that the business side is also appreciated by this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u92	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kari for this speech. I could say openly that this abolition of car tax subsidies is not, of course, an easy matter for the representatives of the government parties, and it was a good thing that the Social Democrats did not challenge this fundamental issue here, but in practice, with the exception of those proposals for statements, they were entirely in agreement with the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u93	Mr President! I myself would like to raise this point of view on employment. Indeed, there are many of these basket builders in Finland, and the professional skills are top-notch, because this Finnish manufacturing work is also being used in Europe, and many of these cars are being exported. This is important, then employment will have a regional impact, as is the case here with the representative. Myllykoski told me. Of course, this debate would be unnecessary if the car tax had been completely abolished in Finland and all the car tax matters, and this abolition of car tax is something that has not been unanimous in any way in this Chamber. There were proposals from the government parties, and there was a lot of opposition to it all over Finland, all over the opposition and the government parties, that this car tax debate should be held. If it were anything like this debate, I think there would be no problems of this kind. The second point is when Mr Kari mentioned that no one wants this reform of the taxi law here. To be honest, there has been a great deal of desire in this Chamber for reform of the taxi law. Twenty years, since the mid-1990s, this issue has been raised here, and now the majority of this Parliament, and especially in the opposition, have been very pleased with this reform of the taxi law. If you are wondering what discussions have been taking place here in the context of business support discussions, the taxi reform was taken on many occasions as an example of how good a reform is that the needs test was removed. Yes, here the younger knee has been very willing to change this issue, so in reality there are no defenders of the current taxi system, the good Finnish system, but a fraction of the rest. Unfortunately, this has been the case, but life is moving forward and a new way of doing things. At least that's my motto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u94	Mr President! When Mr Kari mentioned here — or was it Myllykoski, sorry — about the situation in Sweden, it must be said that, of course, in Sweden at the beginning, this service was tilted and there were few challenges in the availability of taxis, but at present I have the impression that in Sweden this issue is working quite professionally and taxis are available and that the prices have also developed normally, so that there has been no fear of what was sometimes feared — development in the last three years. Of course, the best thing would be for this Finnish speciality, the car tax, to be abolished altogether, and that would be the solution in this matter. So we still have something to do with this as we move forward towards freedom.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u95	Mr President! I think I was the one who brought up this example of Sweden. When I was talking to a representative of the Swedish taxi association — I think he was the chairman of the taxi association from Sweden — when the Finnish parties or taxi days of the Taxi Federation were held in Lahti, I talked a few words about it, then the Swedish taxi companies were extremely concerned, not only about their own business, but also about customers who are going to be on a roll that does not quite know exactly what price the day's journey to the pharmacy or to the store or to other services will be made and the type of driver, the type of safety in that transport is, and so on, not to mention the equipment, i.e. whether the car is just a cart and a stroller. But even for Mr Pakkanen on these greens: of course, I am not an expert in the field when I am not a member of the party in question, let alone a representative here, but perhaps this old taxi system is a little needed and may well be thought of. The further from this green bubble in the capital region, in everyday reality in the sparsely populated areas, in small towns, in rural areas, the more everyday it will be to get a taxi to do daily business in the future. It does not save much if there is no competition in the area, there are no entrepreneurs and there are no operators in the area, and the services thus run further away. Here in the capital region, problems are not the same as in sparsely populated areas, nor in the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u96	Mr President! In response to Mr Karin's recent speech, I am sure that this is the case, that the new taxi law has its own risk factors in terms of how it affects the availability of taxi services in rural areas, precisely as a result of the removal of this station and on-call obligation, but on the other hand, there is also the aspect of the fact that no one has ever been forced to apply for permits for taxis in the past. In other words, there are many rural municipalities with unrequested taxi licenses, and there is no need to be even rural ones. If I have not misunderstood, my own residence, which is, however, the regional centre of the county centre, would at least at some point have had unappreciated taxi licenses, which is not so brilliant to date. It is difficult to say whether the taxi reform is making this issue worse, or whether it can be improved. I'd be a pessimist if it didn't get much better now, but can it get worse? Perhaps at certain times of the day, a taxi may be less available when this is released, especially this on-call obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u97	Mr President! Here Mr Kari and Mr Mäkelä Jani have made good speeches on how to secure taxi services in rural areas, and those challenges are indeed a little different from those in cities. Unfortunately, this information has not yet reached the green, that the countryside and the city are in a different position. It is already the case at the moment that if we compare the operating conditions of urban and rural taxis, then, first of all, they are quite different. For a very long time, the rural tax is dependent on Kela, some of the time in school, but these normal rides, if you can use such a term, do not play a very big role in rural areas, whereas here in Helsinki they are the main form of business and likewise in other larger cities. Of course it is also the case that if you look at taxi-specific results, then most often in rural areas — at least that is my idea — the annual merit of a taxi operator is below what it is here in the core region, although perhaps here some costs will then be higher. But it is precisely for this reason that flexibility through the tax advantage in this matter is very important in order to ensure the availability of taxis and special taxis in rural and sparsely populated areas too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u98	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u99	Mr President! During the first reading of the draft law, we had already had an in-depth and complex debate on this bill and also on our objection, so here is just a brief summary. The main reason or cause for the protests of the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left is that we cannot accept any reduction in the level of protection against the obligation to take back employment, even though it is worth supporting the wider use of the apprenticeship. The extension of the apprenticeship contract can be promoted in better ways, in particular through better quality legislation. We want to ensure that the legislation is not misused so that people who have worked for a long time and have a higher salary are replaced by apprentices. The majority of employers will certainly operate according to the agreed rules of the game, but there are also other examples in working life, and the role of legislation is to protect the most vulnerable. We also proposed amendments to the articles which would ensure legal certainty for part-time workers by increasing the right of workers to information and also the obligation to negotiate in the workplace. We would like to stress that agreement can be reached at the workplace on the admission of apprentices, even if there are people working shorter hours, provided that they are not willing or able to take additional work for themselves. In other words, if there are people working part-time voluntarily at the workplace, then there are of course no obstacles to the admission of apprentices. In order to make this possible, we proposed that both the employer and the representative of the staff group should be able to take a negotiating initiative. With regard to this bill, too, it has to be said that the preparatory work on the law has not been carried out in a very high-quality manner, as the impact assessments are unfortunately inadequate. It is also worrying that the government, in the form of various laws, has gradually undermined the security of workers' employment and in no way, even in the context of this bill, there has been an overall assessment of the consequences of these deteriorations. To sum up, the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left cannot accept the continuing undermining of the government's security of employment and we therefore propose to reject the legislative proposals. At the same time, we propose that a statement be adopted, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires that a new proposal be submitted to the Board of Directors to enable apprenticeship training in the workplace without undermining the employment security of workers. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u100	Mr President! I support Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's motion. I am also in favour of facilitating apprenticeships, but the model chosen here presents more problems than solutions for the Finnish labour market and vocational training in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u101	Mr President! It is precisely this point, the question of the obligation to take back, that is probably what has been going on between the opposition and the representatives of the government so far. I still believe, having discussed and listened to experts there in committee, that the freedom for students to choose companies in which apprenticeships are carried out is in the interests of everyone, of society and its students and of all professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u102	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's analysis of what the result of this legislation is that it must be rejected, and that is the erosion of the readmission obligation through this way. We were very much in agreement that when the Supreme Court decided that apprenticeships should be fully compared to employment and that they should be subject to an examination of the obligation to provide additional work before an apprentice can be taken, the law must be changed and a solution must be found that allows apprenticeships to be used also in jobs with a large number of part-time employees and that there are now quite a few jobs. But instead, the government’s decision to extend this law to the obligation to take back disappeared, as it were, far from that original purpose. It may be that this concern is partly overcompensated, but it makes no sense that we are, as it were, renovating older workers out of working life and then replacing young people with apprenticeship training. That is the risk that this system is now facing. That is why we have made it clear that the government would, however, bring a proposal in accordance with the original wishes of the committee so that apprenticeship training can be used as soon as possible even in part-time workplaces. It would have happened in such a way that this law would have been abolished, but when it was not possible in committee, we are now proposing that this be rejected. If the shipwreck wins, I hope that the government will bring it down and that we will be able to adopt it as quickly as possible, but I am afraid that the government will have a majority here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u103	Mr President! I think it is very important to strengthen the possibility of apprenticeships. I also remember the debate at first reading, but above all I remember where this comes from. In other words, when the recession was at its deepest, we were in a situation where there were sectors, such as construction, in which almost all companies were negotiating. And if it is not possible for an apprentice to enter into a company where there are negotiations or people under a readmission obligation, then it basically means that these people can't make any progress at all, and I think it's a disproportionate situation. I am quite sure that when you apply for apprenticeships on the part of the providers of education, they are primarily seeking to apply for them in companies where those who receive apprenticeships also have a good chance of finding employment in that company after that training. This will probably be about companies with good growth prospects, and they will very probably not have the people who have recently been laid off or the negotiations in progress. But, as it were, for exceptional situations, I think it makes sense to have such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u104	Mr President! It's a comme ça and so on. That Mr. Satose's description may have been slightly lame to this world situation in Finland. It is precisely right now that we should be able to react in such a way that apprenticeship training is the instrument by which we respond to the needs of conversion training. In that case, we will certainly not train employees by way of an apprenticeship in precisely the kind of businesses and sectors where the obligation to take back is now being crushed in accordance with this proposal. Having followed this debate, which has taken place, I believe that the opposition's protest, which is now in the form of a motion for rejection, should be carefully considered now, whether or not such a fervent wish could be realised, that the government should look at one further step back in this situation. I am sure we all know what the problem of confrontation is at the moment. We specifically need the tools there for this conversion training, and apprenticeship is one of the best, because it is the best way to get into the profession, precisely because people are being trained at that particular workplace — normally. Of course, we have social jobs where apprenticeships are used, even though there is no clarity about employment in the sector and in the company or hospital district. But it is important for industry in particular to see that conversion and apprenticeships could now be more faced and to leave this obligation to take back as it is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u105	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Satonen that apprenticeship training is important and that it is essential to enable it, but it is difficult to understand the argument that if a company makes the withdrawal of people for productive and economic reasons, it would be immediately, in a very short period of time, the need to take an employee with apprenticeship training and that the company would have a genuine job to offer to this worker, because the period of reinstatement has already been reduced by the government in connection with the previous amendments to the Employment Contracts Act and it is quite short. That is why, in my view, breaking the obligation to take back is still an unnecessary step towards this whole. We have seen an increase in the employment rate of older people who have managed to keep their jobs, but if they become unemployed, then their return to jobs and to the labour market is still very difficult, and I am actually concerned about it. In our retirement system, the results have come from the fact that less than before than in the case of a full retirement age, and this has become good for the pension system. But at the same time as we look at unemployment rates, we have seen an increase in long-term unemployment among older people. And these go hand in hand. In the same way, the obligation to take back goes hand in hand with the recruitment of a new workforce. I would prefer companies to seek a solution whereby those people who are threatened with dismissal are re-educated and, for example, try to have those apprenticeships with them if there is indeed a need for a completely different kind of workforce, rather than an older group, as this is the case in most cases, moving out and a younger, more recent and often cheaper workforce is replaced, because it is difficult for an older person to re-employment. Although we face difficulties in the employment of young people, the labour market opportunities of young people or middle-aged people are still better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u106	Mr President! We discussed this for a very long time last week. That is why I do not want to prolong this debate any longer, but I would still like to raise concerns about this student status again. In my former life, I have been a student teacher in apprenticeship training, and from that point of view, I would like to stress the importance of the job where the student is studying being well and everything is in order. If the company has people made redundant for production or economic reasons, it may not be the best place for the student to study and learn, because the student needs good guidance and education, and if the work community has financial difficulties or something like that, it may not be able to provide the student with adequate guidance and education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u107	Mr President! In conclusion, we must of course see that we must create opportunities for young people to get into apprenticeships, because there are also situations in which a company can be trained in another company, if only business cooperation can be carried out, so that a professional who has been laid off or who is being laid off there can, for example, get back to work between two or three companies during the lay-off period and thereby enable one company to learn at work so that the professional skills of this worker, an apprentice, can develop so that he can then move to another company, which is perhaps a smaller company. In SMEs, there are currently no resources to ensure that apprenticeships can be fully organised in such a way as to enable vocational training in the workplace. This is our problem here, if the whole of apprenticeship training is generally considered to be one of our SMEs with the highest number of jobs, but there are the least resources available to enable them to learn at work. That is why, in this apprenticeship system, even in this debate, although I am a little groping on the sidelines, we should take note of the fact that we certainly do not want to rule out in the opposition that an apprentice has the opportunity to study at work, even if there is a weak economic situation in the company if it can be agreed with the staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u108	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 6 April 2018. The debate will therefore continue. Mr Kivelä, Mr Skinner, Mr Ala-Nissila — all of these are gone. Representative Mika Kari, he also absent, representative Heinonen, absent, representative Rossi, absent, representative Filatov is not absent. — Mr Filatov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-10-ps-32.u109	Mr President! That no one writes that all the representatives were absent from the proceedings, so I thought that I briefly support this idea in this legislation, that is, that we could have a family member who is an entrepreneur more easily covered by unemployment benefit. We all know that many attempts have been made to resolve this issue and there are borderline situations, but sometimes it seems that you would rather pay the unemployment benefit, even if it were pointless, than the fact that a person who is placed in an unfair position because of his family's entrepreneurship cannot receive unemployment benefit. In most cases, these situations come from the fact that this family member has worked there before, and when the company has gone badly, he has gone out of there and then there will be problems with unemployment security. Yes, we should look for solutions that allow entrepreneurship and unemployment to take turns and part-time and cross-borderly.
