ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u1	Mia Laiho, a medical doctor from Espoo, who has become a deputy in the constituency of Uusimaa instead of Outi Mäkelä, has presented his mandate to the President and on 5 March 2018 he has taken up his duties. - Welcome, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u2	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u3	Mr President, ärade talman! Parliament has now received a proposal complementing EU general data protection legislation. The General Data Protection Regulation of the Union is already in force and will start to apply on May 25 of this year. A proposal complementing and clarifying the General Data Protection Regulation is now under discussion. The role of regulation on the use of personal data in society is growing. On the other hand, this relates to the processing of personal data in government and business activities. Public authorities have an increasing number of information in different registers, and even in the interests of legal certainty, the use of this information should be regulated more closely. On the other hand, the full use of digitalisation continues to increase new business opportunities, which should also be addressed by Finnish society. A significant number of these services are linked in one way or another to the use of different data, in particular personal data. The purpose of data protection legislation is to define these rules on the use of personal data. There must be a balance between the flexible use of personal data and the protection of each individual's personal data. We must strive to create the best possible operating environment for the use of personal data, for example in terms of business and research. One of the objectives of the data protection reform is to highlight the individual’s own right to decide on the use of his or her personal data. The aim of the reform is to harmonise the regulation of the use of personal data within the Union. In today's digital society, on the other hand, it is important for public authorities to have uniform regulation of personal data within the EU, and on the other hand it is also important for the internal market to have uniform regulation of such a sector in all Member States. The regulation of the use of personal data is also, to a large extent, regulation of business opportunities. The focus of many new kinds of service business ideas is the use of data classified as personal data in a new way. In one way or another, a significant part of the digital environment’s digital platform-based business is linked to the use and use of personal data in the business. For example, many mobility services require for their background the use of the services by the customer of the personal data register, on which the service is built as a whole. At the same time, however, legislation should aim to enable the emergence of new types of services, while at the same time careful care should be taken to ensure the protection of fundamental rights. In particular, it is important to see how the data collected can be used by the controller. Mr President! The proposed Data Protection Act would form a set of rules on the protection of personal data in conjunction with the General Data Protection Regulation. The substantive content of the regulation comes mainly from the General Data Protection Regulation. The Data Protection Act would, on the one hand, provide for a set of issues for which the Regulation explicitly requires national provisions and, on the other hand, for certain matters for which the Regulation leaves a margin of discretion to the Member States. The basic principles for the processing of personal data remain unchanged. The General Data Protection Regulation will result in some changes to, for example, the obligations of the controller and the powers of the supervisory authority. In turn, the Data Protection Act aims to maintain the status quo in situations where it is appropriate within the scope of the national margin allowed by the Regulation. The Data Protection Act would also provide for a supervisory authority. The Data Protection Supervisor would act as a supervisory authority within the meaning of the Regulation. The Office of the Data Protection Supervisor would also establish one or more post(s) of the Assistant Ombudsman. This would be necessary due to the increased number of tasks and issues. The Board would be dissolved as its central role as authorising authority will no longer be possible at the time of application of the General Data Protection Regulation. Instead, the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor would be operated by an expert panel which would issue opinions at the request of the Data Protection Supervisor on the most important issues relating to the application of the law on the protection of personal data. The powers and functions of the supervisory authority are mainly directly derived from the Data Protection Regulation. The General Data Protection Regulation will, inter alia, result in the Authority’s powers to impose administrative penalties for infringements of the Regulation. The regulation leaves room for manoeuvre as to whether a penalty payment can be imposed on public authorities and public bodies. This margin would be used and the activities of the authorities would be excluded from the administrative penalty fee. This has been considered justified at this stage, as there are differences between public authorities and the private sector. The authorities are bound by the requirement of the lawfulness of the administration and must comply with the general laws of the administration. However, the regulatory solution to the administrative penalty payment will be assessed in the light of the re-assessed monitoring data as appropriate in the coming years. Mr President! In addition, national margins would be used to maintain the current type of regulation for the processing of personal identification numbers. In addition, national margins would be used in such a way that the provision of information society services directly to the child would require the child to be at least 13 years old. A child younger than this should have parental consent or authorisation to use social media, for example. The controller would be responsible for verifying that the consent exists. In addition, efforts have been made to ensure appropriate conditions for scientific research, statistics and processing of personal data for the purpose of archiving in the public interest. The Data Protection Act would clarify the right to process personal data for those purposes, provide for an explicit processing basis and the possibility of processing data belonging to specific categories of personal data for those purposes. In addition, some of the rights of the data subject could be waived under the Data Protection Act if such a derogation was necessary in scientific research. At the same time, the draft law has sought to ensure that the rights of the data subject are balanced and properly respected. Therefore, such derogation would only be possible in situations where it is necessary and where the controller takes the safeguards provided for in the Data Protection Act that are required when the data subject’s rights are waived. The rights of the data subject could also be waived in order to carry out the purpose of archiving in the public interest. The national margin provided by the Regulation would therefore be fully mobilised to create the appropriate framework conditions for scientific research, statistics and public-interest archiving. In order to safeguard freedom of expression and information, exceptions to the rights of the data subject would be provided for when personal data are processed for journalistic purposes and for the purposes of academic, artistic and literary expression. However, the provisions on data protection and information security would normally apply when personal data are processed for these purposes. The structure of the solution would follow current practice. The provisions on data intrusiveness would be applicable and their importance will be emphasised when the data subject is exempted from his or her rights. Furthermore, criminal law regulation would be changed from the point of view that the system of penalties will be strongly focused on administrative penalties in the future. However, administrative penalties may not be applicable, for example in cases of prying, and in this respect the Criminal Code would provide for a data protection offence. Mr President! In addition to the proposal before us, I will shortly submit to Parliament a proposal for the implementation of the Data Protection Directive. In addition to these proposals, almost every ministry will make its own proposals to amend specific requirements specific to the administrative sector to contribute to the requirements of the Data Protection Regulation. Parliament will also be able to hold a debate on what will be the whole of the regulation on the use of personal data in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u4	Mr President! The EU Data Protection Regulation is the biggest reform of data protection legislation for 20 years in the European Union and thus also in Finland. This is an important and wide-ranging reform, and this legislative package and the related regulation contain an enormous number of dimensions which would require careful reflection. More and more personal data are collected through technological development and globalisation. A high level of data protection can also enhance trust in online services and exploit the opportunities offered by the digital economy. This Regulation leaves a rare amount of room for manoeuvre for national, complementary and more specific legislation. In its opinions on this government proposal, for example, FICORA and the Legislative Evaluation Council have made the draft proposal the most important shortcomings, including the fact that the proposal is difficult to read. Given the wide application of the European Union Data Protection Regulation and the fact that the law is largely applied by non-experts, the law on enforcement should be very clear. I believe that it would be necessary for the government to open up exactly what is meant by the central concept of information society services. Data protection regulation deeply affects citizens in a society where information technology is developing rapidly. Different values must be weighed against each other, the relationship between the protection of personal data and privacy, including freedom of expression and media activities, and the need to exchange information between different authorities. A few years ago, the tragic fate of the Eerika girl was shocked, and knowledge of the child’s mistreatment was not passed from one authority to another, including school to the police, partly because of strict confidentiality rules for personal data. The implementation of the Data Protection Regulation must also strike a balance between the protection of the child and the right of the child to participate. That is one concrete point that the Minister has also raised. One of the objectives of the Data Protection Regulation has been to improve the protection of the child with regard to the processing of personal data. In its opinion, the Central Union for Child Welfare has seen as a problem that although the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act are central to children's rights, the overall framework and policy strategy for children's rights have not been considered in the context of the reform. How much has the government thought about the implications of setting an age limit for children and carers in 13 years? According to this proposal, the provision of information society services directly to the child would require the child to be at least 13 years old. On the one hand, the relatively low age limit supports the right of the child to express his or her opinion, but on the other hand there are risks in the online environment to which children and young people in particular are exposed. For example, a survey by the Finnish Federation of Child Welfare revealed that young people had been subjected to social media situations where their pictures had been misused. In addition, the Committee on the Rights of the Child has on several occasions highlighted the problems and disadvantages of advertisements in online services for children and young people. On the other hand, if the age limit for parental consent were to be set at a very high level, there would be a risk that it would have a negative impact on the privacy of children and young people and on the right to participate. Of course, it would be important for issues relating to children other than the setting of this age limit to arise when discussing this law. Children’s organisations have expressed concern that the terms of several online services are difficult for the child. I consider it particularly important that, following the entry into force of the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act, the impact of the law is monitored, both in terms of setting the age limit and in terms of solutions relating to the rights of other children in the online world. In my opinion, it is appropriate to require that the law also be subject to an in-depth assessment of the impact of children, and this has been done by, among others, Finnish Youth Cooperation — Alliance, Preventive substance abuse work EHYT, Federation of Child Welfare, Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, Media Education Society, Save the Children and Finland’s Unicef, in a very wide range. A child impact assessment would enable the rights of the child in the online world to be considered comprehensively and take into account in advance the essential aspects of implementation. And one of the problems facing practical life is that a situation can arise where the child’s parents live apart but are both guardians and then disagrees about the use of their child’s online service. Is one guardian's consent enough, and if that's enough, which one of them decides? Mr President! It is good that, insofar as the Data Protection Regulation contains national margins, the proposal seeks to maintain the current legal framework as far as possible. It is important to note that the Data Protection Regulation also increases the legal uncertainty and regulatory burden of companies. The Data Protection Act would provide for the future supervision of personal data protection legislation by the Data Protection Supervisor. Today, the most important decision-making power is exercised by the Data Protection Board, which would now be abolished. This means that the Data Protection Supervisor would have investigative powers under the Data Protection Regulation and would decide on possible corrective measures, such as prohibitions on processing, and would also impose any administrative fines. This has been criticised, for example, in that opinion of the EK for imposing a fine on the Data Protection Supervisor instead of on the Court of Justice. From the point of view of companies, it is important that the content of the data protection law as well as the revised specific legislation is known as soon as possible. At present, companies are preparing for the Data Protection Regulation in such a way that the content and interpretation of national legislation, which complements the Regulation, has not yet been fully understood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u5	Mr President! Representative Päivi Räsänen raised this case of the Eerika girl, which was extremely sad. I read the whole pre-trial file as soon as it became public, and there hasn't been another hard reading experience. There were problems with the flow of information in connection with the development of that case, but the main problem was that the last intervention was not done by everyone. This long - term torture of a child, which eventually led to the death of a child, had information for neighbors, school, social services, other authorities, but the last intervention was not done on every side. And what was essential in that case was that the limits of jurisdiction and the obligation to intervene were not as clear as they should have been.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u6	Mr President! In this context, I would also like us to consider and take into account the fact that we have registers of the kind that prevent people from returning to society from outside society or that prevent people from getting a rental dwelling, for example, because insurance companies do not have to provide home insurance to a person who has lost his credit information and who is in the credit register. This is unreasonable, because he does not even get it if it is paid for by someone other than himself. We must not allow the situation to reach a point where the various registers are so negative that they prevent people from living a decent life and, above all, returning to a decent life. I would like the Minister to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u7	Mr President! The representative of Mustajärvi was quite right in that assessment. Indeed, in the case of that girl Eerika, it was unfortunate that the information never went to the police before she was killed. After that event, a rather extensive clearing-up process was launched. I myself was the chairman of the Committee on Internal Security at the time, and we took it on the agenda, and since then a number of changes were made to both legislation and the guidelines that improved this flow of information in these situations when it comes to child protection and the need to protect children. But, indeed, this is very concise and relevant to this proposal that is now under discussion,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u8	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u9	Mr President! Good Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Minister Häkkänen extensively reviewed this proposal for a data protection regulation. This is a significant, large entity which, in fact, comes to an important place. We have an electronic world, digitalism, we have made significant progress over the last 20 years, and it is good that legislation is also being looked at from this point of view, from the point of view of access to information, but also from the point of view of providing information. Mr Räsänen raised the issue of the Eerika case and the related information problems. I myself raise another example: Some years ago, we had a desire to support veterans living alone in the municipalities. The municipalities wanted to help veterans living in their own municipality who live alone. They had no information about these veterans — the information was found in Kela, but Kela was not allowed to provide the municipalities with information so that the municipality could take better care of its own residents, honorary citizens, veterans. So it was a matter of the fact that one of the persons liable to secrecy could not give information to another person who was required to remain silent. We had to change the law, we had to change the law during the present President-in-Office's ministerial term, that is to say, we needed a change in the law so that the municipality could take better care of its own inhabitants. Then, of course, we must ask whether data protection has already been taken to extremes and too far. I think it is. In Finland, data protection seems to go beyond common sense in certain situations, and the fact that this data protection regulation allows for deviations and national margins has already been highlighted in this debate. I would like to ask Minister Häkkkäs whether situations of this kind have now been dealt with, perhaps in a cross-administrative way, that such absurd situations no longer arise, that we need to correct the law so that the municipalities can help their own people, whether they are veterans, honorary citizens or children who may need help with different problems in society – we have many problems. In other words, I would like the Minister to give us a brief overview of whether we still have any of these problems of data protection, access to information, which are related to the Eerika case or to the assistance of veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u10	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The protection of personal data is very important, and the protection of sensitive information, such as health, is understandablely important. However, I would like to draw the same attention to what Mr Heinonen mentioned above and to what point in this debate on Eerika: do we, in the name of this data protection, have some of the laws that have been shot over when the authorities responsible for secrecy cannot provide other authorities with information that would be important in order to help people? It may be that, in this tragic case of Eerika, it was not directly a matter of not giving up information, but it has come to my mind in the course of a public debate that strict data protection regulations had caused such timidity in the actions of these various authorities that, even in situations where apparently there was a right to report the situation to another authority, they did not feel that they could do so. Mr Heinonen mentioned an excellent example. I was here in Parliament myself to legislate, to change the law, so that the Social Services of the Social Insurance Institution could inform the social services of the municipalities who were required to remain silent so that the municipalities could help these veterans. That is what our existing legislation prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u13	Congressman Tolppanen. — Reply, representative of the plant, while Tolppanen is approaching.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u14	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Zyskowicz is quite right that very often these data protection provisions lead to strange situations. It is not always a matter of not giving up information; it may be a matter of not having a common, secure way of transmitting information. For example, when a municipal social welfare office needs information from the police as to whether an applicant for income support is entitled to be in the country, the only approved means of transmitting this information is by fax because there is no compatible secure e-mail system. We all know how safe a telefax is, in fact, but when it is sometimes accepted as safe, it is the only one that can be used. You can imagine how much extra work this will bring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u15	I would also like to respond to Mr Zyskowicz first and then to Mr Heinos.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u16	Mr President! This example, which was brought up by the representative of the plant, is certainly real, and he knows this when he spoke about it. I will tell you how it is in the light of the law today. When a person in Finland, an EU citizen, repeatedly resorts to income support, it is a reason to turn him from the country. However, the situation is that when such a person in Finland, such as an Estonian, continues to rely on income support in Finland, and the welfare support authorities see and know that it would be a reason to move him out of the country, they must not, according to the current regulations, inform the foreign authorities that this person here is constantly seeking income support and that this would be the reason to convert him. They're not allowed to report it. Instead, if the police ask whether this guy is repeatedly applying for income support, then they may say yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u17	Mr President! Some time ago we still had plenty of children on the way to learning these points where information was cut off. It was corrected during the time of Minister Virkkunen and Minister Sarkomaa, so that information was transferred from early childhood education to comprehensive school and from primary school to primary school and so on, but we still have the situations that can be prevented by parents. Of course, the question arises as to whose interest it serves, that one does not want to pass on knowledge. In a certain way, I understand the idea that sometimes starting off an empty table may be good for a child or a young person, but in the case of, for example, the child’s health information and what would also be essential in a new school, such a change of school in order to keep things hidden should also be prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u18	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u19	Mr President! Various personal data registers, such as the credit register, should also be processed. It is this credit register, the negative register, that prevents people in distress from improving their position at the moment. For example, if a person gets a job and an apartment, it becomes a barrier to not receiving home insurance. And when you don't get home insurance, you go to an apartment, and if you don't have an apartment, you go very easily to work, that is, stay out of society, live in a border country. This is something that should be taken into account in this society. We know that a person who does not have credit information is living in a rather difficult world, namely the only insurance that must be given is compulsory motor insurance. This is a paradox because he does not receive the car loan, the moped loan or the motorcycle loan, for which this compulsory motor insurance is needed because he does not have credit information. But it is an insurance policy that must be given. But is it not humanity in this society that a person who receives a dwelling should also be forced to provide home insurance? At the moment the situation is even so difficult that even if a third party undertakes to pay this premium, then even then there is no obligation to provide home insurance. It's pretty gross in a country where temperature fluctuations can be, as we've seen again this year, up to 70 degrees per year. In winter, there must be a roof over the head, there must be a home. It is unreasonable that we maintain a register that really prevents people from getting back into society. That is something we need to pay attention to. When we talk about data protection and how it is used, it is important that we look closely at what different registers and their use mean in society, what they mean to citizens and what they mean to business. Of course, these are all important issues. In terms of humanity, we should remember that if a person gets into a credit register, he may not have been merely having a bad time with his or her affairs, it may be that he or she has become such a bad thing as the death of a marriage mate, serious illness in the family, a divorce or some similar tragedy that has hit the family and has driven the family into financial distress. At the moment, we are readily distributing this register to everyone who wants to know about it, and in this negative register, the person will remain for two years after he has settled his debt in one way or another. I don't even want to start talking about what are the ways to pay those debts, because in it we can think a little bit about things: if we don't give any chances, then man is resourceful and finds ways. Paradoxically, too, we do give quick levers to people who do not have credit information. That's what this hall allows. But it does not allow a person to keep his home and, through it, his work, because we allow it to be carried out in such a way that home insurance is not given to people who are in the credit register. It is a register of persons, it certainly has its advantages as to why it is being used, but I would ask, Minister, that this negative side also be taken into account in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u20	Mr President! Good Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The processing of personal data shall be carried out with care. It is necessary to comply with the law, behave legally, properly, confidentially, safely, and personal data must also be updated in order to keep the data up to date. The flow of information is important. But just like, Mr Ben Zyskowicz, you asked nicely here: has data protection been fired from time to time? I also think that sometimes it feels that this is the case. And you told me here, as did Congressman Timo...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u23	Mr President! This proposal has been prepared for a long time in the EU and since then in Finland by the government, and it is good that it is now before Parliament. In the course of this debate, we have heard a number of tragic examples of how bad it can happen when information does not pass between authorities, for example. In my opinion, these aspects of this parliamentary procedure must be carefully examined and taken into account when the matter is being dealt with here in Parliament. Then there is the other side of the coin, the protection of personal data and the privacy of their data. In today's digital world, massive data theft may easily happen if we are careless, and this is, in a way, the other aspect that should be taken into account here: that sufficient credit is made to ensure that companies and public authorities also protect those personal data to the extent that they are digitally exposed to potential online theft. This bill has no minor impact. The mere fact that a resource of up to 16 person-years is being created in the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman shows that this is a big deal, and these administrative sanctions, which are planned for the next infringements — EUR 10 million, EUR 20 million — are also important. I am a little surprised that, in this context, the authorities will then be allowed to get away with these administrative sanctions. Should they, however, also be subject to the same financial sanctions if a mistake is made and the information of the citizens comes into the hands of criminals as a result of negligence? I think this would be a guiding factor that would also help the authorities to keep the faucet tight,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u24	Mr President! This is already an issue, you can well say, a mega-class entity at both EU level and in Finland, and in that sense we in Parliament should and should take this very seriously. But, as has been well heard in previous speeches, this is a search for balance overall, a search for balance. In this regard, of course, I would like to raise the point, now that the Minister is here, that we have talked a lot about over-indebtedness, the increase in the number of enforcements, and you have talked about this positive credit register, which we hope will move forward. How do you see this project, how it is now progressing in Finland, and will you be able to complete it during this government term? The second point raised here is that the perspective of companies in this new world is very challenging. There has been a lot of talk about internal information flow and its problems, but if you think of a small Finnish company, the SME entrepreneur, then understanding this whole regulation, not to mention its implementation in the company's contract world, is an absurd theme, and my second question is: have you, Minister, in the government considered training in this regard? It is quite clear that there is a huge shortage of skills coming, so how do we deal with this law in practice? My third point is that Mr Kopra has highlighted the problems that arise when criminal activities are carried out on people's identities, even identity theft. And since we have recently been subjected to strong cyber attacks, both in the state and in the municipalities and health care districts, have you in the government thought that all in all this cyber competence should be placed at the strategic centre of Finland as a whole in the public sector and also in education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u25	Mr President! There are indeed very many dimensions in this proposal and in all of this, and I would like to raise one more point which has not been addressed here. The Minister raised the point that this regulation seeks to safeguard the right of scientific research to process personal data, which is, of course, an important and good thing, but it also has its own problems, especially when it comes to sensitive and sensitive data. At the moment, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is debating a government proposal on legislation on secondary use of social and health data, and this ensures that personal data, patient data and data are made available to research and businesses, including the pharmaceutical industry. Professor Lasse Lehtonen of Health Law at the University of Helsinki has stated and reported that the medical records of a designated person in the United States’ West Coast hospitals can be purchased on an anonymous Tor network for about $20,000, and estimates that with a similar calculation, the sales value of the medical data of approximately one million people in Helsinki University Hospital would be $20 billion. So this describes the economic value of these sensitive information. In particular, companies have a desire to use patient and genetic data to profile individuals,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u26	Mr President! I think it is a good thing that this whole is being discussed here in a constructive and constructive way. Many representatives have described the difficulties of data protection and confidentiality. The fact that there is protection is extremely important, but it must not complicate the existing or evolving environment, so it is a very difficult equation. I also think the same applies to the work of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Board: are we developing with technology or are we protecting the existing one? That's a good question. In fact, an example of this could be taken from the '90s when the Data Protection Officer considered it unusual that the number of the recipient suddenly appears on the cell phones. This is the way we laugh about it afterwards, but then it was an extremely big question. I believe that the same tendence is reflected in the current technological development. Among other things, the positive credit register mentioned here by Mr Skinner seems to be quite a troll for the Data Protection Ombudsman. This would be a tool to prevent over-indebtedness, and this works well in Sweden, among other things, so why not also in Finland. In fact, my question to the Minister would now be here: will this proposed data protection regulation now remove these obstacles, both from technological progress and from the exchange of genuine information?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u27	Mr President! This government proposal, which is putting into practice the European Union's data protection regulation, is an extremely important legislative proposal, because this is what we are doing to create the framework by which information can be provided to another authority and so on. You have to remember that personal data is protected, that it is not allowed to be distributed along the continents to anyone but that it is all protected information. But the two examples we have just heard are extreme examples of cases that must not happen: a little girl lost her life because the authorities had information but they never went to the right address, or the behaviour of a violent student, which was, in a way, buried in a red tape, in which an innocent person lost his life. As stated in the Government’s proposal on this data protection regulation, which the European Union is putting into practice here, ‘the national margin for mobility can also be used later,for example,in the adoption of specific legislation’. Although this EU regulation is, of course, the applicable law as it stands, I ask Minister Häkkkäs when he is present how the Ministry of Justice now monitors these matters. If, of course, we European nations are not the same and what is tradition and possible in Finland is not necessarily the case in Italy, for example, how are we going to deal with this issue now, so that such unfortunate cases, as has been mentioned many times in this debate, can be prevented by the fact that between the authorities, for example in the case of violent persons, are now said in the story which led, in this case at school, to the death of another person. Is it really not possible to eliminate such things? It is quite unfortunate that in this country we have a huge amount of information about people, there are computers, great links but despite the fact that the information does not pass and happens in such terrible tragedies. Is there a chance to grab these with this kind of national application?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u28	Mr President! At this point I would like to remind you that we do not have personal data protected. They are relatively easy to obtain and the place where they can be obtained is the credit register. It provides information to insurance companies, traders, bank managers or other credit institutions. They're not protected in any way. The authority will also be informed whether the person is in the credit repository or not. And if we have one such record that leaks in such a way that it makes life impossible for a person to survive day after day, then it would be good if we could intervene at national level. I do not know whether that is possible, or whether we must make a separate law on it, but indeed, we must raise this issue, and we must also help people back to society and social life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u29	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u30	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate with your colleagues. Surely, with the entry into force of this legislation, we will be taking some time in the world of interpretation uncertainty before the case-law becomes established and we will have clear practices in Finland as to how we are now going to implement this new regulation. The Prime Minister, for example. Sipilä has suggested here in the Chamber that our own data could be managed by some kind of state-owned company, which would then also ensure that the combining of own data with research data or its commercial use, as Mr Räsänen pointed out, would be dealt with as rationally as possible in the interests of the public and, of course, also in the interests of the state. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are also in the process of preparing intelligence laws which speak very much. Of course, intelligence laws are also linked to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, whose resources are strengthened quite a lot by this amendment of the law. I would like to ask the Minister: are you currently in possession of this resource which: With this law, the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor is being given sufficient consideration to the fact that the Data Protection Supervisor is likely to be subject to significant new obligations in the coming years? And do you see that there is something in EU data protection legislation that we should pay particular attention to from the point of view of intelligence law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u31	Mr President! I too would like to ask the Minister about the new job description of the Data Protection Supervisor. I hope, Minister, that you will comment on the opinion of the EK in which they are concerned about the legal security of companies and find it problematic that a single person, the Data Protection Ombudsman, should decide to impose fines with a very severe ceiling rather than a court. From there, Director Hannu Rautiainen has thus stated that, in the course of Finland’s justice, it has generally been considered that a very severe administrative fine such as that provided for in the Data Protection Regulation can only be imposed by a court. At least efforts have been made to ensure that the decision can only be taken by a collegial body, as is the case with Financial Supervision. After all, this collegial body will now be abolished and the Data Protection Supervisor alone will decide on these. How do you comment on this concern of the EK?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u32	Mr President! In my previous speech, I had to raise the issue of organisations and their preparation for this data protection regulation. So I would like to ask the Minister how this data protection regulation is being prepared in Finland and in organisations and whether there is enough information. One of the things that has already been raised here is education, which is also a very good thing. I also ask about the role of the Data Protection Officer: do you see that more and more organisations and workplaces should also have a Data Protection Officer, as well as representatives and people responsible for safety at work? So I will ask you again about these breaches of data protection, or what they are now called, when abuses are always taking place in our society. They are happening in the health sector, including the police, on some occasions, there have been these doubts that we are going to investigate the data of another person unnecessarily. Of course, there is curiosity behind it, especially in health care, very uncomfortable and disgusting cases. How can these be prevented, and do you have any information on how many of these happen in Finland after all? If there is no reason to suspect a criminal offence — or if there is no question of a relative, patient or client in health care — there should be no access to such information, or if there is such a large fingerprint as to make these cases manifest and public and possibly criminal liability.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u33	Mrs Kiuru has the floor and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u34	Mr President! In such a knowledge-intensive society in particular, this entity involves the way in which a wide range of secondary data can also be used in society. At the moment, the secondary use of health data is being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which came before your proposal arrived in Parliament, and for these difficult reasons we have already been to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs with this proposal. It would appear that the use of, for example, health data or, in fact, any secondary information of society at the level of sufficiently anonymised information could be useful, in addition to scientific information, for example in development and innovation activities. The problem must be that there is less and less information in today's society that could be anonymised, which the Constitutional Committee seems to make conditional in these cases. And when that is the case, the question relates to how, Minister, you will see how this use of secondary information should now be taken into account, especially in a situation where such anonymisation is no longer sufficient to ensure that data protection is necessarily guaranteed, because the possibility of big data and large bots being used in data mining may give the possibility that anonymous data is actually no longer anonymous. My big question relates to whether you are aware that this secondary information should be used and where the limits are set, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now instructed the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u35	Minister Häkkänen, if you could spare three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u36	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. As can be seen from this, the aspects of data protection are very diverse. In no way should this be seen from just one angle, but there is also a great deal of constitutional rights that need to be coordinated. While this is still regulation at EU level at regulation level, i.e. most of this is directly applicable law, in which we do not have room for discretion in this house, it makes this whole set of regulations even more challenging. But at the same time, it has to be said that as the world becomes increasingly dependent on information and information management, the improvement of services, business activities, jobs in the future as well as security and the everyday mobility of citizens, access to services, and so on, everything will be increasingly linked to the way in which information moves, how it can be used and used. For this reason too, this package of reforms, which is now largely directly applicable at EU level and which now has a small amount of national discretion in our Parliament, is an extremely large and big issue. That is why I would like to stress that this is a complex package with which, when it comes to companies, we must, at the same time, read directly the EU Data Protection Regulation, whose application practice and interpretation practice are ultimately governed by the EU Court of Justice. It does not in practice have the right of national parliaments to say that that unclear paragraph means that or that. The room for manoeuvre that has been left to us is in this legislative package and it has been fully exploited. There was also room for manoeuvre within the child’s age limit, but I wanted to drop it for 13 years because more and more young people grow up in the digital environment and want to participate in society, their friends and others by taking advantage of digital services. This was also recommended by the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, the Finnish Federation for Child Welfare and other child rights organisations. Information exchange: There is a security issue that needs to be resolved in the sectoral legislation of the ministries. This is a general legislation which does not solve these problems of exchange of information. The pressure is on these, and this has now been discussed with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of the Interior that we need to move forward. These Eerika cases and many others should no longer happen in the future. For the authorities, sanctions in the same way as for the private sector: in the coming years, we will have to see whether the authorities should also be provided for, but at the moment I felt that the authorities would have an adequate standard legal obligation and a duty of accountability for these measures. A positive credit register: the liquidators have been set up, and the report will be completed in early summer, which is why it is planned to proceed as soon as possible during this parliamentary term to some extent. Penalties that may be imposed on undertakings by the Data Protection Supervisor: This comes directly from the regulation. There is no national discretion here, but I would stress that these penalties can already be determined by the Financial Supervisory Authority and various other authorities, that is to say, we already have the practice of imposing penalties. Investing in cyber competence in general, as Mr Skinner stressed here: in the years to come, it will have to be hit with huge amounts of money in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u37	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u38	Mr. Speaker! This proposal proposes to amend the law on the transposition and application of provisions covered by the legislation of the Agreement with Norway on fishing in the waters of the Teno River. According to the proposal, the payment of the duties relating to the sale of the fishing authorisations by the service provider and the provisions on the information to be provided to the keeper of the catch register would be amended. President! The purpose of the proposal is to harmonise the amount of the fee for the marketing of fishing authorisations and to improve the reliable collection of catch data. The change in the licence fee would apply only to the sale of fishing tourism licences, not to local fishermen's licences or to the authorisations of owners of fishing rights residing outside the Tenojoki valley. For those not fishing on the Teno River, these are purchased directly from the Ely Centre. It is also a question of a premium being sufficient to enable the licensees to continue selling them. Therefore, those fishing on the Teno River must report their catch data to the catch register. This change would affect by-catches, where at least the sales of licences are not yet covered by the electronic licensing system. In the Teno River, license sales data are automatically transferred to the system. The aim is also to make the sale of by-products subject to the electronic system. Comprehensive and reliable catch data are important for a reliable assessment of the status of salmon stocks. President! The most important change therefore concerns the pricing of fishing authorisations in order to allow for the granting of a tourist fishing permit to persons under the age of 18 at a very low or free price. In the 2017 fishing season, the lack of children’s fishing permits was seen as a problem for tourism services. In Norway, no fee was charged for permits sold to persons under 16 years of age in summer 2017, but the price range set in Finland did not allow for free permits for minors or as low-cost permits as was considered necessary. These changes could make the pricing of permits for children more flexible and provide better opportunities to agree on the details of authorisations, if necessary, in negotiations with Norway under Article 6 of the Teno Fisheries Agreement. The Act is intended to provide a framework within which the prices and conditions of the permit are determined annually by decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The amendment of the Act does not affect the position of the Sami people. The draft amendment has been negotiated with the Sámi Parliament pursuant to Article 9 of the Sámi District Act. And there has been broad support for the changes made in the consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u39	Mr President! If it was a difficult and complicated matter when we talked about data protection, then fishing, if only in Finland, the Nordic countries and internationally, causes feelings, and for a reason. Last summer was probably cold and chilly, and it was especially in the Teno region of Lapland, when many families with children and adults were disappointed, because fishing at Teno was practically impossible when the permits were not received or if they had been obtained, they would have paid so much that the average working family would not have been able to afford to fish there for at least one more day. So in that sense, Minister — who was unfortunately forced to leave now — this change, reduction and even abolition of the fee for under 18-year-olds is a very good achievement for the government, and it is good that it is now coming here to Parliament, although last summer, both our family and many other Tenos, was quite ruined. This is a challenging piece of legislation, and it was already a challenging whole in the Constitutional Committee. Of course, it must be said that it is good that Finland stands up for itself, because we have a few funny salmon rivers and Norway has a lot more of them. It is quite clear that when it comes to Finland’s interests, Finland will stand up for it. But in view of the practical situation that arose last summer, when the prices of permits rose by as much as 300 percent, it is quite clear that we should never have allowed such legislation out of this Chamber, let alone that it affected families with children and young people. In my opinion, this is also a much bigger social issue than fishing alone. When we talk about the relationship between children and young people with nature and about children, future generations, yet able and able to be in nature and in the forest and fishing, the only way, of course, is that it is done from a young age, for example, with its own parents. In that sense, I have been pleased that the interest groups, including the Finnish Free Time Fishermen, have been active in this consultation and have, as you can see now, also gained the will that the interests of children and young people will be realised in this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u40	Mr President! Mr Skinner made a good point here about the increases in fishing permits, which have indeed gone up in the Teno River. There is no point in the fact that 300 percent of something is going to go up at once. If the price of a gallon of milk in the store went up 300 percent one day, it would be quite a creak. According to the proposal, the fee for the performance of the duties relating to the sale of the fishing authorisations by service providers and the provisions on the information to be provided to the keeper of the catch register would be amended. In addition, a tourist fishing permit could be issued for under 18-year-olds at a very low cost or free of charge. Currently, the border section of the Tenojoki river has a joint agreement between Finland and Norway and a related fishing rule. I would welcome this agreement to be reformed as soon as possible and, in the meantime, to be negotiated with Norway. There are a lot of things here that need to be changed as soon as possible. Each person fishing on the border section shall redeem the fishing authorisation before fishing begins. This is also the practice elsewhere in Finland, fishing costs every stream and every river. The changes presented are based on the shortcomings identified in the licensing practice and on the need to improve the reliable collection of catch data in the by-waters of the Teno River. A minimum fee of EUR 3 per day for the sale of the licence by service providers and no more than 5 % of the price of the licence for more expensive permits than EUR 60 per day is proposed as a clarification that the proposal concerns only authorisations for fishing tourism. Other permits must be redeemed from the service point of the Ely Centre of Lapland, and they do not include a licence fee. The entity responsible for the sale of the licence and the service provider would be obliged to notify the name and contact details of the purchasers of the authorisation to the competent controller of the catch register. I welcome this proposal because this would contribute to the reliable collection of catch data in the by-waters of the Teno River, where the sale of the permit does not take place through the electronic system. The difference is how active fishermen are about this announcement and how much they need to be motivated to do so. The main point and objective of this proposal, in my view, is that people under the age of 18 should be able to obtain tourist fishing permits in the future. Teno very cheaply or even free of charge. On the other hand, when fishing there on river and rapid sections, there are the most young fishmen between the ages of 15 and 18. However, this proposal would allow children and young people to fish more cheaply in Teno this summer, and it is in the interests of families in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u41	Mr President! I am very pleased that this law has now been brought here to the House. This law, which deals with Teno's fisheries issues, is definitely a step in the right direction, because last summer was indeed a disaster for many in the Utsjoki region. After all, the objective was to reduce the fishing effort on the Teno River by 30%. The result was that the fishing volume of salmon decreased by 70 per cent. So this was a very difficult situation for Utsjoke tourism, but it was also difficult for many locals and Sámi. Fortunately, we have now been able to apply for a new approach, and a lot has been learned from last summer. The good news is that licence sales are now being developed in such a way that in the future these permits will also be obtained in the right way from the Finnish side and that tourism entrepreneurs will also be able to do it, and that these permits may be sold several times so that group trips have also succeeded in the future. I am also pleased about this favourable permit for young people. When this comes to the committee, I hope that the committee will also listen very widely to these opinions, because when the Teno agreement was discussed here in Parliament, the Sámi and the representatives of the shareholders, the various parties, above all the Sámi, felt that they were not being listened to enough at the time. They did not feel that they had been heard in these matters. The catch register is a very good issue and it needs to be taken forward. Because we're gonna find out how many of those salmon they're actually asking for. But then with regard to development, the last time that this matter was decided, it was agreed that there would be surveillance cameras. They already found the money for it, but where are the security cameras? For one reason or another, they have not been installed there at all, so I am asking for more. It is very good that cooperation with Norway is now being made to play better, or at least that practical work must be done in such a way that licence sales can be developed in that way. Indeed, last summer was an exception. There was a lot of water and fishing was different in many respects from before. The other summer, I was able to visit Teno with my son to ask for salmon, and at that time we were able to catch the salmon. Last summer, like many others, we did not get there to fish. How'd that work out for you? At the end of the day, however, a large part of the permits were unsold, which means that for some reason it did not play games and the fish were then not caught and the tourist revenues were not received by the locals. Hopefully, we will be able to develop this issue here. The Confederation of Fisheries, which I am in charge of, as well as the Free Time Fishermen, have both felt that this matter of law change is important. At least here we agree that something needs to be done to move the activities forward. The shareholder side has made a strong point that the role of the shareholders should continue to be emphasised, particularly in the way in which these licences are sold and what prices are. The issue of the permit sales of out-of-town residents, i.e. cottages, must be developed so that it does not happen as it happened last summer that a significant part of the permits were not sold, even though they were intended for sale. The proposal is that the number of licences sold should be limited to a maximum of 20 licences per buyer during the fishing season in order to obtain them for as many as possible. However, the issue of local fishing should also be reconsidered so that those who engage in dam fishing or online fishing can carry out this activity for as long as they can, for there are not many older people who practice it. The so-called Russian salmon must now pay particular attention to how it will be restricted. I myself have discussed the number of falcons with more than one person. There are a large number of pikes in the river today, and those pikes then eat a lot of smolts. In other words, how to get online fishing or other activities developed to take this forward. President! Finally, this Tenojoki agreement is part of the wider development of the fisheries sector, and now I hope that we will also have Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, which deals with the fisheries issues of the three northernmost municipalities in the state's current waters, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u42	President! This government proposal is good because it helps tourism entrepreneurs, who have really been in trouble, because the problem has been that when a family has gone there, as has been well said here in the speeches, it has been difficult and uncertain to obtain permits and then expensive. Now there is this Article 10, which states that a person under the age of 18 can be sold at an affordable price — as has been the case up to now — but it is a new thing that is even free of charge for a person under the age of 16. It must then be carefully seen in the committees how this free-of-charge will be achieved and whether the actual licensee, whom I promise it will then be accompanied by a free permit, will immediately be present and thus away, in order to ensure that the fish are handled correctly, winter fish will not be taken and otherwise the rules will be complied with. It is very good that the second, Article 8, then defines that when a person sells a permit, it is known to whom it has been sold and the contact details and ensures that the catch report is also made. This is a major reform and a reform that has gone in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u43	Mr President! This renewed and updated Teno agreement has left quite a lot of debuts on the Tenojoki River until these days. It is, of course, a good thing that the errors and problems from there can then be rectified in a piece, even afterwards, and this is of course one good example of the problems that have arisen with the permits. There is still a great deal to be done by the Ely Centre and Metsähallitus in general as to how digitally our services work and how fast they work and how the information moves, and I would like to see the present day taken up there as well. But then, of course, it is of the utmost importance that the fishing activity of young people and children can be supported in this way too. That situation in Teno last summer, which has already been mentioned by several colleagues here, is certainly not a credit. And, in fact, the discussions that took place a few years ago when the Teno Agreement was finally being put into effect after long, long negotiations: for example, the compensation for the local economy, when it was known that the municipality is living to a large extent from this tourism, and then the next summer it will be like this, plus 300 % withdrawals for licence sales. In other words, this has not gone quite well in all respects. It is a pity that the Minister was not able to be here to answer not only this question but also what my colleague raised in the previous speech, namely these by-water permits, which were completely neglected in the last reform of the fisheries law, and unfortunately it is still a long matter, because it is a big law. But this is one small and important issue of justice that should be dealt with. And I agree with these counters that they have been waiting for a couple of years there. What time do you think they'll be there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u44	Mr President! Several speakers have demonstrated this problem of encounters between licensees and licensees. I take it that when there are buyers and there are sellers, but they do not meet for some reason, there is a problem at stake, and this must be corrected. Mr President! This draft law proposes to amend the fee for the performance of fishing authorisations by service providers selling fishing authorisations and the quality of the information to be provided to the keeper of the catch register. That is the main thrust of the proposal. A person under 18 years of age should also be able to obtain tourist fishing permits at a very low cost or free of charge. This, too, seems to me to be an excellent opportunity. These are good improvements compared to the current situation. If implemented, the law would harmonise the fee for the sale of fishing authorisations and improve the collection of catch data. A few speeches have been made about increasing these fishing charges, and when it comes to speeding up prices, it is hardly in anyone's interest that prices go up by several hundred percent. In Finland, the sale of fishing permits in Tenojoki itself is the responsibility of the Ely Centre of Lapland, but it is possible to transfer the marketing of the licence to a private service provider or to a joint water area shareholder who holds the fishing right. In the tributaries of the Teno River, however, permits are sold, could you say, in a wild way? In other words, there are more than one licensing agent and several entities in the by-water system. Most of the permits are sold by hand rather than via an electronic system. Therefore, not all licence vendors are known, nor are they covered by the electronic system. This makes it quite difficult to make sure that everyone who bought the permit and fish reported their catches. Control is missing or non-existent. In order to remedy such problems, a legislative amendment is needed, which is now being discussed. In my opinion, the legislative amendment is a good step in the right direction, but it concerned the many problems of fishing, at least with the knowledge that I am asking: Is this step still long enough? Is there still a need for some remedial measures that can make full use of the law? Mr President! I am in favour of the bill and I wish all fishermen firm lines. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u45	Mr President! This bill on fishing in Tenojoki is, of course, good and well-founded, and one can say that we have just dealt with that data protection law, that it was probably a rather difficult legislative package, but I can say from experience what I have seen in this matter for a few years that it is probably just as difficult to regulate and manage the fisheries in the Teno River by means that all parties are fully satisfied with it. But what is important in this bill, which has now been brought before Parliament, is that young people are genuinely given access to this fine hobby, fishing, and that is what Finland has been trying to do over the years with other means — the fishing law has been amended — and hopefully the same work will continue so that this good form of hobby will spread to more and more young people, which is an excellent thing. It is true that when you look at Finnish waters in general, I wonder very much that we have the best inland waters in the world, the cleanest inland waters in the world, and yet fishing as a hobby has declined all the time. Tenojoki is one of those pearls in this immensely fine fishing environment, among all other fishing waters, which is regulated very precisely, of course, on the basis of agreements with Norway and the related laws, but it is hoped that in this Teno matter, it will be possible to move forward in the way that fishing in Teno will continue to be possible. And the rights of the Sámi, of course, must be safeguarded once they have received the status of the indigenous people and through it their rights have always been safeguarded, but I hope that we will now proceed in this matter by such a way that fishing in Teno in the years to come would be as easy and young people would be more and more there, because if fishing activity in this country is lost, a huge legacy will be lost which has been keeping this country for centuries — in fact, it can be said that it has been an important extension of bread for this nation over the centuries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u46	Mr President! There are two things that I personally consider important: that there is salmon in Teno and that the spawning potential of the bywaters is also being taken care of, and that must be based on research. We know that it is not so well in all the pages. When reference was made to last summer, my own idea of last summer is that the water was constantly one and a half feet higher, the dams could not be erected in the Teno River as before, and the idea left for us fishmen that there was a lot of big fish in traffic. I myself caught fish for a long time, even a little bigger ones that didn't have scratches on the sides, so it's probably gonna tell you something if someone wants to get it right. Mr Skinner addressed the fundamental issue here that this was a challenge for the Constitutional Committee when the Constitutional Committee issued its opinion. I am not going to interfere with that opinion, but perhaps it is worth reading for the second time, because there are five fundamental rights in Teno's fisheries, and if the Constitutional Committee has made a balance in the priority system of fundamental rights, then I would be happy to accept the paper and read which fundamental rights are then higher than other fundamental rights. That is the central problem. I do feel, and I have to say this in this Chamber, that once Finland and Norway have approved the fisheries agreement, it includes a multi-annual negotiation, we have had a situation where the groups of the population have been set up to fight each other, and that cannot be in the interests of anyone in the rule of law. I hope, when these Teno issues are discussed here in Parliament, that we will not side with anyone, but all Members of Parliament from one mouth will say that we will act according to the law and respect the Constitution, the various articles. That is the only way forward, because we cannot leave so that we can take someone's rights overboard and eat someone else's rights. There's a balance to be maintained here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u47	Mr President! This government proposal must be adopted and goes in the right direction. However, if we go a little back to history, last summer Lapland’s news on 24.7. in its main headline stated: ‘The new fisheries rule silencedTenojoki,but the beaches are dying’,and it is then reported that Tento tourism entrepreneurs have lost 60% of their share of their asses. When we discussed this here in the big room and in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, we heard an in-depth expert consultation and there was a clear contradiction between the committee and the parliamentary parties. We would have liked more respect for the rights of the indigenous people, the Sami people, and this level of protection is also too high. This is how it has been that last summer was very difficult. The forest government cabin was burned down, which means there's been a lot of resistance. When Mr Hongisto asked whether this is now the number of changes, it can certainly be said, at least here, from the point of view of the opposition, that this will need further changes in order to respect the rights of the Sami people and also in order for everyone to be able to fish equally, including those who do not have the right to fish, the landowners who own the land, like the Finnish landowners who have extensive ownership of the coastal areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u48	Mr. Speaker! Mrs Wallin made a good speech, and I too believe that these permit prices should not be too high. It is a hobby of the people, just as Teno fishing has been for decades. Representative On the corner, I might ask who determines the price of the permit. You will know — as I understand it, Members of Parliament do not allow prices to be determined — so that you can tell this Chamber who determines the prices of the permit. I hope they will not be raised too high, because it is a hobby of the people that is easily lost. Then I could ask here if anyone can answer, for example Mrs Maijala, who is very familiar with the matter: how much fishing rights does the state have at Teno? It's an interesting question because it sells licenses. Can you sell someone else's property? Now that we go a little deeper on this issue, of course, none of us want — or does anyone — to oppose the rights of the Sami people and, in a way, the development of their culture. Not me. But by whom it happens, that's another question. If the state has so few fishing rights, then we need to start thinking about what protection is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the names of those who have asked for the floor are now the same names as those who have asked for the reply, so let us go according to the actual requests for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u50	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done its own work, as you know, and will continue to do. I appreciate that and, of course, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am proud that the representative has raised the issue of how fundamental rights are treated, whether someone is more important than someone else. That is the work we are doing in a court of law, and I think we have been able to find a common vision in such difficult matters. And as you know, this work will continue. But then I would have liked to ask — the Minister is not here now — what Mrs Wallin raised here, the state of Lapland's livelihood last summer. I myself was there on the Tenojoki side and then went to the Norwegian side with children and other young people because they couldn't get the permits. There the message was from the tourist entrepreneurs that they can no longer stand: this is a total disaster, the turnover has fallen. How many companies have gone bankrupt? What happened there last summer? And do you now have any measures in the government to remedy this situation, to compensate for the disaster that happened last summer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u51	Mr President! It is precisely this issue that Mr Skinner has raised that has been very much discussed. Thank you to Minister Leppä and Minister Lintilä: both have visited Utsjoki in the past six months. These discussions have been carried out on how to deal with this situation in the Uts River, and we can move forward. Fortunately, this agreement will now be brought into a slightly better situation than it was in the past. Other aspects of tourism development were discussed with Lintilä. The positive thing about this Utsjoki situation is that it has really come to mind what activities could be made of Utsjoki all year round, because more income and jobs are needed for people. Other things: The question was, how much fishing rights does the state have? I don't know the exact amount, but I think there are surprisingly few of them. However, these matters are decided by the State. The exact amount I can't tell. Then the second point is these side water issues. If there are entirely state-owned areas, then it really does experience how the rights of the Saami and the locals have been put in waste bins for these. Then there is also the fact that the federations must not really fight with each other, because it would be in the common interest of all of us to work together to develop these fish issues forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u52	Mr President! When this border river agreement between Finland and Norway was discussed in this Chamber, I remember very well that I said that the greatest sufferer of this agreement will be tourism entrepreneurs. You didn't have to be very smart when you knew what would happen. One of the biggest problems is that this licence sale is what it is. It is likely and hopefully will develop this year, as long as they are made aware of the way in which it is being carried forward. The problem is that when you have to book a family permit there the previous summer, you can't know if you can get a permit if you have a desire to go to a certain week, as many people do. Or if there's a group of friends, four guys who want to go there the second week of July, there's no way to be sure they can go. This is the big problem. Then there are these constitutional and equality issues: can a quota be given to the tourist entrepreneur for the sale of the licence, making everything easier. That the problem is known, but when you start solving it, it's not that simple. We Members of Parliament can take the floor here to develop and resolve this issue, but it does not say how that development will take place and how this solution will be made. But the main problem is what Mrs Maijala was talking about here. I do not know how much state ownership of these fishing waters and fishing rights is, but according to some data, less than 10%. I've never heard that less than 10% control 100%. That is the problem, and then we will come to it, in a way, with the prioritising of the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself has done a good job, but we come to the point where, of course, the rights of the Sami people must be recognised and safeguarded and culture developed — and the rights of the owners must equally be accepted and taken into account when decisions are made. We parliamentarians cannot go out and put the owners or the population groups in an unequal position. We must be neutral in taking this issue forward. Now that these negotiations are taking place, there is a constant arm wrestling and, as it were, a cultural situation that attempts are being made to take rights away and for yourself. At least I would like it to be brought to an end and these things to be resolved peacefully,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u53	Mr President! Yes, for example, I and my colleague, Mrs Maijala, represent our own constituency and the Finnish people, like everyone else, and, of course, our speeches, in particular, will certainly highlight the local aspects and the rights of the Saami people. And yes, as has been said here, the Constitution will also be able to give positive special rights, as is now the case for younger children, because it is felt that it is important enough for young people, regardless of age and income, to have access to this fine border river. But then I would like to come back to the fact that this is a very exceptional area, which attracts national interest and which is a majority Sámi — our only Sámi majority — and which lives very strongly in the natural economy and tourism, and now that we know, with two years of experience, what the end of last summer, it is quite clear that not only must we be able to develop the authorisation procedure, but also to solve the problems that have been left behind in the previous fisheries law with regard to these tributaries of the Teno River. It has still not been resolved. I do hope that this spring and this summer we will not see the same hulabaloo as we saw a year ago. It is, of course, quite clear that the Utsjoki region will also be a year-round destination. If you think of the northern lights or the darkness and the winter and the frost and the cold, then fishing is not the only thing people come for. It is precisely this contribution to the development of the industry and also the discussion on compensation which was discussed when the Tenojoki agreement was agreed that there should be a debate in this Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u54	Mr President! These words, the role and position of the owner of the water court, were very well raised by representative Eestilä. The situation is that when the Teno agreement was concluded, the owners of the water court felt at the time that they had no influence — and no decision — on these decisions as regards the Teno agreement, and the result was bad. Although, are we hearing enough of them now? Secondly, when the fishing law was adopted here a few years ago, at least I saw and felt that the concept of water law was completely socialised. Today it is no longer understood what water law is. It is constitutional ownership in the same way as there is land law, property rights and everything like that, but it is watered down what water law means. Obligations have been left, but what are the rights, what good is it to have water rights today? This is something that is constitutionally understated in both the adoption of the Fisheries Act and the Teno Agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u55	Mr President! This proposal before us is indeed an excellent change. It must now also be borne in mind that Norway applied this procedure in the current period, that is to say, there was an opportunity for young people in Norway to grant these youth permits, and it is now quite good that: Finland will be involved in this on the same line. This agreement itself has, for many reasons, raised a great deal of criticism in the municipality of Utsjoki and also in the Sámi people, but it must also be remembered that it has been welcomed, and many recognise that it is extremely important that we take care of one of our most important natural resources, the salmon of Teno, and that we invest in protecting it. On the other hand, these agreements must be prepared to change if the salmon stocks reach a state that allows them to be fished more. In my view, it is also important that the rights of tourism entrepreneurs in the Utsjoki region should be taken into account in any further consideration and application of the agreement, which is extremely important. This proposal now under discussion also improves the position of tourism entrepreneurs. However, perhaps the strongest criticism in the north has been this fisheries law adopted by the previous government, which unfortunately deprived local people of these so-called tributaries, which are rich in salmon and sea trout. I hope that in the government we will find a common will for these rights to be restored, at least at some level, so that the locals are not in full tourist status in their own waters. And, as Mr Kulmuni said there, it is extremely desirable that no hulabaloo should be born now than your tiny head this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u56	Mr President! This is, of course, a well-known topic of discussion in Northern Finland for four years as the head of regional development. This is a valuable debate, it is complicated and difficult. However, I would now like to jump from this debate on the Constitution to these practical issues of authorisation, which I have already mentioned, that there are good things that are now moving forward with regard to costs. In fact, I would have asked you that last summer — and I think I called quite a number of colleagues last summer that how this could be the case — the permit period was then reduced from 11 p.m. to 4 p.m. by Teno, according to my memory. That's when a lot of kids and young people were born, and now this is over at 4:00 p.m. The second thing I am thinking about is why it has not been mentioned anywhere that the quota during the day of its authorisation could be something, so that there is a maximum quota. If you come to that salmon flock and theoretically you get many many fish, then could there not be a quota, because this environmental and nature conservation strain should also be taken into account? So I'm going back to this fundamental rights perspective. But, of course, with these questions, I would have liked to ask the Minister whether they have been considered, that is, just these concrete practical issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u57	Mr President! Mr Skinner made a constructive and moderate speech and, in fact, took up the essential point that we should have the best salmon river in the world at Teno, and then we should all feel responsible for the environment. And, as Mr Kärnä said, this agreement is by no means what everyone is barking at. Many have come there to say that this agreement is in the right direction. There are flaws there, but the intention is to improve and protect the salmon stock, especially those of the big salmon, because they have, of course, been on both the Norwegian side and Finland's side under its heavy fishing pressure. But the quota system that Mr Skinner raised would be what is needed there. That's what the rest of the world's salmon are like. Time changes, and the world changes. People are out there looking for experiences. There's got to be salmon in the river. You can't go fishing for the number of pieces any more, whether it's two a day or what it is. But when the starting point is right, that there are clear quotas, and if you come from the river without a record of the fish on the shore, then it will be tough sanctions, then we will be on the right track and protect the salmon in the right way. As far as this sarcasm and the development of the Sámi culture is concerned, as I said, I am not opposed to it or anyone else in this Chamber, but I must be careful by whom the development work takes place. When we know that there are landowners — they are called ‘cottages’, they are the owners of landowners who have been marked as having a right to own certain fishwaters — such a right of ownership in the Finnish social system must be valued. It is a fundamental right, and I do not believe that any representative of the Central Party is going to question the right to property. But, as was said, everything has not been right, and then, three years after that start, when we have to re-evaluate this border river agreement, it needs to be approached from a slightly different perspective as to how it will be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u58	Mr President! This is where Mr Skinner and Mr Eestilä have made good speeches, and I personally believe that, at the next stage when the agreement is submitted to the negotiations, it would be very desirable to find some sort of solution to the way in which this quota could be promoted. Now, if I have understood correctly, particularly the shareholders there and then also the Sámi districts strongly opposed the creation of such a quota system. I myself am an enthusiastic salmon fisherman and a great deal of North Norway salmon fishing, and it is very exceptional if there is a river where there is no such quota. Usually it has a maximum of 2 to 3 fish per day, and there are even rivers that, after a certain period of time in the autumn, if a fisherman catches a big parent fish, more than 3 kg of salmon must be returned, i.e. that fishing pressure will then be applied only to those small individuals who are not so likely to continue with it in the river. And I can see that this is certainly a common cause for all, for all the Utsjokis, for the tenovarts, for the cottagers, for the whole of Finland, that we will secure the salmon stocks of the finest and best salmon river in Europe and together we will seek solutions that are acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u59	Mr President! Thank you, this is a good and constructive debate, and perhaps I would like to make one further wish or even a request that the Committee on Budgets should now really consider how and how such a quota system would be implemented. If and when I interpret it correctly, there is no legal obstacle to doing so, because, as Mr Kärnä well described, this would actually be in the interests of all of us to go and build this. I am sure that, in the course of the expert consultation, a model will be found, so I hope that the government parties at committee stage will take this seriously so that this can still be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u60	Mr President! Now that this debate goes a little deeper, one good part of this government proposal is precisely this, that we get all the names to know who buys permits for the tributaries of Teno or Teno, and then they are obliged to report the catches. This quota system was good, and when, however, a Member of Parliament has to act in accordance with justice and truth, I have to say that if I wanted to develop, then the members of the partnership are now selling permits to the tributaries. I think it should be the case that the partnership is selling. Then we would be much better able to control, as someone here doubted whether it would work in the future. When the shareholders sell licences to common waters, certain areas could be identified, where the buyers of the permit can fish. I think it would be a much better system than the fact that the members of the shareholders hand over these permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u61	Mr President! With regard to the quota system: I think it is a very good idea and idea, because it already works, for example, on the river Tornio and in many other places. But the reason why the locals have opposed it is mainly because it is feared that it will also apply to local fishermen, and the local fishermen, the Sámi, are used to the fact that when they are fishing they take it for their own needs. This is something that will certainly have to be considered here, but I myself have also argued that this quota system could be part of it, but let us start building it so that local rights must not suffer in it. Let's see how the legal provisions can then readjust it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u62	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u63	Mr President! There is now a new private road law in the debate in Parliament. A regional reform is taking place in Finland, and the management of private roads is subject to the provinces, and for this trend this bill has now been made. A good question, which I am sure is a good question for the representatives in this Chamber and in those committees too, or at least for their friends, is what exactly is the private road. I believe that not many Finns recognize when travelling on the roads, perhaps driving on private roads. After all, there are about 360,000 kilometres of private roads in Finland and it accounts for 80 percent of the road network. It's touching all of us. People often have such a misconception that what the private road is all in all. After all, there is a huge amount of raw materials coming from private roads, for example for industry, from the forestry industry, from the bioeconomy and from the agri-food industry, most of the time, along private roads. And that is why this private road law should be updated for this millennium. I think it's a law of the last century, which needs to be updated in many respects. Professional care in the roads they are today has been well received, and now this forthcoming bill highlights the importance of professional care. Now, I hope, when last week the parliamentary working party completed its own work, that this parliamentary vision, inspired by this work, will also be found in this context of the reform of the law on private roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u64	Madam President! Private roads are an important part of Finnish society, and private road matters are known to attract a great deal of interest and sometimes raise people’s blood pressure in vain. The administration of private roads has been organised through private road care centres so that the private road administration can decide on matters with reasonable freedom in relation to the road area. It has the right to obtain and receive some grants from society. There is a small misunderstanding about this in Finland: the fact that society is assisting private roads. The amount that comes to private roads each year from society's pot through the state budget and some through the municipal budgets is very, very small. In fact, the private roads help the country with large sums of money, because all the road-care bills and measures that are taken on private roads are, of course, subject to VAT, and this VAT is many, many times higher than private road grants have ever been. And the second myth that prevails over these private roads in this country is that there would be more private roads in northern and eastern Finland, Metsä-Suomi. In fact, most of the private road grants come here to New Zealand. Here, these small roads, along which there are many people living, are covered by this law, of course, and are among the biggest beneficiaries of aid. This is something to be said for the first time. In any case, however, it is important to remember when the private road law is being amended and we are now setting up to comply with today's requirements, that the status of road care centres is still secure. And then another thing: these road issues, as we know, involve quite a lot of different opinions, direct disputes, and the procedure for resolving these road disputes has so far been on the municipal road boards or, for example, a kind of institution set up under the municipal government which has resolved these people's complaints about private roads. Of course, after these committees' complaints, there's a chance of getting there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u65	Madam President! This proposal proposes to supplement the government's proposal for private road laws and some related laws. In the original proposal, the Private Road Act was proposed to enter into force from the beginning of 2020 due to the timetable for the regional reform. However, the accessions to the regional reform of the proposal for a private road law are limited, as has been estimated, and it is therefore now proposed that the legislation should enter into force from the beginning of 2019. It would therefore also be possible to re-examine this whole package of legislation in committee work or to continue working on it. In the original proposal, it was proposed that the tasks of the road commissions of the municipalities to be abolished should be transferred to the National Agency for Authorisation and Control to be set up in connection with the regional reform of the municipality's road maintenance obligation, the convening of the road assembly and the use of administrative means. This proposal now proposes that the tasks of the road boards be carried out in business, transport and environmental centres, i.e. more familiarly in this house in Ely centres, for the year 2019. The proposal is therefore linked to the reform of the private road law in the referral debate in October, to which there was no particular criticism during the consultation. The LVM justifies this addition by the fact that the private road law does not have much contact with the regional reform. However, deviating from the original plan brings, in a way, when we are honest with ourselves, multiple legislative work and additional work by the Ely Centres. And that all comes from the fact that this year will be brought forward. However, with open mind on this subject in committee work, the present private road law dates back to 1963, and I dare say that the law of this age is certainly also in need of reform in connection with those challenges,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u66	Mr President! This private road law is a very good law, and this supplement will only speed up the many advantages of the private road law that need to be brought into force as soon as possible. In practice, this supplementary proposal speeds up the entry into force of this law and transfers these tasks to the Ely Centres before they enter into force. The Ely centres are also delegating the tasks of the road boards to be abolished from the municipalities. In this context I would also have considered the option which also existed in previous drafts that this complaint and conciliation body should also have been a provincial appeal and conciliation body, i.e. that would have had the opportunity of a province such a body to base, so this would have been the case for this legal process to be omitted, but this is not the case in this proposal. Of course, I would have liked that too. Good law in itself, but with a little filet, it's always better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u67	Mr President! This supplemental law on private road matters is truly welcome and expected. In the field where we are dealing with this private road law in the municipalities, this law is very much expected. There are not many days since I was contacted by one of the Lappish municipalities that it is true that this law is not now being implemented. Fortunately, I was able to reassure him that the law will now be passed, because they were all prepared to have this law in force from the beginning of next year. When, in general, there are many proposals for change on the provincial government side, it certainly does not bother anyone that this law will now be taken over at the provincial level, because it is very likely that those who now take over these matters at the Ely centre level will then be those who will continue to manage them in the provincial administration after that. So it is certainly not going to confuse this whole thing at all. So, with these things going forward. The important thing on the whole side of this private road law is to ensure that the small financial issue, which is possible for the private sector to continue to be shared. After all, the whole law is a whole set of private road issues that are being taken forward. On behalf of the private road law, it is still quite small amounts of money — 12, or was it EUR 13. million a year. But even after that, these are extremely important sums of money for these private roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u68	Madam President! I would like to return to the outcome of the parliamentary working party. It did not in itself interfere with this private road issue, but the idea that, on a budget-based basis, basic infrastructure management in Finland was now committed by means of billion-dollar funding is a good thing. I would therefore like to see a good spirit found there, based on the work of the working group, which would also be able to secure private road funding in Finland and raise the basic level, as was heard above. Representative Maijala reported that the state's private road grants amount to some 13 million per year. It is a very small amount of money that the state spends, because there are indeed hundreds of thousands of kilometres of it. After all, in many respects the municipalities today still support private roads, there are, as a rule, road-care units, or the owners will pay for them. And the roads are used by all of us, so that it is, in that sense, very cheap funding for the fairway. I would like to see a level increase in this. In the future, the provinces will be responsible for the management of private roads, and in that sense political decision-making will have an impact on them. I would therefore like this support from society, which is, in one way or another, to be earmarked for those regions. This money, which belongs to private roads, should also be allocated to the roads, because it is very easy for that money to go from there to some other, including important, destinations, but I personally consider this safeguarding of private road funding to be a matter of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u69	Madam President! A few more comments on this importance of private roads. As has been said, the 360,000 km of private roads that exist in Finland is of the utmost importance for the future of Finland. First of all, this huge and very positive increase in forest use and the additional work it brings to this country — the rise of the national economy from the swamp of recession to forestry — and all forestry activities are carried out through private roads. Every single tree mott that leaves the forest practically comes to private roads first and then to public roads. That is why it is rather unfortunate, in a sense, that this is not something that has been very strongly recognised in this country. In the past, when we joined the European Union and became accustomed to legislation relating to 95, the directives and others, this aid for private roads, which has been received from the state treasury, has been reduced year by year. After all, it is now no longer available for treatment grants at all, but it is a matter of renovation. It could be said that, in this matter, should we actually return to the roots and say that the state could give a little money in such a way that there would also be funding for road management, because today it is very rare, perhaps every 15 years, and that road maintenance is actually the larger expenditure when you look at the history of that road. That is why I would like to see this issue of road management and the importance of proper road management clearly highlighted in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, because we all know that today the requirements of the forestry industry and transport have led to a huge increase in axle loads. The trucks that were still on Finnish roads in the 60s and 70s were really small, light trucks. Today they are huge, huge. All the time the axle loads are rising, and the fact that a 70 to 80 tonne truck, which really is a huge ship, can meet during the winter season puts very high demands on road trunks, especially during the summer. I would hope that, at long last, this view will also be reached here in Parliament, that some support should be given to these private roads and thus ensure that this right of every man so important to us can be exercised so that every road user can say that a few cents of my tax money may have come to this road, and so I can, with my own conscience, drive along this road. I myself belong to two road managers, and I am saddened that in both cases landowners have been left with the cost of paying for the maintenance of these roads, and the use of roads for landowners is very limited. It can be said that, for the two roads, the use of roadshares on this road represents about 1%, and then 99% are these uses based on the right of everyman. There is practically nothing we can do about it from the state. The municipality provides a small subsidy every year. It's really small, a few hundred euros. The rest will be paid by the landowners themselves. The road use of landowners there is mainly forestry use and a little summer cottage use, and it is very limited. They are transit routes in practice both, and it causes a very high burden. We must also remember that private road law also includes responsibility. The road must be maintained in the condition that it is safe to operate. If there is an accident on the road due to the poor condition of the road, then the road body will be responsible for what happens. Who's gonna pay for it? It may be a criminal liability if, despite the failure of the bridge drum and the darkness of the night, someone drives into it, breaks his car and at its worst breaks himself. It is very quick to go to trial, who will pay for this fun, and I am sure they will be guilty then, when the road is in this condition, because it is common. It cannot be closed down or boomed on the road once it has received state aid. Finally, Madam President, one last thing: When these dispute resolution issues are also a matter for the private sector and, of course, road issues, fisheries issues and many other such hot issues, including hunting, always cause very high blood pressure at various meetings and then there are unnecessary complaints — complaints of extreme importance to the appellant — I would like the committee, together with the ministry, to consider that this road dispute resolution would lead to a procedure such as this, with the new provincial administration, which would solve this issue in such a way as to minimise the need for legal proceedings. Many complainers, when they get a decision from a road committee, often settle for it, but of course there is still an administrative court after that. It would be the cheapest method of justice in the world, and then, if the appellant were still dissatisfied with that decision of the Road Commission or even the provincial judicial body, he could, of course, go to the administrative court round if he thought so. This former procedure on the road commission of municipalities was very good, very effective and, above all, in such a state's economic situation, when you look at the outcome, very cheap. If we look at what lawyers charge, if they start doing things, then no one has written the bills of less than a thousand euros, as far as I know. But when the municipal road commission meets, the only cost in practice is the kilometer bill of a few dozen euros per meeting and then the meeting fee, which is less than EUR 100 per board member. There is no cheaper judicial system in this country, and it is very effective. I hope that the committee will take this seriously and, together with the ministry, will consider this one more time, because I think it is worth considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u70	Mr President! Private roads suddenly remind me that there is a small matter at stake. This is by no means the government's proposal, as private roads are an essential part of the Finnish infrastructure system. As Mr Hoskonen said, my memory tells me that there are exactly 35,000 kilometres of them, and the timber management of our forestry industry is very much based on them. So they may be small roads, but their strategic importance is very great. As far as their renovation is concerned, during the previous parliamentary term, the corrective debt working group did an excellent job and then ended up where it ended up, and that came into the next government programme. So we spent 600 million on renovations and repair debt, and still little on these development projects, 364 million. So there was quite a big extra investment compared to the previous one, and that was also reflected in the private aid: 30 million came for three years, or 10 million a year. That something good has been achieved, and it was seen here what was ultimately the significance of the parliamentary corrective debt working group — it did an excellent job. But I would also like to point out, Mr President, that these private roads have also gone rather badly. As Mr Hokkonen and others have said here, the vehicles today are big, they are heavy, they need a holding platform. I saw a study of what this repair debt is, after all, on the private roads, and a surprise, the cost of these renovations, bridges and bridge drums was a total of 500 million, which should be invested and put in order. So I would say that if we have ever evaluated and criticized bridge drum politicians, their time is not over, on the contrary: there is a great social order for them in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u71	Mr President! The municipalities have become two types of feedback on whether road boards are held in municipalities or whether these tasks are then transferred to the Ely Centre, possibly to be directed to the provincial level in the future. It is true that when it is near to being dealt with, then the decision is really close and very easy to settle with familiar persons, but this often also brings problems. Now that I have listened to two types of feedback about this, I have come to the conclusion, however, that it is better for this to be transferred to the Ely Centre, in future, to the provincial level, because in many municipalities there are very few cases, that is, these individual cases then, in relation to this municipal official, quite a lot of jobs, and in many cases the situation is that even an ordinary official has to negotiate and talk with familiar people, so that it may also be difficult to make such a sensible decision and that is not a nice situation to deal with that matter. The most important thing to me, however, is that in the future, when this is transferred to the regional level, i.e. first to the ely level, there will be an investment in training so that this issue can be properly dealt with and that professionals really take care of this issue. Now that we come to the people who take care of a number of cases during the year, then it would be flexible and smooth and then there would be no such extra heavy legal process, for there is no way to let this thing go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u72	Mr President! Mr Eestilä raised the issue of the drumming policy very well, and I personally acknowledge that I am a very strong bridge drum politician when it comes to road matters and infrastructure investments. That 500 million, which is a repair debt, is more or less 20 per cent of the Finnish road repair debt. In that sense, it is important to note that, in the future, with the 300 million additional funding to reduce the correction debt, it has been estimated according to today's situation that it would take about 12 years, that the 2.5 billion will be broken down, provided that the situation remains as it is, and that the future governments too commit to this good road and bus policy, which the Sipilä Government has undoubtedly done, because this has clearly invested money and reparation money and also the extra 30 million in the private sector, which has been important money. Hopefully, this spirit and attitude will also be found in future governments in Finland and basic bus maintenance will be achieved. It is very important for the industries and in the situation of the forest industry, especially now that wood is growing well in Finland and trade is good. Hopefully, that would also lead to such a positive attitude. This is a vital issue for the whole of Finland, and I would like to say that if, especially in my region in South-East Finland, where the role of the forest industry is also important, this private road finance issue would be well maintained at the current level in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u73	Madam President! One more thing was left unsaid, and that is that when there are many private roads in Finland, even roads that are not organised, this law actually means that every private road should organise itself, because if you want to get some grants from society for road maintenance, maintenance or the like, then in practice it means that the road has to be organised. But still on the subject of this dispute resolution procedure, which concerns private road decisions: in that case, I really hope that, after the road court procedure run by the municipalities, we will remain in the new provincial administration, even if we have such provincial dispute resolution bodies. If the area of the province is large, for example in Lapland, there could be a few — two, three, even four — different committees in different municipalities that would act as independent institutions. But, of course, even after that, if the person who has suffered injustice still feels that his case has not been sufficiently settled in this provincial institution, he could of course go to the Court of Justice to appeal. But in such proceedings, as I know in my municipality of residence, the decisions of the road commission are almost invariably such — I dare say, 95% — that the complaining parties have satisfied themselves with the decision of the road commission and have not needed expensive trials since then. As an old lawyer when he retired said in a speech when he was asked which court best to settle those disputes, and every reasonable person knows it: ‘Don’t, people, you’re always courting your cases because you can’t win a big decision. Suit yourself, it is always the best solution for everyone.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u74	Mr President! As Mr Hoskonen pointed out above, I would also raise the same issue more strongly. In other words, with the actual reform, the road boards will cease to exist, and in the actual proposal there is no mention of such provincial road boards that would be the dispute resolution bodies. I am inclined to the same idea as Mr Hoskonen in the sense that the provinces should have the possibility of setting up such a dispute resolution body — now it is not there — and this provincial body would then be able to achieve these more secular ways before going to court, and that court would then be after that provincial institution if there was no solution there. And what would be the good thing about this provincial institution, then for eight years I too have sat as chairman of the local road council and I know exactly that quite often there those disputes break the village communities, the neighborhood relationships are suffering, the same kinships, and when people are afraid that the village community will become divided, then it is not brave to be able to solve the municipal level, when it is too close to that dispute, so that such a provincial body would be far enough away that these ice problems would not come and then get rid of this problem. I would encourage the committee to consider this issue in the course of the debate. Then, Mr President, another important point here is that, according to this proposal, the state, the municipalities and the provinces can be a partner in the road. The same State may be required to become a shareholder. And then this benefit-pays principle is such a central principle in this legislative reform, which is quite reasonable for many private road shareholders. Especially on the plains of Ostrobothnia, where the State Railways split up those estates very long and the track is built along the road, now then
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u75	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-06-ps-17.u76	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on compensation for state resources granted to the producer of sheltered homes. In the future, the State Aid Act would apply to compensation paid from state resources to the producer of sheltered homes. Specific criteria for the allocation of compensation would be waived. I very much welcome this proposal, and it would appear that this is also good enough for the opposition, because there are so few opposition representatives in this Chamber. During this term of government, additional funding has been allocated to shelter services in such a way that it has been possible to significantly increase the number of shelters. Since 2015, the central government budget has gradually increased the budget from EUR 11.55 million to EUR 19.55 million next year. This is the right direction, because the transfer of responsibility for organising shelters from municipalities to the state also provides financial stability and enables the expansion of the shelter network and the planned development of operations. There are not yet enough or comprehensive shelters in the whole country. More important than the number of asylum places, however, is the number of asylums that correspond to their real need. In addition to the development of sheltered homes, as the committee has also said, efforts must be made to prevent and tackle violence in close relationships as early as possible. The Shelter Service covers only acute crisis assistance, and the final assistance must be planned and implemented elsewhere, including in cooperation with the social sector and the police. According to a study published by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2014, around 47% of Finnish women have experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. But not all violence comes to the attention of the authorities. It must be remembered that mental violence is also violence that should not be allowed. The violence also affects men, that is to say, we live in an equal country in this regard. Much remains to be done. The cooperation, intervention and restraining order of the authorities help in many cases, but in almost all cases it does not help. There should be the real, so-called red thread to grab. In practice, the only real security for the parties involved would be that it would be possible to intervene immediately and up-to-date in the infringement of the restraining order. At the moment it is not possible, at least on the part of the police, because the resources are still insufficient. Police services have already moved very far away from smaller locations, which, despite the restraining order, is slow to get help. Violence in the home is often called on by the police. The current situation calms down when one party is taken away by the police or some of the family goes to a shelter. However, the real problems do not end at the same time. Problems persist when one party returns from a shelter or jail. I believe that this is the moment where different authorities should invest together and improve practices. Each family should be considered individually and not as a mass. They should be given a jointly agreed plan on how to proceed after the situation. Madam President! I consider this government proposal to be very good for security and for safety. When there is no possibility of being in your own home, a comprehensive shelter system must create safe conditions for all of us.
