ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The draft law decided at first reading must be dealt with in the order in which the Constitution is adopted. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 2 October 2018. In the debate, Mr Tölli, supported by Mr Kari, has tabled a proposal to declare the draft law urgent by a decision which is supported by a majority of at least five sixths of the votes cast. If it is not decided to declare the bill urgent, it shall be deemed to have been adopted to rest in the first parliamentary elections after the elections. If the proposal for a declaration of urgency is adopted, the draft law will be deemed to have been adopted at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u2	Anyone who is in favour of submitting a bill to rest in the first parliamentary elections after the elections will vote ‘and’ who supports, votes ‘no’. If at least five sixths of the votes cast are non-voting, a proposal to declare a draft law as urgent has been adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u3	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers has not been completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item in the order of business is the eighth item. Minister Lindsröm will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u4	Madam President! This proposal for a new working time law will bring the regulation of working time into line with the needs of the 2020s. The working time law in force dates back to 1996, and since then working life has changed in many respects. All in all, working life is changing. The forms of work have varied. New technologies and communication tools have changed the timing and location of work and have increasingly made it possible to work outside the employer’s actual place of business. This work, which is independent of time and place, has become more widespread and more widespread and must also be taken into account in the regulation of working time. There is no longer any justification for considering working time solely for work in a fixed workplace. The Working Time Act protects workers from excessive working days and provides them with daily, daily and weekly minimum rest periods. Working time protection objectives are at the heart of this law. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u7	Well, I'm sure it's time for the debat. Those who want to take part in the debate first, I would ask you to stand up and reserve answers with the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u8	Mr President! Minister Lindström, the Working Time Act has now been introduced into Parliament with a relatively good preparation model. The question, however, is: how did this law on working time come about by this controversial law on dismissal, which is now at work on those sites and is making a fuss among the people? How can a change in the working time law lead to a weakening of employment security in such a way, where almost half of the workforce is covered by a weakening employment security? How did you get here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u9	Mr President! The ability to build the work of the company and the employees of the company so that, from their own competitive factors, they improve the company’s ability to serve or bring services to customers or products to customers, is also in the final game the benefit of society, bringing tax revenues. I would have asked the Minister when the proposal is as varied as possible: is it possible for all companies to agree on working hours in the same way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u10	Madam President! Mr Lindström, in your own speech, you said that this working time law will not apply if working time is not prescribed or monitored in advance. However, with regard to religious works, you are making a bigger and wider exception than is required, for example, by Article 17 of the EU directive. In the past, when we have religious supplies and their authors excluded from this law, religious duties would be included, which in practice means such things as hospital priests, deaconian workers, youth workers and early education counselors, whose working hours are predetermined and whose working hours are monitored. Why should this exception be made to this otherwise good and effective proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u11	Mr President! This law is a good example of the fact that when things are done together, it is possible to draw closer to a common direction from views far away from the original. Even though this has not been done in a tripartite way until the end, but in a way outside this cooperation, I believe that everyone can live with this whole and are satisfied with the outcome. And I think it is an example of the fact that it is worth working on, even though it is sometimes a slower road, unlike, for example, in this law on dismissal, which has now stirred the mind on the subject. There is a lot of good here: it balances the health and safety at work and the need for rest, and then it also brings flexibility to working life. With regard to this new instrument, the so-called flexible working time — or a little different title, but more free working time, which is employee-oriented — it is important not to end up in a situation where the number of jobs is impossible. We know that expert work is often challenged by it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u12	Mr President! The reform of the Working Time Act has been long and hard awaited, and it is good that it has now been brought here. However, there is one fundamental weakness — namely the lack of focus on fragmentation and other atypical work and the fact that this law is still, as a rule, regulated from the point of view of full-time work, which means that we will soon have to legislate again on the working time law, because the main problems are precisely in these so-called atypical jobs. Minister Lindström, wouldn't it have been a good idea to finish everything at once?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u13	Mr President! This is an important bill that has been brought to our attention. After all, the government's objective is to increase the employment rate and to create conditions for increasing it in the next parliamentary term, reaching between 75% and 80%. I calculated how many job-creating performances the government has made here, and I got to 50, but that's not all. There are so many of them, I will continue to count them. My question is: how do you see that the agreement of the working time law in these smallest companies could be achieved, considering that Kone Oyj and the two-person company are in a slightly different situation with regard to different legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u14	Mr President! This law has long been prepared and desired, and there is also a great deal of satisfaction with this bill. However, I note that there is still concern about the content of this bill. Tehy's side has been particularly disgruntled and it has even been said that this is the kind of billing law that leads to working hours being compiled in such a way that there will be no overtime pay, and that this will lead to a fall in earnings for Tehy nurses and elsewhere in Tehy's field. I'm gonna stay here and see if that's how it is and how it happened. Then another concern comes from the fact that, when you look at this general situation, today we are standing not half of Finland, but quite a lot of production in the export industry, for example, because the government is pushing these downgrades in employment security bull-headedly. I ask the Minister: how are you going to proceed here? Is it really the case that by making it easier to fire, employment will improve?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u15	Madam President! Preparations have been made in the triangular, so to speak, but at the end of this period the government has made use of its own interpretation. Minister Lindström sharpened safety and health at work with regard to the reform of this Working Time Act. I may have found one such essential thing that the maximum number of night shifts is limited from seven to five, which is certainly a good thing, but at the same time the number of night shifts is released considerably in different sectors. And when we have research data from the Institute of Occupational Health on the importance of shift work for human health, particularly in the paper and chemical sectors, and that night shifts are extremely harmful to health, I would like to make it clear that what are really the safety and health aspects here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u16	Madam President! A great deal of new jobs have been created during this term of government, and Mr Ala-Nissilä pointed out the extent to which these employment measures have been taken. At the same time, working life has changed, and new types of work equipment have been needed, and this reform of the Working Time Act introduces new tools for workplace-specific working time solutions that can take account of the working time needs of both employers and employees. Flexibility therefore primarily serves the needs of employees in order to reconcile the requirements of private life and work. I very much welcome the expansion of the working time bank and the introduction of a new flexible working time regime. These are welcome and expected measures in many workplaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u17	Madam President! The Working Time Act is important for the protection of workers and there are many good elements in this law, such as the working time bank and the possibility of teleworking and flexibility in working hours. Of course, important points have been raised in the debate, for example in the case of atypical employment relations, and many other issues on which I hope the committees will continue to give careful consideration. But I would like to ask the Minister about reconciling working life and family life from the point of view that in Sweden, for example, parents of young children do a lot of part-time work, a reduced working day: is there such a spirit in this law that Finland too can promote this in order to increase the employment rate through this too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u18	Let us take four more replies, then the Minister's answers, and then let us at least go to the list of speakers for a moment. Representatives Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Viitanen, Uotila and Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u19	Mr President! The Minister's presentation sounded good, but have you heard, for example, the concerns of social welfare organisations about this bill, Minister? In their view, the increase in periodic work in the field of social services undermines health and safety at work and makes it much more difficult to reconcile work and leisure time. The law would allow the employer to work up to 13 to 19 hours in periodic work, and it would also be possible to circumvent the payment of overtime for workers — these are the opinions of the social partners. How does the Minister respond to these concerns, particularly in the field of social security? This is also important in the sense that we all know that in the future we will have concerns about whether we will have enough workers in the social services sector. If the image of the work deteriorates for such reasons, then it may be that there are no willing people to do this work in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u20	Madam President! In my opinion, too, it is appropriate to draw attention to these concerns, which have been expressed both by the social welfare organisations and by Tehy in this context. Here, President-in-Office, the laws that have been laid down in favour of employment were laid down, but I calculated the proposals that have been made to undermine working life, and unfortunately it is rather unfortunate to note that forced-law threats were launched, followed by the cuts in holiday payments from hard-working public workers, unemployment security cuts, this active model — that is, a stone in a bun, as the Minister himself said — and now, of course, the burning issue is this kick law. It is a burning question, and a lot of evaluators think that, among other things, Lasse Qualitynen thought that it would be worth being patient with the government and there would be more psychology. Teachers, nurses, employees are widely opposed to this kick law. Wouldn't it be wise not to pick a fight and pull the whole thing back, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u21	Madam President! Yes, there are positive things in this working time law, such as extending the working time bank and increasing flexibility in working hours, but it is also bad, among other things, that when working life is divided at the moment, when others get tired of working too long hours and too much work and others have no work at all, the annual working hours are being prolonged. Then there are these concerns, such as: Tehy's direction has been highlighted. But I would like to draw the same attention as other Members here that even the positive aspects of this reform will fade into the shadow of this current situation. In other words, it is quite incomprehensible that Mr Lindström and the government are still not withdrawing this reduction in the protection against dismissal from workers in small jobs, because it is the only way to go to smooth the situation and prevent an ever-increasing conflict in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u22	Värderade Talman! Syftet med de ändringarna som föreslås är alltså att säkerstalla flexibla arbetstidsarrangemang för oika företags- och arbetsgivarsammanslutningars behov, samt att underlätta samordningen mellan arbete och privatliv för arbetstagarna. Allt det är positivt, men det krävs betydligt fler åtgärder om vi ska få upp sysselsättningen i det är landet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u23	Thank you, Madam President. If we start with the first question, this is the law on dismissal, because this has been raised in quite a few other speeches. These are, of course, two different things. It is a piece of loose law, which is the law of dismissal, which is coming here to facilitate dismissal, and it is based on the objective of raising the employment rate, the reduction of the employment threshold, nothing else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u29	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u30	Mr President! The reform of the Working Time Act is expected and welcome. I should've done it a long time ago, but I'm glad we're doing it now. The government's proposal will bring a great leap towards working time regulation, especially in terms of full-time paid work. The proposal seeks to harmonise regulation from collective agreements to a common law and leaves more room for flexibility and agreement. These can be really good things. They increase the clarity of regulation and facilitate the reconciliation of work and other life. They can also be bad things. Changes can mean loss of earnings due to reduced overtime pay, especially in the relatively low-paid sectors, and less opportunity to anticipate their own working hours. For good results to be achieved and bad to be achieved, it requires an established and as equal a culture of integration into working life as possible. The proposal is not very sensitive to the fact that such a culture of reconciliation is currently being implemented in very different ways. Nor does it provide the tools to develop and strengthen this. Mr President! It is not only the role of the legislator to respond to changes in the labour market but also to seek to steer working life in a socially sustainable direction. When we talk about working time, it is important to remember that the original historical purpose of regulation is to protect the worker, the weaker party. Night work is known to have significant negative health effects, as has already been shown here. An attempt to extend its use, even to a lesser one, can therefore be considered problematic and at least assume that an assessment of its effects can be found in such a proposal. Furthermore, everyone understands that even the occasional 19-hour shift is unreasonable for the employee. In some areas it is also a health risk for non-employees. Increasing the number of hours worked per year can also be considered problematic in terms of wider social impact. As productivity increases, working time should be reduced rather than increased. Mr President! The Working Time Act is such a wide-ranging reform, it is so complex and it concerns so many different kinds of work that the final analysis should not be carried out until after consultation with the committee. However, it is already known that there is at least one fundamental weakness: it hardly deals with short-term and shredded jobs, which are currently facing the greatest and most difficult challenges of working time. It is therefore clear that this proposal is not able to respond to the need for reform of the entire working time regulation; perhaps it will have to come back to this again in the next parliamentary term. On the other hand, this can be a good development. It is not good that laws are being reformed every second generation. We could do it a little bit more dense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u31	Madam President! As I have already pointed out in that debate, good is achieved through cooperation. How good? I hope that the committee will pay attention to a few points. Here, while the minister is here, I am going to ask you a few specific questions. If I have correctly understood the nature of the working time bank, it is limited to the possibility of having two weeks of savings leave, that is, these saved hours. I would now like to check with the Minister that this term does not mean that, when we currently have a savings-free term in the annual holiday law, these two are not lumped together, so to speak, that annual savings-free leave, and then they are dealt with in such a way as to exclude each other, but that it is also possible for the working time bank to have it during the year, even if it should be annual savings-free. If possible, there would be a wish, once the law is open, that the committee might consider the fate of the zero treaty law and of the shredding work, that there would be a little firmness there, so that it could be said that this government has done something for the workers. Mr Ala-Nissilä added this to the fact that this would contribute to employment. I would say that, if the annual working time is extended, it is now quite clear that the employer, when considering the possibility of using it as an extension of working time, would rather use it than hire an employee. At least this is not contributing to that target of 72% of the employment rate. You have to be able to see these things a little more widely: if you increase your working time, it will take away someone else's job opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u34	Mr President! This bill is not prepared by the social partners on a tripartite basis until the end, and perhaps that is why there is a great deal of concern and confusion in certain areas of the draft law. I hope that the Minister will now be able to comment on these concerns I have raised, which he did not respond to after the debate. For example, the social and health organisations have been very concerned about what will happen if the law is adopted as it is. In particular, the extension of periodic work is a difficult issue for the care sector, for example. Temporary work is a poor form of working time for the worker from the point of view of health and safety at work. It does not regulate day-to-day or weekly working hours, but regulates by means of equalisation periods and rest periods. According to the general rule of the current Working Time Act, the working day is 8 hours and the working week is 40 hours, which is an exception to seasonal work. The reform would make it more difficult to reconcile work and family in the field of social services, as Tehy said in his own opinion, among other things. By order of the employer, the law would allow working hours of between 13 and 19 hours in periodic work. Almost all social and health care professionals would be without daily or weekly regular working hours after this law. The reform of the law would also reduce overtime compensation for workers, as the employer could avoid additional and overtime payments by means of balancing periods, sliding working hours, working time banks and flexible work, and this is a big deal for low-paid workers in the social services sector. According to the government, there is an improvement in daily rest when temporary workers and dependants were given 11 hours of daily rest. This may sound all right, but in practice this means that the rest period would normally be replaced without special measures by the employer at the time of the next day’s rest or, at the very least, when there would be at least a longer break between shifts. Workers would have to be quite flexible when working weeks become irregular, working hours can be invested for six days a week, and night work can be done quite freely. This means a significant increase in labour dependency in the social services sector. We have a great deal of concern in society about how we will get workers in the social services sector in the future. This bill, if implemented, would significantly undermine the attractiveness of the sector, as it would be more difficult to reconcile work and leisure time and labour protection would take a step backwards. Mr President! I don't think the Minister really wants this in the social work, do you? I would therefore hope that if something has been misunderstood in Tehy or in the field of social services about this bill, you would correct it now, but these concerns come from people who are working in practice. In the end, the three-pronged draft law might have been better able to take these aspects of the social economy into account, and it would now be important for the committee to consider these possible problems carefully. We need an answer to what this law in the field of social services really means. Concerns about the well-being of workers in the social services sector are also concerns about good care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u35	Madam President! Working life is changing rapidly, and this working time law is more responsive to the challenges we face. Of course, this is not the answer to all the problems and, of course, in the future and in the future, special attention must be paid to those who work between employment, entrepreneurship and study in various projects, projects, family carers and so on. But I personally see good in this working time law, especially in terms of flexible working time and the expansion of the working time bank. Of course — and of course I agree with Mrs Myllykoski — these must be used in good agreement at the workplace so that it is not dictated on either side. It is clear that the debate and discussion in committee will obviously leave the concerns of the social and health sector and how we will be able to respond to them. But we must also deal with the situation in the congregations, and I would like you, Minister Lindström, to explain why the concept of religious service is now being extended. The EU Working Time Directive refers to the term ‘religious ceremonies’ — or religious deliveries such as the English version, perhaps better stated —and this new law,however,concludesreligious deliveries and tasks,which in practice I would like justification for why such an extension of the law has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u36	Mr President! This debate has well raised the question marks that this law contains and how we can safeguard and ensure that legislation ensures that a good purpose for flexible working time does not lead to the fact that we actually burn out the workers. One thing that I would like to raise and which is a bit specific to Finnish working life in comparison to the Nordic countries, Sweden, is that, for example, the statistics of the European region show that we do an exceptionally high number of night work. In fact, we do one-and-a-half times the number of night jobs compared to Sweden, for example. This also tells us that we must be particularly strong in health and safety at work and that we must have other instruments to ensure that workers are able and not weary. And as good as this flexible work in mind is — because it is, of course, intended to respond to the specific needs of working communities that come in a fast-term perspective, where it is necessary to be able to work flexibly and not within the normal working day — studies also show that, especially in the field of expert work, where it is often overburdened by the enthusiasm of returning to work, doing it fully and sometimes forgetting to rest, the risk of flexible work is that the amount of work is too high in relation to the number of hours worked and then starting to pinch on those nights. And in addition to this, there is still a lot of work to be done that may also take away the nights of travel and so forth. How do we ensure in expert work that flexibility does not become a rule but rather an exception and is used when there are grounds for it? And another thing: with what do we guarantee that it is voluntary? I did not yet have time to look at the latest version of this law so carefully as to see how it spelled out the section on whether a flexible working contract could be concluded during the probationary period. In my opinion, the worker will be rather weak because he needs to show it his flexibility and superiority, so that it would be reasonable for the probation period not to be such that a flexible labour contract can be concluded. Because we would ensure that it is actually voluntary. And the third point is the fragmentation of work and the change in working life: I agree with the criticism that we may not really be able to respond to the change in work in real time, but always afterwards. For example, when legislation on zero-hour contracts was adopted in this house, it turned out that there is a problem there for people who work part-time. There were clearer provisions for zero-hour contracts, but there are no provisions for part-time work. Nor has this matter been corrected in the context of this legislation, and I would like this to be one of the things that we would still look at in committee to ensure that our legislation is synchronised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u37	Mr President! The reform of the working time legislation is necessary, as has been said on several occasions here, and this proposal contains a number of elements of flexibility that will certainly help workers to better reconcile work and family life. Unfortunately, however, these flexibility elements are of no use in areas where work is carried out according to the working shift plan, and the problematic point of this proposal, too, is, in my opinion, an increase in periodic work. Segment work is a very good form of working time, in which there is already a high degree of dependence on work. According to this proposal, almost all employees in social and health services could continue to be able to use temporary work. As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has already said, the problem with periodic work is that there is no regulation of daily or weekly working hours, but the overtime limit is per working time period. This is, of course, a rather poor form of working time for the worker in terms of health and safety at work, and this is something that needs to be resolved in terms of the attractiveness of the sector. As has also been said here before, it should be remembered that this regulation of working time, especially when we are thinking about the social and health sector, is not only about the protection or productivity of those workers, but also often about patient safety. If we look at the reality of that situation in the social and health work place, today too many workers are asked to work double shifts or to work several hours on standby or have been planned immediately after the evening shift, leaving only nine hours of leave between their shifts, and unfortunately there is no relief from the reform of the working time law. I therefore hope that these will be the issues that we will then be familiar with in the committee work there, and that we will consider what can be done about this periodic work, because, as has been said, it is important to maintain the attractiveness of the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u38	Mr President! The task of working time legislation is, above all, health and safety at work. On the one hand, it is the task of working time legislation to protect the worker from the employer's requirements and, perhaps, from the demands of work, by laying down strict rules on the way in which working time can be used, how much of it can be amortised. And another thing about working time legislation is that it protects the worker from himself. He may be incapacitated, perhaps because of job intake or other reasons, to protect himself, and the work overburdens him, and then the consequences are those to which Mr Laitinen-Pesola has just pointed out that it can also be reflected in the quality of work as risks that, for example, in patient work, may be fatal, but, more generally, the quality of work will be reduced if working time legislation is not in order and the worker is overloaded in that work. Mr Järvinen has raised the issue of this problem in the church sector both in his speech and in his speech, and I am asking a bit like him: I refer to this EU Working Time Directive, which states in Article 17 that Member States have the option of derogating from these provisions of working time legislation, including in the case of workers who carry out religious services in churches and religious communities. I think I have some experience of how these religious services are understood in ecclesiastical contexts, and now that this bill brings in not only ecclesiastical services, but also these ecclesiastical or religious tasks, this clearly extends the area in which the legislation on working time can be derogated from. For what reason has such an extension been made when it appears that, if this happens and the law is adopted as such, it will mean a weakening of the position, particularly in low-paid groups of workers, such as children's directors and youth workers? Now, as Järvinen said, the cantors and priests are in force under the current legislation with this exception.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u39	Madam President! In labour law, tradition comes from industrial activity, where the 40-hour working week is traditionally done on five days from seven to four, but services cannot be supplied to warehouses, as in industry products can be stored and distributed to customers when there is demand for them. This 24/7 results in part of the labour force also having to work during working hours different from those of industrial work. To the extent that the probationary period is intended specifically to indicate whether the work is suitable for the author and the author of the work for the employer, it is preferable to be quoted at an early stage if the working time becomes a problem which confuses the person concerned's daily routines or other claims. It is then better to suspend the entire probationary period than to announce that flexible working time is not appropriate when, sooner or later, it becomes a critical factor in doing the job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u40	Mr President! The proposal proposes a new working time law to replace the working time law of 96. The aim of the proposal is to update the Working Time Act to reflect changes in the structure of the economy and in the way work is done and to revise the Working Time Directive and other international framework conditions. Working time legislation would continue to be mandatory, but would allow for a wide deviation from the law through collective and collective agreements between the national social partners. In addition, the law would provide for the right of an unorganised employer to apply provisions derogating from the law of a general binding collective agreement. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020. Working time regulation has wider social implications for the economy, the overall competitiveness of industry and services, the employment rate and, correspondingly, unemployment rates and the organisation of social services. New technologies and communication tools have changed the timing and location of work, which must be taken into account in working time regulation. Impact of the legislative change on the business field: According to Statistics Finland’s Labour Force Survey, there are approximately 90,000 employer entrepreneurs in Finland, which is also the target group of the Working Time Act for enterprises. Most of these are micro-enterprises. The economic impact of the proposal is mainly due to increased flexibility. These flexibility possibilities include an increase in working time drifts and the possibility of more extensive agreement on the extension of regular working hours, the working time bank and the flexibility working time. It is also proposed to clarify the scope of night and seasonal work and to liberalise temporary night work. Flexible working time arrangements are seen to have a wide range of impacts on labour productivity, which in turn has a key impact on GDP growth. Labour productivity is also positive in relation to employment on the basis of general economic literature. Although more flexible working hours are targeted at workers and organisations already in flexible working hours, the proposal is seen as contributing to an already ongoing development in which working hours become more flexible. The impact of the amendment is estimated to extend to a significant part of all employees and organisations in Finland. In order to safeguard certain special care services in the future, a limited opt-out system should also be allowed in Finland. It allows derogations from the maximum working hours of the Working Time Directive by means of agreements between the employer and the worker on the basis of the marginal conditions defined in the Directive. This proposal has resulted in an arrangement whereby national unions may, by collective agreement, allow doctors in hospital to exceed the maximum working time when the maximum working time is exceeded due to on-call work at the workplace. In addition, exceeding the maximum working time would require an agreement between the employer and the employee. The proposal proposes a provision which would allow the introduction of a statutory working time bank to be agreed at all workplaces, regardless of whether the collective agreement between the employer and the employer contains provisions on the working time bank. The working time bank would mean a system of reconciliation between working time and leisure, which allows saving and combining cash benefits in terms of working time, earned free or converted into leisure time. Mr President! Even if the proposed regulation allows a larger number of overtime, this is not expected to increase significantly. Making overtime is more expensive than hiring additional workers. The Government's proposal contains extensive impact assessments, including gender assessments. Working time flexibility is of great importance to women, largely because women continue to bear the greatest burden of caring for children in families. Working time flexibility, together with the day care system, makes it possible to achieve a relatively high employment rate for women internationally. In this respect, increasing working time flexibility will improve the opportunities for family women to reconcile work and family life. Mr President! I support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u41	Then Minister Lindström. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u42	Thank you, Mr President. So common: thank you for the debate. Of this flexible working time, flexible working time, the use of the workplace bank: all of these require an agreement between the employee and the employer, it is good to remember that. There have been a number of concerns about the ability of workers to cope with working time arrangements, and in addition to the regulation on the protection of working time, occupational safety legislation also applies to the employment relationship, so this is a whole of worker protection. For Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and many others, concern about the war: in this proposal the rest periods of the working areas are in fact being extended from 9 hours to 11 hours, and this will be the rule in the future. What has been referred to in the opinions in the field of social services as weaknesses and as many as 19-hour shifts have to do with the specific situation in force, which is therefore not being changed in this context. Rest-time regulation does not weaken in relation to the existing law, on the contrary there will be improvements, such as an extension of day-to-day rest to 11 hours, limitation of night shifts, 24 hours off after five night shifts. These reductions in rest periods are limited and are precisely defined. The time limits for the granting of compensatory rest periods have been shortened to the extent that this is a reduced daily rest. Representative Karimäki raised the issue of reconciliation of work and family life, moving working time arrangements. They take into account the demands of family life. Flexible working time arrangements at all make it possible to take the role of families into account here. The Employment Contracts Act contains provisions on the use of partial care leave and reduced working time, and the Working Time Act contains a provision on reduced working time which can be applied when there are social, health and social aspects of the reduction. And if the employer is not willing to work part-time, he must justify his refusal. Representative for Suutari: agreement based on collective agreements is in place under normal binding conditions, and in the field of universality these contractual rights are equivalent to those of the existing law. Working time bank, moving working hours are available in all companies. Similarly, flexible working hours between the employer and the employee are to be introduced, unless this is explicitly prevented in the employment relationship. Mr Järvinen, Mr Kantola, these religious services: in order for religious supplies and the workers carrying out their duties to be excluded from the scope of this law, they must have a working-time autonomy. Otherwise, this law applies to them. Representative Myllykoski, working time bank leave is not linked to saving-free. The law lays down the minimum amount of time allowed to leave the bank. In practice, however, these must be agreed, agreed locally. There will be no increase in the annual working time, the maximum working time will determine its longest working time. It then counts all possible hours of work, not just overtime hours. Start-up and termination work is also included in the maximum working time. There may be 200 in the year and they are therefore now not taken into account in working time. There is little expansion in the field of periodic work. This list has been brought into line with these current state requirements. Emergency care comes within the scope of periodic work; in other respects, in principle, there will be no change in treatment. And to Mr Filatov on this point, the worker can, if he so wishes, always terminate the flexibility agreement and return to what is known as normal working hours. Here, President-in-Office, these are very brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u43	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will therefore be reserved for the referral debate, and if the list of speakers is not completed within the given time limit, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 9th item. There is Minister Grahn-Laasonen, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u44	Mr President! Our working life is undergoing a major change in the way professions disappear and new jobs are created, and this change in work was also discussed in the previous item on the agenda. The job description and content of many more will change. Finland has excellent starting points for doing well in this change. We will continue to need strong general education and basic knowledge and skills for all, comprehensive learning content and more flexible opportunities for continuous learning. This government proposal responds to this third challenge. We want to strengthen the opportunities for continuous learning in Finnish universities. The need for education and learning through a new career will only grow. We need flexible opportunities to return to studies, complement skills and retrain ourselves in addition to work. We also want to facilitate access to higher education and promote the international dimension of education. According to the proposal, the legislation would be clarified in order to make it clear that further training, including part of a qualification, can also be provided in the form of further training. Such training can quickly respond to the demand for new skills in the labour market. In the future, EU and EEA citizens, including Finns, could also participate in order-to-skill training leading to a higher education degree. However, the subscriber could not charge the costs of education to students; higher education will continue to be free of charge to Finnish citizens and citizens of other EU and EEA countries. The organisation of subscription training must not undermine the education leading to a university degree. Training cannot be organised to circumvent student selection either. The overall aim is to facilitate skills shortages and the acquisition of a qualification suitable for the needs of the subscriber in the event of changes in working life. The bill makes it easier for students to move within a university. The change reduces the need to apply for a new right to study in a joint application process and to take seats from young starters. It also reduces the importance of first-time quotas which have been found to be steep. Joint applications will remain the main gateway to higher education studies. In addition, universities would create a flexible choice, which could be used in particular to select students to study places that have not been completed in the joint application process. Access to a higher university of applied sciences degree will be facilitated; students would be required to have two years of work experience instead of three years. A polytechnic could also, at its discretion, take as a student an old university degree, for example, if he is considered to have sufficient knowledge and skills for his studies. In addition, we propose flexibility in the scope of qualifications in international cooperation and reduce the administrative work that is part of project funding in our universities. The presentations related to the vision of higher education and research in 2030 are based on broad-based working group work involving higher education institutions, working life, staff, students and stakeholders. The presentations give our autonomous universities more opportunities for action and response without requiring the introduction of new operating models. They are therefore enabling legislation to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u45	Looks like there's a need for a little debat. Debatin begins with Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u46	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, the objectives of the proposal are to be supported. Increasing the number of higher education students in Finland is a good goal, and increasing the opportunities for lifelong learning is also a good objective. But I think it is well founded for universities and universities to see that when more tasks are given, such as making lifelong learning possible, but not giving more money, how can it be fulfilled? Secondly, I am also concerned about this student choice. Flexibility in itself is a good aim, but how do you intend to ensure that the selection criteria will be transparent in the future? Over the course of this parliamentary term, I have gone a little in this way in a different direction, even in the sense that there has been an increase in the loan emphasis on studying, a lot of money has been taken away from universities and universities and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u47	Mr President! This government proposal must be one of the better ones. The aim of increasing continuous learning opportunities in universities, universities of applied sciences, is precisely this increase and expansion of the level of education, which is the most important resource in Finland. However, reference has already been made to this issue of financing. I personally think it is important that, when you increase your subscription training, it should not be out of your normal degree training, and that is why funding should also be increased and secured. It is important that subscription training does not allow payments to EU and EEA citizens that the subscriber pays. The fact that students can move
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u48	Madam President! I welcome this bill. We must work to ensure that continuous learning is possible. It is important that higher education should also be involved. It is excellent that, with this new law, universities really have the opportunity to offer part of their qualifications and on-demand education, not just as open university education. It is also good that you can apply for a higher university of applied sciences degree in the future, as reform is being carried forward, with two years of work experience instead of the current three years. I'll give you my regards from Rehabilitation Day. I mentioned this reform and the health sector is very enthusiastic. In the field of rehabilitation, for example, it is indeed possible to obtain further training in the physical education and medical faculty of the University of Jyväskylä so that our social partners are even better. So this is now a major leap in how to deepen knowledge and enable continuous learning. But I would point out that it is clear that in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u49	Mr President! The framework for basic funding in relation to the tasks and expectations of universities is unbalanced and, unfortunately, the universities of applied sciences are deplorable. Polytechnics receive only half of the funding from universities, but train a larger number of students directly into working life. Basic funding for university of applied sciences research activities is still very undersized. It consists mainly of highly competitive ESF and ERDF funding, which is reduced and differentiated regionally. Financing of the Academy The university of applied sciences receive only marginally, as is known. Business Finland's admission policy also clearly favours universities and state sector research institutes. Indeed, all this is not just due to the level of applications from universities of applied sciences, as is often claimed. I would like to know when these fundamental shortcomings will be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u50	Mr President! The concerns of the Left Alliance are partly linked to this expansion of subscription training and the commercialisation of education, but then also to these financial issues, which have been mentioned in many of the comments. So here we are, on the one hand, giving additional tasks to higher education institutions in order to enable this continuing learning and lifelong learning, which is good for universities to take responsibility for it. On the other hand, it is argued that it must not be excluded from training leading to a qualification but does not provide additional funding to carry out these new tasks. At the same time, in the context of this vision, the Minister for Education and Culture has directed an increase in the number of education leading to a qualification, as it is intended to increase the share of adults with a university degree to 50%. In other words, this training leading to a qualification should then be done more in the future, but yet no more funding has been allocated for this purpose either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u51	Mr President! Of course, this is a bigger whole that we are discussing when we talk about the transformation of work and digitalisation. By the way, the answer in the midst of conflicting conclusions always seems to be that knowledge and education are the ones that we, as a nation, and perhaps also, individually manage. That is why this starting point, which has also been used to make this bill, is right in that way. I would like to ask the Minister specifically about this, since this is the focus of higher education. Of course, we may have even more of these skills challenges for the less educated population, and this is certainly the challenge we will have to tackle in the next period. But now that this cooperation with universities has been carried out, I would ask: how do you think universities have responded to this additional task and, on the other hand, to the granting of non-new resources when it is said that this cooperation has been prepared, and what prospects have you created for them? I do indeed consider this concern, which now comes from the point of view of resources in the higher education field to be justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u52	Madam President! The need for the employer and the employee to develop their staff or their own skills does not depend in any way on their nationality, and so far we have had a very special situation. Lidl, for example, has had to operate in such a way that they have been able to train Chinese workers living in Finland here and then have bought similar training for Finnish foreign operators. I don't understand why people wanted to slow down this subscription training. It is now good that under the leadership of Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen, this is progressing and opening this up to Finnish employees as well. This means that the company can develop the skills of its staff for the tasks required to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u55	Madam President! There are a lot of reforms in this package that are generally very welcome. Now that the country's economy is recovering, it is important that research and the basic work of our universities can really be strengthened both economically and in terms of university autonomy in the future. It is important for the economy to be strengthened in parallel with new tasks. The big national issue, which is not yet here and which has already been talked about a lot and which will remain for the forthcoming term of government, is this matter of lifelong learning. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister how the Minister will see the process of preparing this matter in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u56	Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen, followed by the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u57	Mr President! After all, the aims of this bill are good. The provision of continuous learning opportunities in higher education institutions will be strengthened and what could be more positive, as a rapidly changing society and working life will require extensive continuing education in different areas. Another positive aspect is that the bill facilitates the transfer of students within universities. This in turn reduces the need to apply for a new right to study, for example through a joint application. There's a lot of positive here. But, Minister, since there is no funding for this, this achievement of good objectives will be called into question. At present, many university teachers are already concerned about the quality of basic education and the implementation of basic research. If such conditions are found in higher education institutions, it is quite impossible to accept even reasonable new assignments. They too may seem unreasonable, even though everyone understands how good a bill is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u58	Then Secretary Grahn-Laasonen. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u59	Mr President! Thank you for your encouraging contributions and for the shared understanding that promoting continuous learning and lifelong learning is our common priority. Of course, success will be a joint effort with universities and, in the future, with working life even more strongly. The objective of raising the level of education and skills has been highlighted here, the fact that at least half of young adults would have completed a university degree in the future, by 2030. This will help to achieve these objectives. Of course, the work will continue, and that will be required after that. On the other hand, access to higher education will be facilitated at all ages, in life situations, and the internationalisation of education will be promoted. After all, we are currently experiencing a shortage of beneficiaries because of this high economic situation, because of the good employment situation on the one hand, and because of the ageing age groups on the other, these reforms are needed and should be promoted as quickly as possible in conjunction with higher education institutions. The question of resources has been raised here, and it is quite clear that the strong entry and expansion of the task of continuous learning also require a strong reflection on financial issues, and that is what is being done. After all, this proposal does not directly concern the financing models; it is a separate task. It is not quite as it has been suggested here that there has been no funding for this continuing learning task at all. Today, for example, through an amending budget, the government has opened a search for EUR 20 million for continuous learning: short-term module-based training, for people already in work or for those seeking to return to it. And then, through strategy funding with higher education institutions, a significant part of that resource has now been set aside to promote and play a role in continuing learning in this situation. One of the main strengths of this bill is that it will provide higher education institutions with more opportunities to expand the funding base. In other words, alongside public funding, there is also the possibility of training funded by the employer, which is well defined by this law, so that it must not be excluded from normal education leading to a qualification for younger age groups, but that higher education institutions will also be able to organise on-demand education for Finnish students and EU and EEA citizens. There is a great demand for this. In particular, the polytechnic sector has been active in this area, but it is quite extensive in our entire field of higher education. Indeed, it makes it possible for universities to receive funding elsewhere, and it is very welcome, however, as has been made clear in this bill that education leading to a degree in Finland will continue to be free of charge for students. With these framework conditions, I believe that we have produced a good proposal, and I hope, of course, that it will have the best success here at the end of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u60	Let us now go to the list of speakers, Mr Paloniemi. And we're running out of time and the subject changes around 3:35.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u61	Madam President! I was just talking about the framework for basic funding in that debate, and I think it is unbalanced when comparing universities of applied sciences and universities. But I would like to raise a few points which, in my opinion, require discussion and correction. The implementation of higher university degrees has been made very difficult by our legislation, especially for international students. In the past, it is due to three years of work experience, now two years of working experience and part-time learning, which is not required in any other country in the world. The degree title of the Master's degree is also not clear because of the political consensus of the master's degree There are a few things I have to say about this new draft financing model, because it is also linked to this vision for 2030, and that means quite a lot of things for universities of applied sciences, for example. Indeed, the draft new financing model from 2021 contains pitfalls. All indicators of internationality are being removed from the funding model of polytechnics, i.e. the incentives for internationalism are being driven down. This makes it difficult for active universities of applied sciences, which have a lot of them in Finland. The indicator of continuous learning — 9% — is interpreted quite narrowly. The new funding model does not include credits for cross-education between higher education institutions. This change certainly undermines cooperation between universities. However, the new online portal of universities of applied sciences opened at the beginning of August Campus Online is very popular among students. There credits from another university of applied sciences would no longer be included in the measure of continuous learning after 2021. OKM intends to increase the share of strategy money to 8%, one third of which goes to structural development. That money is very speculative and is granted without open rules and criteria for universities of applied sciences that merge or join university groups. To top it all off, the OKM suggests that the caps on qualifications and the financial cutters that bite over them will fall into polytechnic degrees, but they will be removed from the lower university degrees. In my opinion, this cannot be equal treatment for higher education institutions, and this also clearly contradicts the goal of the University Vision 2030, which aims at 50% of the age group having a university degree. So this new university funding model is now being built into a very complex and multi-step dim. Its predictability is poor and it is difficult to measure. In addition, 50% of the fee is fined in the degree matrix if a person who already has a higher education degree is accepted as a student. According to the current selection criteria, it is almost impossible for universities not to select such applicants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u62	Mr President! Today, therefore, there is a Government proposal to amend the laws of universities and universities of applied sciences. The aim is to implement the guidelines contained in the so-called "university vision" and the legislative changes aimed at promoting continuous learning. As has already been said in many speeches in the context of the debate, raising the level of competence of Finns and enabling continuous learning are important objectives. We know that working life is changing, we know that jobs are losing and new jobs are being created, but we do not yet know how big this change will be. Instead, all future researchers agree that the demands of knowledge will increase anyway. Thus, educational needs are not only directed towards higher education as a result of the change in work, but also, from the point of view of continuous learning, the basic knowledge and skills acquired in comprehensive school are equally central. Opportunities for updating skills are also needed at the second level. The employment rate of those who go to comprehensive school alone has fallen trendily from the 1980s, and it is estimated that there are more than 600,000 people of working age who have completed comprehensive school only, with an employment rate of only 43 per cent. Studies show that men with the lowest level of education participate in adult education. This government proposal, which therefore focuses on the proportion of higher education institutions, stresses that new tasks related to continuous learning must not take away resources from education leading to a qualification. In connection with the University of Applied Sciences vision, the Government has also directed that the proportion of young adults with a qualification should be increased to 50 per cent. This means that there is also a need to increase investment in education leading to a qualification, i.e. basic university activities and funding. However, the government has not put forward any additional funding to carry out the tasks of continuing learning rather than basic activities, but has even maintained the index freezes of higher education institutions despite the economic downturn. It is unacceptable to increase tasks and increase quantitative targets if there is no readiness to allocate sufficient resources to carry out their tasks. The main change in the law in this whole area concerns the status of compulsory education in Finnish higher education. In other words, the Government proposes to extend the required training to Finnish students and students from within the EU and the EEA region. In practice, this means that the state, general government or company could in future buy training leading to a qualification for their employees from Finnish universities. The payer is the subscriber, not the student, but the reform is yet another movement in the way of the commercialisation of education. Making continuous learning possible is really important for both the individual and the society. Unfortunately, according to the impact assessments of the Government’s proposal, allowing for subscription training is not one of the most effective measures. It is difficult to estimate the volume, and even the Confederation of Finnish Industries has pointed out that the order for the direction of employers would be for smaller entities rather than for the entire qualifications paid for by employers. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, 99.3% of enterprises are enterprises with fewer than ten persons. It is difficult to imagine, for example, that such micro-enterprises would be able to put workers in practice for full-time training, costing tens of thousands of euros. Ordering training leading to a qualification will certainly serve in particular regulated professions where there is a statutory requirement for training or professional experience. Such regulated professions include doctors, nurses, social workers and teachers. However, would it not be more sensible to train these professionals with the resources of society if there is a clear shortage of experts in such regulated professions? Ordering training is therefore a hard way to deal with the need for continuous learning. Instead of creating a heavy and bureaucratic training route without knowing what the real demand is, it would be more sensible to open up the educational provision of universities to a wider audience. There are already good examples of this, such as the artificial intelligence course jointly conducted by the University of Helsinki and the consulting company Reaktor. It is to be hoped that higher education institutions will continue along this path and will not paralyze the agile and functional concept because of the training they provide. The debate on the financing of continuous learning is already under way, and the debate will accelerate as the parliamentary elections approach. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that the debate cannot only take place from the point of view of those with higher education and good income. In the face of technological change, the most vulnerable are those with low initial training and low work assignments. The transformation of working life is a phenomenon which is beginning to break into social structures, and structural problems require structural solutions. Therefore, responsibility for continuing learning cannot be confined to the individual’s neck.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u63	There is still time for one more speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u64	Madam President! This is a matter for universities and universities: their national importance is very great. It is a matter of the highest education and research that forms the basis of our national vitality. In recent years, universities, like other institutions in society, have been involved in the renovation of public finances, which is now leading to the end of the country's debt, which will provide a sustainable basis for the development of education and research as well as social services. It has already been possible to start a turnaround in next year's budget. It has proposed more than EUR 100 million as permanent additions to science and research. The biggest pot goes to Business Finland's work, but the Academy of Finland will also have a grant mandate of EUR 25 million. EUR 46 million of new capital has been promised to universities and universities of applied sciences have been able to raise capital on a counterpart basis. In addition, a financial investment of EUR 80 million will be made in the flagship institutes of science and research. All this is excellent, but it must be remembered that there is still a long way to go to the target of 4% of GDP for research, as is the aim of the vision of higher education. In addition, we must invest in research by universities and research institutes, which is often the basis for real economic and social innovation. And it is of course important to remember, with regard to the economy, that efforts should be made to strengthen the economy of higher education institutions in parallel with new tasks. The university administration and funding model are being developed and the law contains a number of university-specific changes that are generally welcomed. The big question that has already been raised in this debate is the solutions for lifelong learning, which are, to a large extent, specific to universities and universities. The questions really are: How is this organised? What is the role of universities, the role of those concerned, the role of employers? How to finance? This is undoubtedly the major questions of the next reign. In recent years, there has been a strong emphasis on the economic needs of industry and society in the administrative and financial fields of both research and higher education. This is obviously important. Higher education institutions must meet the need for education and research in order to meet the needs of society for commercial innovation. But this alone is too limited a point of view. Universities form the basis of national civilisation and culture. A sufficiently high level of free research is needed. This is where real social and economic innovations come in for a long time. In the future, it is also important to support adequate financial autonomy in higher education institutions. This current financing model is highly bureaucratic and has some doubts about the real steering effect. There should be strong efforts to increase economic autonomy and basic funding in the future. The same applies to the autonomous decision-making of universities. There are more and more outsiders on the board of higher education institutions, and a certain number of them are, of course, also useful. Similarly, centralised administration makes management entirely easier, but it must be remembered that universities are not business institutions. The current situation has alienated the university community and has led to increased staff dissatisfaction, as has been noted, inter alia, in the assessment of university reform. It would be time again to move this scale slightly towards the university community's own decision-making and, in particular, to increase the power of the college of higher education. When it comes to research, it is also time to recognise that the reform of so-called strategic research in the past went too far and that many of the concerns expressed in the criticisms at the time have been realised. In their own field, such as health or agriculture, the government research institutes involved in important research, tens of millions of applications were often made by a politically appointed body for quite isolated projects. At the same time, the work of institutions has been seriously weakened by research to solve problems and guide work in their administrative sector. The reform allows for the allocation of subscription training among the actors in the higher education field. For example, the Federation of Finnish Student Unions is critical. However, the Government's proposal has sought to restrict this training to a strict minimum, so that only the subscriber pays and the on-demand training must not undermine the basic education of higher education institutions. In its comments, SYL also stresses the need to streamline transfer studies, which saves resources. In general, Finland is very backward in inter-university mobility between kandi and master's degrees. Holmström, a Nobel Prize winner, also drew attention to the usefulness of this. Finally, Mr President, on the subject of students. The important national role of the student unions should be emphasised. The comprehensive membership of the student unions guarantees the importance of the student's word both inside and outside universities. This YTHS law, which is absolutely excellent for the health and well-being of university students, must not affect the current status of student unions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u65	Thank you. — Now we have no Minister to present the next item, so we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u66	Madam President! The Government's proposal to amend the University Act and the Polytechnic Act is easy to support. The proposal is part of the implementation of the visionary work of universities launched during this parliamentary term. Future workers need increasingly diverse knowledge and skills to be useful and skilled in an ever-changing world in an ever-changing labour market. This requires an adequate level of education, which Finland improved especially in the post-war decades, reaching the world-class top position and being an example to many other countries, for example, in the creation of a comprehensive school system that promotes equality. However, nothing is permanent, and for many reasons Finland's position as the leader of education has fallen. Finland is lagging behind the world's top in comparison with the OECD average: In the comparison for 2016, 44 per cent of the age group of 25 to 34-year-olds had completed tertiary education. In Finland, the number of higher education graduates in the age group was 41. In comparison, it should be noted that in Korea the corresponding figure was 70 and in Japan 60. The number of people to be educated must be increased in our country, and in Finland's higher education vision the target for 2030 has been 50. In Finland and in the global labour market of the future, the low-skilled population has less chance of finding employment. Measures are therefore needed to raise the number of people trained in general and to retrain more routes. Raising education and critical thinking skills is not a minor reason for raising the general level of education. For a long time now, we have not lived in a time when we could believe what the newspapers read, but have moved into an age of increasing fake information. Responsibility for understanding truth and untruth has increasingly shifted to the individual himself, and the tools for understanding the reality of the matter can be found in strong basic education. In the Government's proposal, the main ways of increasing the level of education are to speed up the completion process, provide part of the degree in the form of further training, facilitate access to training and reduce the number of conditions for the on-demand training. The number of subscription training has increased in recent years. Extending subscription training to EU and EEA citizens would also increase equality between citizens. Moreover, this would not have an impact on state spending, as the subscriber of the training would also be the payer. The provision of components of a qualification, i.e. modules, could be free of charge for a supplementary degree but would require a decision to increase public funding for higher education institutions. An increasing number of students would also require additional funding for study social benefits. In order to continue to be comparable in terms of content and scope, there is no desire to completely abolish regulation in order to ensure that qualifications in different higher education institutions are comparable. This is important for the equality of graduates in recruitment and in applying for further studies. They also want to facilitate the transfer of students within the university. This is expected to reduce the need to apply for a new right to study in the joint application process for higher education. Madam President! The Centre believes that the legislative changes now under discussion are a step in the right direction. In our own vision of education policy, we have taken thinking even further. In the future, we hope to consider how to make learning continuous and unlimited, and that national regulation will be reduced in order to leave room for local innovation and solutions. We also hope that higher education and research will be used more in decision-making by increasing cooperation and interaction between researchers and decision-makers. Finally, Madam President, in the current age of smart technology, the question has been raised as to whether universities and universities have any more work to do, while any information can be obtained only by the push of a button. Universities are also universities of intellectual thinking. The world is full of knowledge, but what matters is what and how this information is used. This requires critical thinking and is not learned by using Google Search Service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u67	Madam President! The world is changing rapidly, and it also means that education must change — it is also reflected in it. We need constant renewal, and it is great that it is now also possible to obtain continuing education at higher education level much easier than it has been until now, and that continuing training is made possible in this way also through modules and through courses. Ordering training is a very good innovation, because now Finns and citizens of the EEA countries are in the same position as other students. It is a very, very welcome reform. It is also very important to make access to a higher education institution and study at a higher education institution more flexible. And it is important that, even now, for a higher university of applied sciences degree, there is still a requirement that there should be work experience in between. But I am very concerned that many universities of applied sciences, especially social welfare and health institutes, do not necessarily consider it important to have aptitude tests for students. Researchers say that they would be of no use, and they are, of course, expensive and difficult. But now the situation is that if you are not properly suited to the field, the only thing left to be applied is the Law of Sora,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u68	The debate is closed. It will be sent to the Committee on Education. - Was Gustafsson still there? — All right, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u69	Mr President! Thank you. — Briefly: When I listened carefully to the whole debate, I think — and I would stress it — that this largely good legislative proposal by the government will involve universities and universities of applied sciences in the dynamic development of society and increase such interaction. I am thinking in particular of universities of applied sciences, which then take the development of society forward with the rise in the level of competence. The second point that was overlooked — and I would like to say it here — is that, according to the Government's proposal, only two years of work are required for further studies at the university of applied sciences. I believe that the committee will assess this, but the arguments that I have now read seem to be very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u70	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 10. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u71	Mr President, ärade talman! The Government's proposal proposes legislative changes based on the immigration policy notes adopted by the Government at the end of 2015, as well as the underlying increase in the number of violations of the entry ban and repeated violations by the same persons. An entry ban may be imposed on a foreigner in a decision refusing, withdrawing or expelling entry on different grounds. A ban on entry may be imposed, for example, on the basis of a criminal offence or other public order or public security. The government's proposal proposes that a separate penalty rule should be laid down for infringement of the entry ban, allowing the offence to be fined or sentenced to a maximum of one year's imprisonment. At present, the act is subject almost exclusively to a provision on foreign offences, which only allows for the imposition of a fine. The provisions on state border offences and minor state border offences currently apply to infringements of the prohibition under certain conditions. It was originally intended to apply to the violation of the entry ban the penalty rule on state border crime, the penalty scale of which corresponds to the penalty scale now being proposed. The proposed penalty scale would make it possible for a more severe penalty to be imposed for an infringement of an entry ban to be equivalent to the seriousness and reprehensibility of the offence. For example, prison sentences could be imposed in situations where the offender comes to Finland to commit crimes here or where the same person repeatedly violates the ban. A more severe penalty scale is also intended to prevent a violation of the entry ban. The new penalty rule would bring all infringements of an entry ban under one penalty rule and one penalty scale, clarifying the legal situation. At the same time, the characteristics of acts punishable as an infringement of the entry ban would be specified in order to take into account the differences between third-country nationals and citizens of the European Union as a result of European Union law and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. According to the specification, an entry ban could also apply to a ban imposed by another Schengen State, provided that the ban also covers entry into Finland. Mr President! As a whole, the proposed legislative changes can be considered necessary in this particular situation. This will make it possible to deal more clearly and substantially with and prevent the entry bans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u72	Thank you for the introduction. — To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u73	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for the introduction. — Today has been a very pleasant day for such a representative of a police background who has performed duties in the foreign police on the basis of foreign law. First of all, we in the Committee on Administrative Affairs this morning finalised a report on the government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Aliens Act, which proposed to amend the provisions on the enforceability of expulsion decisions in such a way that certain decisions on expulsion relating to the Yjt could be implemented more quickly. Mr President! Then the penalty for breaking the ban on entry today, the maximum penalty for the fine being lifted into prison, is one that I am sure will be greeted with joy on behalf of my own police colleagues in particular. Indeed, the ban on entry is constantly being violated, and these numbers have increased, and it must also be borne in mind that these are not always caught. Usually, when they are revealed, those revelations then occur in connection with another crime. Mr President! On the way, colleagues were always asking questions when they saw in the practical work how inefficient the penalty was for these people who are violating it, and then, on last year's side, I turned it into a bill to which all the police representatives joined because we know the background. In it we proposed two years — that the maximum sentence should be two years, as the Police Government has seen in that time — but I am very pleased that this new provision on non-entry bans is now being added to the criminal code. It's a good start, you can say this. In Denmark, for example, 2009 was first raised from six months to two years and only three years later, 2011 to three years. That with this change of law, we are going to the same level as the Nordic countries. In general, it is important that we have uniform practices and penalties in Europe and especially here in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I think that all has been said, quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u74	Madam President! Once again, it is nice to thank Minister of Justice Häkkänen for not just speaking but doing. Here is one thing that has been expected, which is necessary, as Mrs Ruoho, through her former police profession, well described this situation, the way it has been in everyday life and how it is now making it easier. In other words, we can impose penalties for a violation of the entry ban — a fine or a maximum of one year’s imprisonment — and, like the Minister, Mr Häkkänen pointed out, directing those resources, above all, to the right place, that they do not go to these repeated treatments, or, on the other hand, this also works in a preventive way. I would ask that if a person’s goal is to get to Finland, how does it serve as a punishment for obtaining imprisonment? So that's when a person gets to stay here. Would it not be more effective than giving a fine to such a person who is unlikely to pay his fine, or, on the other hand, if he is given imprisonment, it is unconditional and not conditional? And can such a person be sent to his own country, for example? In this speech by Mrs Ruoho, these expulsions, which have now been discussed by the Administrative Committee, have, in fact, been raised quite strongly in relation to these people who need to be removed from Finland, but also in relation to criminals who are about to be released. With Minister Häkkänen, we have had a discussion in the past about, among other things, the rape killer in Tampere and how he was released from life imprisonment and was close to having to be released, according to our system, to wait for that expulsion. I would now like to ask, Minister Häkkänen: is the situation at the moment such that it is not possible to create a situation in which a dangerous person, or a person in prison in general, who is about to be deported, would be released from prison and would have to wait for a hearing to be held on the loose before that expulsion is carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u75	Mr President! This is a well-founded proposal from the government that, if we are to have a kind of ban under the law, then there must then also be some sanctions and, in particular, sanctions to prevent it, as many Members have already pointed out here. This proposal is also in good relation to our control countries. Similarly, if you look at the Nordic countries, Norway and Denmark have already tightened the penalty scale in the past, and it is quite clear that Finland will go along with the Nordic approach. Mr President! However, according to the presentation material, it is likely that the persons who then violate the entry ban will have little to count and will then be sentenced to absolute imprisonment. It is estimated that there are a few copies of these every year and they are reasonably short periods of time. I would have referred to what Mr Heinonen said earlier if Justice Minister Häkkänen could answer: is it still the case that, in Finland, we are still trying to ensure that if a foreigner is sentenced here, then a foreigner will do his sentence there in his own country? That we do not overburden our own judicial system in these cases, in particular, where the purpose is that, in the end, people do not stay in Finland but then go to their own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u76	Mr President! I would like to thank my fellow Members from Heinos, starting with the fact that 'gotmebacktothetrack'. It is precisely this predicament that is the purpose of the amendment of the law, and not the fact that some kind of citizen's feedback has now become, that what savings is this, that people are being put in prison? I see that this is not the way it is going to be, but it is precisely the intention to have that preventive effect. I would like to take an example of what the government's proposal also refers to, this thesis at the Police College of Applied Sciences and the study that during the year, a friend of Vikkeli had broken the ban on entry 12 times. Well, you can make sense of such things, especially when you know that many of these have other things in mind. As I told you earlier, these violations are usually found in connection with their committing another crime. Here too is the benefit of this kind, not only the fact that can an abomination, now have been violated by an entry ban, but it also involves this kind of cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u77	Madam President! According to Finnish law, foreigners can be taught Swedish or Finnish, but many immigrants understand that from their point of view language learning before an asylum decision is lost if they are not allowed to stay in the country, and this is very often the case. However, a person’s commitment to work is possible in Finland as well, even in performance tasks, when he knows a few hundred words in the English language of the warehouse. Finnish authorities refuse to teach these immigrants the English language, which slows down this commitment to society when you cannot even get to work. If you could speak English, it would also be a little easier to expel someone from the country if you were likely to know the language of the country of destination, which might even be English. I think that this point should be considered when both ministers are present. This is where the government would save a lot of money in the long run.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u78	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 11. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u79	Mr President! This proposal now before us is essentially a rather technical one. There are issues here relating to the future reform of social welfare and health care, which at least still leaves itself to be expected, and this is an update of these VAT-free provisions of the Act on social welfare and health care. But what is here the real substance is that of interpreting services. Interpreting services for disabled people are currently exempt from VAT only in so far as they concern interpreting services for deaf people. This is a sort of interpretation or misunderstanding, almost when not only the deaf and hearing impaired but also the hearing impaired and speech-impaired need public-funded interpretation services, but the tax treatment of these interpretation services is considered to be open to interpretation in tax practice. It would then be clarified that all interpreting services, interpretation services for people with hearing, hearing or speech disabilities and interpretation services for other similar injuries would be exempt from VAT. This would make it clear once and for all that all such services for the interpretation of disabled people are exempt from VAT. This is a very good reform. And for that, thank you, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u80	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Kiviranta has just said, this is a strange situation in which the law has specifically imposed VAT on the interpretation services of the deaf, but if the person is still blind, then this treatment would not apply. This definitely goes completely against common sense, and it is important that this flower of interpretation is corrected. But the point that I would like to draw attention to here and ask the Minister is that the correction of this tiny flaw is now tied to this social legislation. Now that it is possible that this package of reform of social and health services will at least be significantly delayed or will not be able to reach the vote in the whole of these Parliaments, would it be possible to remove this from the whole package, from the fate of this package of social services, and will certainly take care of this in itself for the service of a relatively large and moderate interest group?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u81	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 12. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u82	Mr President! I present to Parliament the Government's proposal to amend the regulation on the reduction of interest rates. The proposal is based on the Commission's tax avoidance directive, which we will implement nationally with this proposal, and the aim is to prevent tax evasion. The provision on the limitation of the right to deduct interest would be amended to include interest payments to non-group members. The restriction would also apply to taxation of other sources of income and agricultural income. Interest expenses could be fully reduced in proportion to the amount of interest income. If the net interest payments in the tax year do not exceed EUR 500000, they could be deducted in full. Where net interest expenditure exceeds that amount, expenditure could be reduced to a maximum of 25 % of the taxable person’s adjusted business result. By way of derogation, net interest expenses paid to non-group members could be reduced by EUR 3 million. As at present, the restriction would not apply if the so-called ‘balance sheet exemption rule’ were applied. The restriction would not apply to independent companies or to the financial undertakings mentioned in the Directive. Moreover, the limitation would not apply to interest payments related to social housing production which can be subject to the transitional provision proposed by the law. The transitional provision applies to interest expenses arising from loans received before 17 June 2016 or capitalised on taxation before 1 January 2019. The so-called infrastructure exemption allowed by the directive is currently in the process of further preparation by the Ministry of Finance. This raised a great deal of questions, and that is why it will be brought to Parliament after discussions with the Commission. This amendment would be applied for the first time in taxation for the year 19. The proposed changes are estimated to increase the tax revenue of the State by around EUR 10 million per year. In this implementation, it has been very important to find a balance in bringing an interest rate restriction into our legislation, but at the same time, the other side is that we have to ensure that companies have access to finance and the cost of companies' financing. I believe that a good package has been found here which, as part of other measures, effectively prevents tax evasion, but does not unduly increase the cost of company financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u83	Mr President! It is quite strange, of course, that the directive restricts the right to deduct so-called external interest rates. That directive, in one form or another, will have to come into force from the beginning of next year, and that is what legislation is at stake here. However, I think that the government has done a good job in the fact that the euro ceiling for net interest payments to non-group partners will be EUR 3 million, which is the best the government could have done in this regard. And then the balance sheet exemption provision is taken into account, it will remain, and then there will be a transitional provision on interest rates for old loans. So these are good things. The Government has made good judgement in these circumstances too, and of course it is good that these infrastructure exceptions and also the Mankala issue are considered in greater detail, but it is also expected that they will be dealt with in the same way as they should be handled in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u84	Mr President! As the Minister has just said, in summer 2016, the European Union adopted a tax avoidance directive, and now, just over two years later, we will receive the first legislative proposals for national implementation, namely a proposal for changes to the reduction in interest rates. This proposal, too, after all this waiting, lacks a very important element, namely how to treat the right to deduct public infrastructure projects and, above all, how to treat the Mankala companies, which have been set up to finance large power plants, i.e. the cost-based public investment alliances. These questions of fate must now be internalized by every representative and hope that the government will still be able to defend these important investments in the future at national level during its term. But let us now focus on what is in the proposal — or, rather, what has been left behind by the severe pressure from the business interest groups. The previous draft law has been watered down in many respects and is already reflected alone in the tax revenue estimate. In the draft Act, the combined increase in tax revenue was just over EUR 100 million, from less than EUR 20 million to less than EUR 50 million, i.e. the tax due. After all, for the first time in Finland, a reduction in interest rates was introduced from 2014, when Minister of Finance Jutta Urpilainen introduced a proposal to the Parliament to constrain internal group loans and, at the same time, tax evasion in Finland alone extending to tens of millions. In particular, the health service companies Bee and Attendo had aroused great anger with these arrangements, which were brought to an end by these interest relief restrictions. Today, both companies are on an entirely acceptable footing in this respect. However, as the leader of the opposition party at the time, the head of the centre, Juha Sipilä, pointed out, there was still room for improvement in the law. After all, he called for tax evasion to be banned and tax havens to be closed, and even so, the leader of the opposition at the time. The Sipilä only financed its entire shadow budget with revenue from the informal economy, which amounted to EUR 600 million. It has to be said that the current opposition has not hoped for this kind of return on programmes that are important in the shadow economy as such, but it was all the more surprising that Sipilä and the government partners ran out of enthusiasm for tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. On a quick note, the appropriations for the grey economy were cut at first, but public pressure was restored, and then there was the entire register farce, which has been used for the whole parliamentary term, and still the latest laws that were placed on it have not been brought into the parliament. It seems that even slightly improved transparency of ownership will remain the responsibility of the next government. And now, unfortunately, this watered-down bill complements this development. I shall concentrate here on just this most essential watering down, which is precisely this reduction in balance sheet exemption, which weakens and which, as already stated in the present proposal on pages 39 to 41, greatly undermines the effect of the entire provision on interest rates. In 2015, approximately one third of the undeductible interest expenses were refunded on the basis of the balance sheet exemption. And what is this all about? This means that around 6-8 % will not achieve the non-deductible, i.e. taxable income. It is because, above all, when a foreign fund takes over a Finnish company and it itself has a great debt lever on which it operates, so when comparing that internal debt lever of a subsidiary with the mother’s debt practices, it seems that they are the same company, even though it is actually a matter of interest-rate trickling. At the time, there is no justification for the fact that this balance sheet exemption, which had already been removed in the draft law, was now brought back to this government proposal, precisely because it undermines the effect of the interest relief restrictions. And for some reason, however, Sweden has said that they can manage without this kind of balance sheet blundering. I will come back to this subject in more detail in the next speech, but before that I will ask Minister Orpo to explain in detail why this change is taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u85	Mr President! I stayed here specifically to listen to Mr Haraka's tax considerations. I think he knows this taxation reasonably well, but very selectively. This exemption from tax on trade union incomes is a loophole from which all piglets are able to go, and he is not at all interested in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u86	Yes, I do not know why Mr Lehti moved this debate on perhaps a more embarrassing subject than he thought, namely that under the terms of this bill, the most important instrument of aggressive tax planning that had already been removed in the summer. But as far as trade unions are concerned, they enjoy the tax exemption for dividends and, above all, foreign funds which own more than half of the Helsinki Stock Exchange and various foundations, the Social Democrats are the only party in this Chamber that has proposed a small, moderate withholding tax for all of them. I challenge the assembly to increase tax revenues in the same way and not to continue to waste tax revenue. Our proposal would provide EUR 250 million in additional tax revenue for those dividend recipients who now pay no tax at all, which is an unfair situation for small investors who always pay at least 25.5%,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u87	Mr Suutari, you are asking for a reply, but you will also have the next real speech. There are no requests for reply from others, so I would like to make a list statement, Mr Suutari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u88	Mr President! In that sense, this is a response to Mr Haraka, because he talked a lot about how, based on the balance sheet comparison, there has been a lack of tax revenue. If you consider what that balance sheet exemption and comparison means, it means that the debtor and the creditor have the same balance sheets, i.e. the same amount of self-sufficiency and the same amount of debt. If it were possible to draw a conclusion from this, at least in my own experience I can draw the conclusion that then one is not somehow superior to the other and does not consider the other to be in a different position in terms of tax evasion, so that at least all, and most of it, such loans have not been made for tax evasion or aggressive tax planning or other types of tax, but are genuine business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u89	Mr President! Of course, it is clear that in all cases, in almost all cases, this is not about aggressive tax planning, but it is nevertheless a tool for aggressive tax planning. In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, let us read a little about the balance sheet exemption relief: ‘Its impact assessment shows the significant impact of the interest rate restriction provision. In the tax year 2015, on the basis of the balance sheet exemption allowance, 67 companies were released from the scope of financing, with a total of approximately EUR 280 million, i.e. approximately one third of the amount of interest expenditure that would not otherwise be deducted. On the basis of the calculations, the impact assessments have estimated that maintaining the current balance sheet exemption would mean that around 6-8 % of the total net interest expenditure of the Communities would be exempted from the restriction. However, the importance of the balance sheet exemption could probably be greater than the estimates.’ In other words, if there is a multinational, large fund operating on a large debt instrument — which therefore has a very good financial position — and it buys a Finnish subsidiary, for example, which does not have a comparable financial position, it artificially creates the same debt hook as it itself can enjoy at a much lower interest rate, while this subsidiary has to pay a significantly higher interest rate. However, what has been removed from the last draft law after lobbying by interest groups, industry, is as follows — this is no longer the case in the draft law: ‘The aim of the regulation is to set a balance sheet rule which excludes the restriction from the restriction a significant amount of interest payments which would, on the basis of the main rule, fall within the scope of the restriction. In some cases, relief may have been applied to interest expenses generated by tax plans that degrade the tax base. In addition, the provision has proved to undermine the certainty of taxation and the equality of taxable persons. For these reasons, the abolition of relief is an appropriate and consistent measure with the entry in the Government Programme for the Improvement of the Corporate Tax Base.’ In other words, we are now going against the government programme, we are going against the wishes and policies of the Tax Administration, we are going against a policy of sustainable tax policy and aggressive tax planning on the grounds that in this case the business interest groups and Finnish companies have persuaded the government that this work against aggressive tax planning is not so important. Just admit this, and then we will know what the long line of government is in the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. It's a zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u90	Mr President! The magpie intervened in the right thing. The weakening of the tax base undermines the belief that taxation is fair. And nothing, I would say, is more unfair than the fact that the trade union business is not paying any taxes for its investment activities insofar as profits are generated. They're on the same market. Even so, I understand that trade union contributions are tax-free, but that their investment activities are also tax-free, I find it difficult to understand from the point of view of the principle of equal treatment and the tax base.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u91	Mr President! In my previous reply, I specifically invited Mr Lehte and his party to join the Social Democrats initiative, which will also be in the next alternative budget, i.e. to place all the currently zero-taxed dividends on a moderate withholding tax. This was presented in Eva’s report by Associate Professor Tomi Viitala, who has presented a profit estimate of EUR 250 million. Once we get more tax revenue, when the tax base is tight, we can reduce the tax rates. It is a sign of a healthy tax policy, and I recommend this not only to Mr Orpo but also to Minister Orpo, of course, as a result of these persistent tax bases. Welcome to this initiative, which finally brings to the tax those who do not pay the tax, and the relative position of small investors will be considerably improved. We can even reduce dividend taxation from small investors. How would a thought like this sound?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u92	Mr President! An interesting debate when we start analysing what would be a fair tax policy. We heard here that the Ay movement does not have to pay taxes in the same way as other actors in society. Moreover, at the moment, the ay membership fee is tax deductible and, if I do not recall quite correctly, if this tax deduction right were to be abolished — which, in my opinion, would be the right solution from the perspective of fairness — it would bring more than EUR 200 million to the treasury of the State. More than EUR 200 million. I'd like to ask Haraka, are you ready for this, too? In its own alternative budget, KD will propose a change to this current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u93	Now, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Harakka has asked for a reply to this question, and that is what he will receive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u94	President! This phenomenon is known by the English term ‘whatoutoutism’ and means that if a speaker is saying something that is not correct in the As I say for the third time, our party is the only party that is prepared to intervene in the taxation of dividends by the trade union movement and by all other corporations and foundations of general interest and, above all, by foreign funds. First, you will answer whether or not you will go along with this first step. If you, Mr Östman, have any proposals coming up, is this also part of your performances, so that Finland can:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u95	I see, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate is expanding on the focus of this government proposal. Of course, all these speeches are about the tax base, but a slight sidetrack has that part of this debate on these contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u96	Thank you, Mr President. First, Mr Haraka: You know that the government is taking all the measures to prevent tax evasion that have been agreed at OECD level, at European Union level. In addition, we have national measures, and here the national authorities, such as the tax authorities and police authorities, the judiciary, are constantly working. I believe that good, determined work is being done in Finland, and it is very far from being withdrawn from the last government when the Minister of Finance, Mr Urpilainen, made a number of good proposals. One of them was that the interest reduction restriction could continue to be exempted or exempted on the basis of a balance sheet comparison, and this is also the case in the current proposal. [TimoHarakkacalls for an answer ] I believe that this directive, which is now being implemented, is working to prevent tax evasion. It is essential that this prevents tax evasion. But we must constantly take care of what I feel that Mr Harakka is not always so concerned that, although we are dealing with the phenomena of tax evasion, we need to provide funding for ordinary Finnish employment companies. There should be no more interference than our directive. What is absolutely essential is that our financing of SMEs and bigger ones works and thus supports growth and employment. Then you also had the mistake that the draft tax revenue estimate was such a 46 million, not 100 million, as you said. Now it's the over $10 million. We still have the two things that are in the follow-up report: this Mankala company and the infrastructure exception. They are admittedly major issues, but they are also national issues. A careful solution must be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am pleased that the fight against tax evasion by the OECD and the EU, which has thus increased strongly in recent years, is not at least now something that the Finnish Government would actively seek to block and combat. Instead, I can hope that the Finnish Government will be at the forefront of inciting the European Union to take firm action, as was the case during the previous term of government, when, of course, the coalition was also in the government. But now I will correct your correction: 46 million were the direct effect of the tax year when this draft model was to come into force, but in addition 60 million were passed on to the following years. So the combined effect was more than 100 million, and I compared these two comparable numbers with each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u98	Mr President! The fact that Mr Harakka believes that this investment income must be taxed is a significant change in the view of the Social Democrats. But I do not understand why they should have a special category when everyone else has a significantly higher tax rate, perhaps five times higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u99	Mr President! Of course, in this balance sheet comparison there are some who use it specifically for aggressive tax planning in such a way that no taxable income would arise in the subcontracting country or the subsidiary country. But most of them are, however, those who operate normally according to business rules and are not meant to evade taxes, but it is a normal loan that it gives. And because this already exists, I think it makes sense to discuss this, then, that there would be some other tool for separating those who specifically circumvent taxes from those who punish those who would not actually be taxed. And then the fact that I have heard in the past that the Social Democrats' proposal was to restrict the trade union movement out of this small foundation tax base, but apparently I was wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u100	Mr President! If you will allow me, I will briefly answer the question raised by Haraka as to whether we would be involved in such a first step. KD is involved in all projects where we can expand our tax base, but by supporting growth and employment and also being fair from all angles.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u101	Mr President! Mr Östman's reply was a perfectly good one for a politician. It is difficult for me to imagine that a moderate withholding tax of up to 5% on foreign foundations currently taxed at zero would weaken Finland's growth, let alone the general interest communities of which the trade union movement is a part. It therefore does not enjoy any special treatment; it is a community of general interest. And indeed, I am correcting Mr Suutar in that it is not precisely the trade unions that are to be freed from it more than any other community of general interest. So I'm sure we're clear on this. But now that we are going back to the main issue, this steak, that is to say, this rule of balance-sheet exemption: Minister Orpo called for it to be in this law that is still in force today. However, when laws are always to be improved and clarified, the wish of the Tax Administration, the desire of many operators and the findings of all tax planning experts was becoming an improvement, i.e. to remove this balance sheet comparison as unnecessary, difficult and, as I have just quoted, as a means of tax planning that would erode the tax base. But now you withdrew this improvement when you came to second thoughts, when the industry felt that this was not wanted, when when you chose to curb aggressive tax planning and the interests of business, you chose the latter. This does not apply to any small businesses, not even medium-sized enterprises, when these limits are so high, and besides, no company in Finland hopefully does business in the interest rate reduction industry. It's just an aid. We all agree that the conditions for companies to operate must be improved, and the constraint on aggressive tax planning specifically improves the competitive position of domestic companies against international groups. That is why curbing aggressive tax planning is also an act that promotes competition, promotes the market economy and promotes the well-being of domestic companies, and that is the main and most important reason why the Social Democrats also advocate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u102	Mr President! Of course, I was listening to a representative of the Tax Administration in the section, and I did not hear any other arguments about the balance sheet exemption other than that it was difficult. But all these others were taken from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u103	I would venture to assume that Minister Orpokin confirms that the Tax Administration has supported the removal of this balance sheet exemption. It has been in that law in the first place only as a precautionary measure when a whole new legislation has been created, when there was no such reduction in interest rates, and then it has become apparent that it can and will be used, especially in these international cross-border situations, for completely ruthless tax planning. It has then come to the point that, in some tax years, up to half of these non-deductible interest rates have been refunded to applicants, and now as much as one third in the most recent example. We are talking about hundreds of millions of euros. That is why it would have been important to do what Sweden did. If Sweden can manage without this balance sheet comparison, why not Finland? Sweden is not a terriblely disadvantaged country from the point of view of business, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u104	And the Minister has the floor. The window of time on this issue is beginning to be full, and then we will move on to the following issues, unless this debate comes to an end shortly after the Minister has spoken. — Minister, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u105	Mr President! Sweden is certainly not a very unfriendly country for entrepreneurs: it has a flexible labour market and many things are going well. Competitiveness is better. For example, there has been a good investment savings account in use for a long time. A lot of wise things have been done there. I am still returning to this balance sheet exemption. I think it is a little unfair, in a way, to label everyone who would use this, that the aim is immediately to circumvent the tax. This is true, based on the feedback this is very important for large Finnish companies. Finnish large companies employ tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of Finnish workers, and it is very important that their operating environment is competitive. This provision is necessary, for example, for large domestic companies, where the financial management of the group as a whole is centralised in the Group's financial activity in Finland, i.e. there is good justification for this in itself. Fortunately, we have a balance sheet test carried out by the wise finance minister, Jutta Urpilainen. With two more recent decisions by the Central Tax Commission, which further tighten up the content of this test, I believe that we have here a good system specifically created to prevent tax evasion, but yet with the support of good corporate finance management. That is what I could ask when we are discussing here whether the Social Democrats' proposal, which you would be using to tighten these limits in relation to the government's proposal, is still being debated, and according to the calculation made by the Ministry of Finance, you would be increasing the tax burden on Finnish companies by EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u106	Mr President! Representative Tölli gave an interview with Helsingin Sanomat,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u109	I will give the floor to Mr Heinose and then to the Minister. If there is still a need to speak after the Minister, this matter will in any event be suspended and resumed after all other matters in today's agenda have been dealt with. But now, Mr Heinonen first and then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u110	Mr President! In fact, I drew attention to the point made by Mr Orpo in his last speech that the Social Democrats had put these euro limits down considerably, to EUR 250,000. Could you, Minister, assess the impact this would have on the taxation of Finnish companies and, possibly, on this good employment development, what has been achieved at the moment if we were to continue to increase taxation on our companies in this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u113	Minister, please. - I'd love a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u114	Mr President! To Mr Heinonen's question: Yes, the estimate of the VM was 150 million in practice to tighten corporate taxation. We have estimated that, with this proposal, we are dealing specifically with tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, and that is enough without any such blackmail. But, Mr Harakka, I am forced to comment on this misunderstanding that I do not know whether you have deliberately misunderstood or whether I have expressed — and the government — somehow badly, when you repeat here time and again that the government does not care, does not want to take action to prevent tax evasion, is not serious, we are not really concerned about paying taxes in Finland which belong to Finland. We have constantly made and brought legislative proposals here and dealt with them, among other things, in the large committee, because many of these issues are on the EU tables. It is quite clear that we are doing everything we can to prevent tax evasion, aggressive tax planning in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u115	Mr Harakka, the reply cannot be denied. Otherwise, this debate would have ended for now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u116	I think it is appropriate to make a decision on this, Mr President, if something is not absolutely necessary. — However, it was perhaps a little different to talk about the great political difference between policies against the shadow economy and aggressive tax planning. At the end of the day, I would like to say that imposing a reduction in interest on a particular point is not the same thing as tightening the tax. Then only the use of the interest rebate will be restricted, as is the case today. It should not be the core of healthy business, just as it is not of aggressive tax planning. Here's a little bit of a twist. But I'd like to end this with a conciliatory note of this kind. In other words, after all this criticism — and I believe that the government's line in constraining aggressive tax planning is incomprehensiblely lax — we are absolutely in agreement with the need to withdraw the Portuguese tax treaty,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u117	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda will be the 13th item. Minister Berner — not present. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u118	Thank you to the President for this mercy. I tried to reserve the floor earlier, but at the time when the minister’s name came to it, for some reason my speech disappeared from the reserve list. However, I would like to make a brief comment on this matter, even though we have not received a presentation. This is not a major legislative issue, it is only our agreement on higher education institutions that will be made valid for the time being, which is a good thing. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is a joint mobility agreement between five Nordic universities that, in recent years, more than 2,000 students leave Finland every year, but only about 200 students arrive in Finland. So there will be 2000 and 200 for us, and this may tell us something about our attractiveness with the eyes of other students in the Nordic countries. Especially when we are a bilingual country and we could offer a wide range of educational programmes at higher education institutions, including in Swedish and other languages internationally, it would be worth considering in the Finnish higher education field how we could try to create closer forms of cooperation between different universities in the Nordic family. This, of course, involves the work that is being done in the Nordic Council at all. Young people who go to study still have to open a bank account in Sweden, for example, before they can get a rental dwelling there. Just like this, there's a problem with practical little things. For example, our middle group has proposed this Nordic e-citizenship. Since all Nordic countries have very high levels of social security and there are symbols and authentication procedures, why not have a common agreement that these are equivalent in each country? Perhaps this could also make Finland a more attractive place for other Nordic students. I consider this imbalance that if we leave more than 2000 and we have only 200 students, it is extremely worrying how, for example, our entire business life is networked in the Nordic countries and what a strong foundation and base it is for our country as a whole and for the business that is being carried out here. So it is good that this agreement is being reached and is now in force for the time being, but I hope that the imbalance in higher education policy will be taken into account that Finns are very poorly able to accept Nordic students at the moment. It is good, of course, that we have people going abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u119	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 8/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u120	Mr President! No one has presented this committee's report here, but perhaps it is appropriate to present this joint opposition objection to this law and its paragraph. In other words, in this case it is now proposed to amend the State Civil Service Act so that, in principle, an appeal to the Administrative Court may be brought against the decision on the appointment of a State official and the appointment of a State official. The opening of the right of appeal is likely to increase both the legal security of applicants and the impartiality of the public administration and the acquisition of the most qualified staff with professional and personal qualifications for the tasks of the state administration. In addition to opening up the right of appeal, the process of appointing the State as a whole should be transparent and impartial. This proposal proposes that certain restrictions be imposed on this right of appeal. The right of appeal should not apply where the power of appointment is vested in the President of the Republic or in the General Assembly of the Government, the decision concerns appointments for a maximum period of two years, or the service or service is completed by virtue of law without being declared. Nor would the right of appeal be subject to a decision on a military post by the Defence Forces or the Border Guard if the post can be filled by law without being declared admissible. Mr President! The difference in opposition thinking compared to government thinking is now linked, firstly, to this deadline, i.e. whether it should be the case that, if you apply for a two-year deadline, you cannot appeal against this decision, and, secondly, to whether these posts in the Government's plenary session are outside the right to appeal. In particular, there is a public debate on the appropriateness of the appointment procedure for the highest posts in the ministries and agencies from time to time, since there may have been doubts about the fact that the appointment was not entirely based solely on the qualifications of the candidates, but also on political appropriateness, for example. This limitation of the right of appeal is also justified by the government's justification for these posts to be decided in the General Session of the Government, which are subject to prior supervision by the Chancellor of Justice. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that the administrative decisions taken in these general sessions of the Government can still be appealed against, even though they also exercise this prior control over the Chancellor of Justice, and in that respect we do not see the point that these appointments of office are in a different position in relation to administrative decisions when it comes to the right of appeal. In the light of the above, we propose that the draft laws be adopted otherwise, in accordance with the committee's report, except for the first paragraph of Article 59 of the draft law, which would then become such that the decision may not be appealed against if the President of the Republic has the power to appoint it, the decision concerns appointments for a maximum period of one year, the post or service will be completed without a declaration under the law or the decision concerns a military post of the Defence Forces or the Border Guard which can be filled without a declaration under the law. We believe that these changes would improve this proposal or legislation. It would support people's right of appeal, which is a rather fundamental right, it will also support transparency in administration, and in this respect it would probably also serve this debate on appointments, which sometimes goes wild in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u121	Mr President! It is therefore a matter of amending the State Civil Service Act and also of a number of other laws relating to this matter. It is a question of extending the possibility and right of appeal to most of the appointments to be dealt with and decided in the General Assembly of the Government. After this amendment of the law, there will be about 2,500 of these posts and posts, and then there will be some 130 posts which would still be subject to a ban on appeal, i.e. this amendment of the law would not apply. Of course, it is important that when a post is declared to be applied for, there is the possibility and emphasis placed on the fact that when a post is declared to be applied for, it is openly dealt with. This is also about the fact that if you have a two-year term of office, you would not have that right of appeal. The committee held a debate on these nomination decisions of the General Session of the Government and whether they would be brought under the right of appeal. It is generally the case that all administrative decisions are subject to appeal to the Administrative Court. The appointment decisions are also an administrative decision, but the opening of the right of appeal allows applicants to bring the decision of appointment before the administrative court to assess the legality of the decision of appointment. Of course, the key rights of the applicant are the right to a fair assessment and equal treatment and the right to have their applications processed properly and in accordance with the principles of good administration and, of course, the right to be assessed and compared in accordance with the requirements of competence and the general criteria for appointment. It must also be recognised that, on the one hand, the possibility of appeal in certain appointment decisions slows down the validity of the appointment decision, which contributes to a certain degree of uncertainty as to the legal status of the person appointed. The status of applicants from central government would therefore be slightly different from that of applicants from other sectors. However, given that the appointment decisions of the General Session of the Government concern posts of particular importance for the planned operation and management of the State administration — that is to say, these 130 posts, which are of particular importance for the operation and management of the Government — the extension of the right to appeal to these posts and to appeal procedures could, however, make it difficult to carry out the tasks assigned to the State Administration. The extension is therefore not an unambiguous matter and the possibility of a complaint could also hamper the recruitment of staff to the State administration, especially where qualified candidates could also include persons other than those in permanent state office. It was then considered, however, that the law enforcement of the Chancellor of Justice is a priori control and is directed at all the appointment decisions taken by the General Session of the Government. The Chancellor of Justice does not, of course, assess or take a position on the order or qualifications of applicants, but carries out a judicial review and, in particular, an assessment of whether the proposal is legally sound and the presentation material is so complete that the matter can be referred to the General Assembly. I therefore think it is a good thing that this right of appeal now with this amendment is extended to some 2500 appointments, which will be discussed and decided in the General Assembly of the Government. But, in part, some 130 posts are left out of this right of appeal in terms of the overall security of society and its functioning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u122	Mr President! This proposal by the government is also of enormous importance, so that the right of appeal now comes within the range of some 40000 posts and posts and, in accordance with the majority decision of the Administrative Committee, only a very small part of the ban on appeal remains within the scope of the appeal. These include, among other things, the choice of officials under the President's appointment authority, and then also the highest choice of officials made by the General Session of the Government, the highest choice of officials, as Mr Talvitie said, about 130 copies. Whether or not these highest and most important posts in the state administration are now included in the scope of the appeal ban is for or against consideration. The Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights allows for both options. I myself took the view that the 130 highest posts should be excluded from the scope of the appeal ban. There were many reasons, but perhaps the main ones were: In the case of posts of particular importance for the planned operation and management of central government, the opening of the right to appeal and the time taken to process complaints would undoubtedly make it more difficult to carry out the statutory tasks of the state administration in a broad sense. The fact that the senior posts referred to in Article 26 of the Civil Service Act, that is to say the most important posts of the State administration, are also such that the officials referred to in this Article may be dismissed on a more general basis, i.e. where there are legitimate and justified reasons for doing so, taking into account the nature of the post. On the other hand, in the case of these 130 officials, the right to appeal is not entirely zero either, since there is also a partial appeal against the choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u123	Mr President! As has already been said here, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this legislation is, of course, quite good. This will increase transparency and enable the right of appeal to a greater number than it has been to date, and in that sense it will support the hope which will come from time to time in this Chamber that these different political appointments will be removed, and quite a lot of speeches will be heard in this direction. Mr President! However, it should be borne in mind that, in this process, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also issued its own opinion on this matter, it stated that the Committee on Administrative Affairs should reflect precisely on the fact that this right of appeal would also be extended to all the posts in the General Assembly of the Government which are not, in other words, fixed-term, or that it would be possible to establish under law that they do not need to be declared open. On this point, some reflection here on our side came to the conclusion that, while transparency is now being increased with this extension of the right of appeal, it could then go to the very point where every post to which the General Assembly of the Government appoints — this is where these 130 posts are left out — can then also be appealed. Of course, that does not mean that every decision is always appealed by an applicant, but it would be possible to do so from the very point of view that, in any case, this possibility exists in administrative decisions, even if they are subject to prior supervision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u124	Mr President! This is such polite reasoning as to which solution was now wise: to leave this 130 highest posts under the ban on appeal or not. As I said a moment ago, I myself took the view that these 130 posts should be placed under the prohibition of appeal, so as not to jeopardise the progress of central government activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u125	Mr President! As stated earlier in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated, in fact, that the draft law can be laid down in the normal order of adoption, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs refused to consider, in other words, that ‘it is necessary to consider the appointment of a General Session of the Council of State to the Court of Appeal’. This consideration was made and, by a majority, it was concluded that for these 2,500 posts, whose appointment decisions are in the General Assembly of the Government, the possibilities for appeal are opened and then the 130 posts are not. However, it was not the case that the Constitutional Committee said that the basis was, in a way, that the nomination decisions of the General Session of the Government should all have been opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u126	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. The debate will now be resumed at the plenary session on 2 October 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u127	Mr President! The law on animal welfare is one of the most important provisions concerning all animal keeping, the responsibilities and responsibilities of the owner of the animal. Our Creator has set man to cultivate and guard the earth, or we are bound by the responsibility for creation. Mr President! This reform of the Animal Protection Act takes into account the latest research on animal needs and welfare requirements. In support of this work, expert studies have been carried out on, among other things, the keeping of cows in asparagus and yards, the use of pig pregnancy cages and a number of other topics. It is worth remembering that domestic food production guarantees our security of supply. This is also an issue of internal security. In Finland, many things are already better for farm animals than elsewhere in the world. In Finland, the animals are doing well: there are few animal diseases and there are few medicines used. Finnish farmers have chosen responsibility and quality as a strategy for livestock production, and animal welfare is one of the dimensions of ethical quality. Food availability and quality largely depend on food production based on family farms. Increased demand for clean, domestic agricultural products and higher producer prices should therefore be promoted and the processing of exports should also be supported. In order to serve consumers, the traceability of food must also be improved, and for this reason the government must develop the ethics of food production and act to improve the treatment of animals and to increase traceability of food in the European Union as well. Mr President! Every Finnish citizen must understand what the law requires. Our national legislation should not undermine the competitive position of domestic livestock products with stricter animal welfare standards than those of other EU countries. That is why I consider it extremely important that the reform of animal welfare legislation becomes a law that takes into account the welfare of both farm animals and farmers and ensures the continuity of domestic agricultural production. In other words, the Animal Welfare Act must of course take into account the interests of animal welfare but also Finnish production as a whole. The law must give the frame that it still allows Finnish production, because if our own livestock production is driven into distress, food comes from elsewhere. We can't make any difference, and then we're gonna have a welfare leak. Mr President! Just a few more words about fur farming. Farming is a regionally important industry and at the same time its products are important export products for Finland. Of course, care must be taken of the welfare of fur animals and the implementation of the principles of animal protection. Finnish fur lasers have several welfare criteria that go beyond the legislation, and the Finnish fur industry is committed to continuous improvement of animal welfare. Fur farmers also guarantee regular and continuous water supply for all animals. There have been false claims in public about the water supply of fur animals. However, all fur animals have always received clean water regularly and daily. Mr President! From these points of view, I believe that the Government's legislative proposal on animal welfare is broadly in line with the principles of the KD, and we can then analyse this proposal in more detail in the discussion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u128	Mr President! Even after a long debate yesterday, a moment of merit is still being allowed today to go through this legislation on animal welfare, because the debate in the evening was significantly under way. I am surprised that there are no more parties in the Chamber to discuss this important legislative reform, which is actually the result of a long preparation and is also an important whole when considering the future of the entire food chain in Finland. Let us talk about food security or about security of supply, and animal welfare, Mr President, is absolutely central to that. Overall, this bill is extremely well-assessed. Of course, there's still some things to be said about the representative. Mr Östman has just mentioned this, and in committee we need to look very carefully and in detail and consult experts and think about it, that we will find a package here which we will hopefully be able to bring to the Chamber unanimously in the committee's report. We talk a lot about the different details on which we certainly have different opinions, and it is often even a little attitudeary here, so that we do not necessarily go ahead with the whole, but think about the fact that an individual issue is ideological, and then there is also a strong desire to bring it into the legislation. I myself am strongly moving that we need to take care of the whole thing so that we can actually guarantee it in this way... Today, in Finland, we are at the forefront of animal welfare, but we can always do better, and in this way we need to be able to grow even stronger and more valued in terms of animal welfare in the eyes of the various countries. Mr President! I think we've got a representative here. Mr Östman, too, has just spoken of the 'dimension of well-being'. It is very important for us to see, as a whole, that we do not make decisions by means of legislation which makes it impossible for us to produce food raw materials on livestock farms and allow its food production to flow outside our own borders. After that, we cannot in any way demand and we cannot necessarily be aware of the manner in which animal welfare has been achieved in the countries from which we become raw material of animal origin, either as raw material for industry or as ready-made products for consumers. In other words, we are talking about a welfare spill, and it is extremely important that the legislation does not bring the conditions of production so heavy that it is reduced even to such a minimum that we will then be on the Swedish road, where, among other things, pigmeat production is less than half of its own need and is therefore, as it were, an irreplaceable situation. This means well-being, and I also hope that we do not think that something that is out of sight will then be out of the mind, but we must also bear more responsibility for what our consumers today and what consumers of the future come from food trade to bring to their own table, and that this too will ensure that responsible domestic food will always be an opportunity for us in the future. Mr President! There was also a strong debate here last night on various issues, and there was also the issue of fur production, which is still one industry in this legislation that is not being banned. Last night, there were many speeches about why this cannot be denied in a long transitional period, so that we could then go along with someone's will so that we would no longer have fur production. Last night, it was also pointed out in this Chamber that, during the long transition period, alternative models were also being produced for these producers. But good ideas may not always be feasible, because I know and know the situation of many fur producers. If they were offered a long transitional period to move to another type of livestock production, that would not be a genuine alternative for them. They are fur breeders in many generations, and the fact that they start thinking about other livestock production is not a real option. It cannot be argued in that respect as a real opportunity. We must also see the production of fur as a valuable industry for the very reason that it is a big importer of the euro of exports for us, and neither can we be lulled into the view that if we do not produce fur, then we will not have any furs on the consumer's surface either. Again we go irresponsible — out of sight, out of mind. Mr President! This is the free thought of this strong legislation, and that is what I would like to describe as being so much more important than the fact that the sow is turning around in the pighouse, whether the cow is tied to its neck in the beard or in the yard, but this is about the future of domestic, Finnish food and the fact that we have a genuine chance of domestic food production in the future. Many times there are also criticisms of the fact that when we talk about animal welfare, the euro and profitability come up. That is an inevitable fact. Our agriculture is in such a situation today, especially livestock farms and, of course, all plant farms, that there is a careful view that there is little room for improvement, and the cost items that come through additional legislation must always be carefully considered whether they are actually feasible and necessary on our farm. If we go so far as to tighten up legislation at this point, there will be a situation in which many livestock farms will inevitably abandon production. Mr President! With these words I support this government's proposal on animal welfare, and this is certainly going through extremely carefully in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u129	Mr President! Yesterday, there was a very long and thorough debate in this Chamber about this legislation on animal welfare and some related laws. The conversation ran very much from side to side. I was horribly disturbed by the emphasis placed on these productive animals, which was very much affected by the debate on the welfare of farmed animals. This law has now been well introduced into the regulations on the place where animals are kept, the treatment and treatment of animals, which have been very far advanced and well advanced in Finland and, with this law, to an even better level. It is very good that these animal species and animals, which can be considered as farm animals and animals for social and recreational purposes, have now been registered here, mainly social and recreational animals and circus animals. There is also a separate mention of the fact that no animal that is naturally free can now be regarded as circus or hobby or pet animals. Very good performances. Yesterday's debate also raised the level of care for Finnish animals, especially on the farm animal side. We still have sparse and chicken beaks in pigs, and in many European countries such animal welfare on the productive side can only be dreamt of. That is a good model that we have in many respects in relation to farmed animals. The law has also taken a good stand on this matter of water. Now it has been determined that animals must be constantly supplied with water. For farm animals, this continuous supply of water is reasonably easy to arrange. Producers who deal with animals are constantly concerned that there is sufficient water available to animals even when there are warmer weathers, i.e. higher water consumption, and also when it is colder and, among other things, the water may freeze in the containers. Nevertheless, the producers are concerned about their animals. Now that it is written at the level of the law, these regulations will then extend to these pets too. These pets, which in many cases have to be at the head of the day in the apartment, are now protected by constant water, which means that pets also have this water thing secured, so that the dog does not have to be there for a day without drinking, but there is a law that the animals also have to have water. The problem with which this law has not yet taken a strong position is these matters of controlling pets and hobby animals. Producers and productive animals are subject to regular controls. Very often the veterinarian visits the farm to check the animals because of the conditions of support and the care of the animals, and at the same time this control is carried out to ensure that the animals are treated in accordance with the laws and regulations, but the controls on pets are much more uncertain. There very far can such animal abuse occur before it becomes known to the authorities and then it can be addressed, which is what this law still left with a small lack. As a whole, this law is very much to be welcomed and, as has already been said on several occasions in the past, the committee's work will certainly come to a very thorough conclusion, with expert consultations, in relation to this theory, which is written in the law, to how it works in practice. However, it should not be written into the law that is practically impossible to implement, so that in expert hearings there will probably still be many who will complete this set of laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u130	Mr President! Finns value animals, are interested and consider it important to promote the welfare of pet animals, wild wildlife and farmed animals. At the same time as interest in animal welfare is growing strongly, food and trade efforts to promote animal welfare are also increasing. The production of animal welfare and the marketing of ethical information will increase even more. Today’s consumers are accurate. It is also worth the legislator's attention to the timetable, the size of the steps taken by the legislation to promote animal welfare. The welfare of animals in human care always depends primarily on the care providers. When people are in good shape, they take good care of their animals. It's obvious. The law gives you a minimum set of requirements. Many animal owners, carers and livestock farmers are already doing much more for animal welfare than is required by the minimum standards. The advantage of Finnish livestock production is to ensure that consumers will continue to want to buy food for domestic, responsible and ethical production. The costs of animal welfare requirements, in turn, need to be fairly shared between producers and the State. We need to do more to ensure that high animal welfare standards also result in a clear economic benefit for the producer on the market. Special labelling of products on the market and the use of sustainability criteria in public procurement must also be strongly promoted. The purpose of this bill is to promote and protect animal welfare and to increase respect for and good treatment of animals. That is a clear objective. There are many views on the more precise criteria for the target level. The legislative package emphasises the importance of animal welfare and addresses a number of shortcomings, such as the processing of extremes, sow pregnancy cages and pain relief in certain measures. In addition, the majority of animals are subject to the law for continuous access to drinking water. The identification of dogs would also become mandatory, and the regulation on animal welfare controls will be improved in relation to the Authority’s means of dealing with irregularities. The government bill seems to be heading in the right direction. However, the shortcomings identified as a problem arise from the details and exceptions that make the target level in some places unnecessarily modest. It is proposed to include in the government bill a requirement that an animal in human treatment should be able to fulfil some of its essential behavioural needs. In some cases, however, the government’s bill ignores the essential species-specific needs. It has been criticised. According to current knowledge, a significant basis for animal welfare is the animal’s ability to carry out species-specific behaviour, such as movement, rest, social relations, study its environment and food. This idea is reflected, among other things, in the opinions of the Association of Veterinarians, which is considered an expert on animal welfare, in the preparation of this law. Mr President! The Legislative Evaluation Council has welcomed the fact that the draft law contains a detailed and comprehensive description of the impact on farmers and public authorities. The main objectives and target groups have been thoroughly described and various studies and studies have been used to assess the impact. Although the law has been prepared with such care, the evaluation council criticises what we are also criticising: the government's draft law has hardly addressed alternative ways of improving animal welfare. Where some animals are allowed to be connected or in cages with strong restrictions on movement for economic and production reasons, these reasons should be further explained and the overall cost and distribution of these costs between entrepreneurs and the State should also be given. The draft law does not give an adequate picture of the level of animal welfare legislation in Finland compared to the control countries. The proposal should allow for the flexibility of animal welfare objectives on the one hand and the competitiveness of the agricultural industry on the other. Mr President! It is clear that, in the context of this bill and in a broad range, our legislation outside this bill must seek solutions that safeguard both animal welfare and, in the long term, the economically, ethically and socially sustainable domestic food system. These issues need not and must not be pushed into a permanent conflict.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u131	Mr President! I was still excited to take the floor after Mr Halmemenpää's speech. I am a little surprised at such a small part of the whole, because in the consultation we have received some 400 opinions, contributions from different types of organisations, producers, and here, quite a few times last night, it was heard that the Association of Veterinarians, the Association of Veterinarians, which, in other words, is extremely high on many points as well. I appreciate the Federation of Veterinarians very high, and I have also attended the meetings of the Association of Veterinarians to listen to what they think, but we should also look as carefully and certainly look at the other opinions and assess the whole. But I just wanted to point out that a number of different opinions have taken a position on a lot of things. That fact must also be recognised and recognised by each of us, to which Mr Halmemenpää has just referred, that farmers, producers, today, are doing far more than the minimum requirement requires. In many production chains, we have different welfare requirements that go far beyond the current legislation, and they will be monitored and monitored by welfare agreements, production agreements and, in this respect, there has been a responsible move towards a more commendable level of standards. When it comes to the welfare of producers and the welfare of animals, they sort of go hand in hand. If a producer's well-being is brazed, then, of course, the ability to work will be reduced. We all know that if the ability to work starts to deteriorate, the productivity of the work will then also be on the line. So, of course, extreme things have also come to livestock farms where animal welfare has been neglected, but it must be remembered that today many livestock farmers, the keeper of farm animals, have to make their daily routines sick as well. And that is the kind of thing that we must also take into account that there is an ever-extremely high level of living there, and, of course, next year's budget, when it comes to dealing with it, has made a significant contribution to this well-being, and that is an important issue. But you have to keep these in mind, too, all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u132	Mr President! First of all, we have to comment on it if it has sounded bad last night that someone is taking up the Veterinarian Association's statements and bringing them up here. I would say that they are perhaps the best experts in animal welfare to make statements. In other words, it is quite remarkable that such a view is said here if it is in some way opposed to what is being discussed. All right, now that there's no one here to excite the congressman, let him know that there are good things here. One such thing, however, is this camera surveillance, how it has now been recorded there. Of course, I would have liked it to have been opened more, without having such a peeping and stalking mentality on it, because we know that high-quality domestic animals and their welfare mean a lot to consumers and they are willing to pay for it — that is to say, we have opened up a little bit of this kind of voluntary camera surveillance to this legislation, so that we could have moved to more self-monitoring by stretching a little of the frame of EU controls so that we could have had the frequent inspection visits that burdened the production farms, postponed to that side of self-monitoring, as if it were possible. That would have been our position in Finland: that we have it at a good level. One can say that there is always one rotten apple in that basket, but in any case animal welfare is of particular importance to the producer, precisely because a well-being farm animal is a productive animal and one needs to work towards it. At the same time, it would have been very nice if we had had such a direction, now that this parsing debate is under way, that this issue could have been translated at this point in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, so that investment aid should be developed in such a way that it is precisely those parsing areas in which we want to build up walking facilities, so that it is also possible to walk in wintertime. I know that there are some of these asparagus where farmers have applied for investment aid but have not received it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u133	Mr President! This debate, which is very much focused on livestock, is still disturbing when it comes to animal welfare law. I understand that all animals other than farm animals belong to those animals, and there are surprisingly many other animals in this country. I would like to see these animals as much concern as those of farm animals. Of course, I understand that there is a great deal of control over farm animals. It is visited by a veterinarian and monitored, compiled statistics, examined how farm animals are kept, treated and behaved. Of course, I understand that this is an easy topic to discuss. But I would be more concerned about pets with much less control over them. It is very much the responsibility of their pet owners how they treat them, and then the authorities will only know about the extremes when those animals are really mistreated. Only then will it come to the attention and publicity of the authorities that those pets can also be mistreated. Unfortunately, even in this law, we will not be able to catch up until then. This law states that the objective is that animal welfare is influenced by the ability of animals to carry out species-specific behaviour. Well, it often comes to mind that the home rat that runs in that little cage or the hamster that pulls them on that roll for its own miles is far from the animal’s specieslike behavior. But we do not worry about it at all, and I am absolutely amazed at the fact that not all animals are taken care of in the same way. Or with the snake, the strangler snake that has been taken as an exotic animal into the twosome, the specieslike behavior is that this animal hunts by strangling game animals. Well, there's not much there but the nurses you can hunt there. That, too, there is something to be discussed about pets, and I would like that debate to be a genuine concern for all animals and for all animals as much as for these productive animals, for which I am quite certain that their care is good, because, as the representative said earlier here, the productive animal is a healthy animal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u134	Mr President! That is what I have understood, and that is where I began to say that all Finns are interested in wild animals, pets and farm animals and in their welfare. The reason why this debate has focused particularly on farmed animals is probably due to the fact that in that area the points in the draft law on which critical feedback has been given, while the views of the pet sector have been more consistent. If I now interpret this speech by Mr Pylvä, then it is obviously to be expected that there will be proposals for amendments from the Central Party on pets, and if they are good proposals, then I do not see any obstacle to the fact that they cannot then be pushed forward unanimously. But there is no such thing in this bill that would be a dispute over pets. Unanimity is rarely discussed so much. From this list of speakers, which is a multi-hundred-headed group, I think most of them are private individuals. Personally, I do not consider it relevant to raise the individual's statements in the highlighted sense, but it is not your intention to raise the veterinary union to the pedestal in relation to other authorities and commentators either. I can only see that the Association of Veterinarians is perhaps one example of a clear voicer who is no one's lobby other than veterinary doctors, whose professional ethics and duties are specifically concerned with caring for the welfare of animals. And we are dealing with the Animal Welfare Act here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u135	Mr President! We have had a very colorful debate in this referral debate on the animal welfare law, and it is likely that this will still be in the committees and in the opinions committees separately. Yes, I would like to emphasise this premise that the farm animal is well-being when the farmer is well-being, both economically, socially and functionally. In other words, in situations where these blatant violations of productive animals have occurred, either mentally tired or economically, or through both. In my opinion, this law, which is now being done here, allows production to be transferred over long transitional periods to another type. The issue has been raised, for example, in the case of asparagus or sports opportunities. In my opinion, this law gives productive animals a very good starting point for the place where they live — about access to food, water, mobility, then about this pain, stunning and also about control of slaughter, that is, every aspect of the animal's life cycle. We are talking about the eggs of a happy chicken, but I believe that if this law is dealt with, these will also be happy chickens after they have been involved in the production period. I also stressed in the past that, in fact, even this outside harassment, which happens to fox farmers and others, that there should have been surprise attacks and so forth, should have been more punishable. According to the Minister, this is, of course, the ministry's area of activity, also in the discussion that attention should be paid to these issues. Even on the domestic side, there are very good improvements in the fact that dogs will be marked, perhaps in a later period also chipped, or chipping will be mandatory. This law itself had the restriction or involvement of these large livestock populations that went wild. So this is a very good starting point, and I hope for this fresh and lively debate. Let us finally bring forward a long-standing piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u136	Mr President! I would like to pick up on what Mr Pirttila has said and, yesterday, Mr Eestilä, that when a person is well, the animal is well. When we remember more than a year ago, I think it will be two years before the MOT program, which came from the slaughterhouses, I quote freely from Brother-Matti, Chairman of the Federation of Food Workers, who said that where the worker and the working woman are well, the animals are well there too. So it does spring from the fact that the well - being person does his work well and, when it is in a good position, things go right. This dog chipping in the future is particularly important. We've got some glaring puppy jobs. We should be able to extend, if not now, the controls so much as to the kennel activities of dogs to what conditions these dogs are under in these so-called puppy factories. Because there is a shocking amount of it happening. The kennel union will instruct you on how many litters... I remember it as a former breeder, there is still a kennel name Paret, that was it so that eight months had to matter. But this is done in such a way that each run after the puppies is mated, not just the others are put in papers. So we have to be able to bring this through the chip below. We have organisations, we already have organisations in this country that can take control of it, otherwise it will be too expensive if the authorities start to manage this chip control. These chippers are found in an organization under the Kenne League in every province, i.e. in every province there are those who mean dogs, so that there is no need to make this a bureaucratic, expensive flower in this country. I do not know how this could be dealt with in committee to prevent this sale of puppies from abroad. If we look at social media, there is a lot of trade in dogs and small animals, which has very great economic significance. I believe that Kennelliliitto and the Finnish Association for the Service Dogs will certainly be the kind of people that should be heard in committee, that what can be done, because there is now a lot of pressure to ban it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u137	Mr President! I would now like to point out, also with regard to these experts and the rapporteurs, that I did not in any way question the expertise of the Veterinary Association during the preparatory phase of the opinion. But last night it was just eye-to-eye when the Veterinarian Association was so [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude] Let me take one example of their comments, which is extremely important: 24/7 on-call for small animals. It is exactly what they must drive, and we must also consider it so that it is possible for the new province also to be responsible for achieving it 24/7. When we talk about pets, when we talk about farm animals, farm animals need 24/7 on-call, it must be able to take care of, but above all also the owners of their pets, there is a dog or cat or guinea pig or undulate, there must be the possibility of receiving the 24/7 emergency services and still at a reasonable distance, so that care for the welfare of the animal also becomes unreasonably expensive in the event of illness. We all know that then, many times, when it comes to the economic aspect of caring for a sick pet, we can still look at day two and we can say that now we are no longer going 300 km away to care for our beloved pet, because well-being is no longer secure. This needs to be taken into account. Indeed, when Mrs Myllykoski raised the subject of this puppy factory, it is precisely we in the committee that should hear about this issue and also have a strong view of what we want to do about it in the report. In my opinion, I think I made it clear in the speech, we should take it fairly so that this puppy production is an activity under the Y logo. So it is also taxable, VAT-based activity, so that it is monitored and cleared up in every way, and so that the Kennel League also actually starts to make sure that those dogs are not put on every run. So, yeah, we have a lot to do together. I hope that we will also take a strong position on this in committee. And of course, of course it is also the fact that we must not say in principle of any breed of dogs that it does not fit into our society, but we must see that its breeder is responsible, knows what breed he breeds and breeds, and, above all, when we want to take that dog or any pet, we know what breed we are committing to. We also need that knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-03-ps-94.u138	Mr President! I had to take this up because I personally do not want the Kennel League to be judged in any way in a negative tone on issues related to the breeding and care of dogs, because the Kennel Union already has its own rules, how to proceed when a certain number of puppies come. The Kennel Union has very high criteria for this, and the responsibility of the breeder is very well documented there. But what happens after a commercial agreement has been concluded: in any case, it is still the responsibility of the breeder. If the dog is so - called defective, then the responsibility of the breeder is emphasized there. I therefore believe that, in this respect, we will certainly get a fellow from the Kennel Union into the legislative drafting phase, that when we start to make a report on what means can still be highlighted, there will certainly be support there.
