ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u2	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u3	Mr President! Young people represent the future of Finland, and the important task of our decision-makers is to build for young people, future generations, better Finland and legislation than we have ever had. Young people’s faith in a better future affects whether they have the courage to build up their lives or, for example, cancel the family. Last week, the government announced quite unexpectedly that it would tailor the working conditions for young unemployed people to the weaker working conditions. In the future, a young person who has been unemployed for more than three months will be free to hire an unjustified short-term contract. Young people are deeply disappointed in this government’s decision. Many ask why the government is attacking young workers for the last time. Moreover, this decision is discriminatory. For too many young people, short-time jobs mean short-term wishes, short-term dreams and short-term lives. Minister Lindström,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u4	Madam President! Equally, the question might be raised as to why different forms of employment contracts are tailored to the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u6	Mr President! This is now a question of you putting young people in a position of inequality. Moreover, the fact that instead of a permanent employment relationship, a fixed-term employee is hired to do the same job, does not create any new jobs, but transforms the permanent into a temporary employment relationship. For example, the chairman of the Alliance of all youth organisations in Finland has said that it is very difficult to see how change would contribute to anything other than the uncertainty experienced by young people in the labour market. Mr Lindström, you will be aware that both these unjustified temporary work and this weakening of the protection against dismissal are, in fact, hitting areas where there are many young people and women working, especially young women — those who are already in a weaker position in the labour market and whose position you have been reluctant to correct, for example, by means of family leave reform. Minister, you did not answer the question. I would like to ask you again: why do young people have to work under lower working conditions than others?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u7	Madam President! We have employment growth in every group except those between the ages of 25 and 34. There the employment rate will not increase. This group is now wanted to focus on such measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u8	Mr President! Short-term work gives rise to a moment of morale. There is nothing we can do about it, that it does not bind a person. We know that we have jobs that rightly need to be carried out on fixed-term terms. We know that we have jobs that rightly vary in working hours. But the fact that we create a labour market where the employer has no basis for dismembering the work gives rise to a moment of morality. It does not create a commitment to work. And if we look at the international studies assessing the employment potential of fixed-term employment, then a thorn arises first, then it will be discovered that, in fact, that spike has only been that permanent employment has changed to fixed-term employment. Spain, for example, is currently fighting to the full with regard to the fact that too many fixed-term contracts feed on productivity there. This is where productivity is eaten and young people are discriminated against. What do you think, Prime Minister, of whether young people can be given a clearly weaker position in the labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u9	Madam President! Youth unemployment is a serious problem. We have more than 20% of youth unemployment, and even if we take out those in the army, it is clearly higher than in other population groups. This measure is a specific measure for young people to be selected when they are in a selection situation. Efforts are being made to guide employers' behaviour towards selecting a young person to give evidence at the workplace, and when a young person is able to give evidence, it is certain that the employer’s interest is not to make a short contract of employment for a young person thereafter, but to turn it into a long-term contract. The purpose of this action is to facilitate the employment situation of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u10	Madam President! Perhaps now I will open up what is being planned here, more specifically. In other words, a fixed-term contract with a person under the age of 30, who has been unemployed for at least three months, could be concluded for no reasonable reason. This project will have to take a position on the right to treat workers of different ages in different ways, as has been pointed out here. We have to look at this directive on discrimination at work, which I mentioned. According to the Non-Discrimination Act, age-based discrimination is only possible when it is based on employment and labour market policy criteria — where we look for criteria — and when the objective is to be accepted and the measure used is proportionate to the objective pursued. These are all the things we have to weigh. This preparation has been launched by clarifying the framework conditions set by the Employment Discrimination Directive and the Temporary Employment Directive and the content of the EUT solutions adopted on the Directives, the Constitution, the Equality Act and the legislation of other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u11	Mr President! The policy of this government in relation to employees, the employed and the unemployed has been very hard: first, the forced laws by which you wanted to weaken the working conditions of all people, then the large cuts in unemployment security, the holiday allowance cuts in connection with the kiky agreement, and then, in the case of the active model, the total reduction in the employment security of unemployed workers by means of the stick model. Everyone thought this was over, but then a new time came. You pointed out that we now need to reduce unemployment security, to conclude unwarranted fixed-term contracts for young people and to reduce employment security for 20 people in the workplace by reducing the grounds for dismissal. Why, Prime Minister Sipilä, does your government want to undermine the atmosphere of the labour market, create more tension and confuse the labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u12	Madam President! All this long list of measures that the government has taken to promote employment is behind the fact that it would not be as it was in the last period, that there would be 100,000 more unemployed people. Now, almost 90000 people have been employed, more than 36,000 long-term unemployed are fewer, and now we want to take action to target this same development on young job seekers, and it is also extremely important for the development of social exclusion among young people and also for the prospect of young people being able to study, gain access to employment and hope for a better future. These measures aim at improving the labour market position of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u13	Mr President! It is great that you are now in a favourable mood in the world economy and with the funding of the European Central Bank and that we have made the economy grow and employment improve. That's really great, and I'm really happy about it. But, Prime Minister Sipilä, the question was for Minister Lindström: Why are you targeting young people, weakening their working conditions and job security? Why do you want to divide the labour market in two, to create those people with low employment security and those who do not have low employment security? Why do you want to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u14	Mr President! I have already replied that because of the same reduction in unemployment among young people as we have managed to reduce unemployment among other population groups, other age groups. And as Mr Lindström described well, this applies to young people who have been unemployed for at least three months, and after that this will make it easier for them to find employment, thereby reducing unemployment among young people. This is the purpose of this measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u15	There are also other questions coming up on this subject: the next speaker, Mrs Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u16	Madam President! Once again, the government is pouring ice-cold water on the back of Finnish workers. If you look at the cutbacks and the extension of working time, you will be faced with this weakening of the employment contract law. In the spending limits debate, you decided to target young people specifically in this weakening of the protection against dismissal. This applies to almost half a million employees. You want to make it easier to kick these out now, that's what it looks like. At present, many homes are wondering how to cope and how to cope with the costs of everyday living and living if the job leaves. And the situation is not good at the moment, as more and more people are working short-term and under-employed. So I ask the government: is it the right way to continue to weaken the position of workers and to foment uncertainty? Is this how you create faith in these young workers who want to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u17	Madam President! We want people to be able to work, whether they are young, elderly or anyone who is available to the labour market. Of course, it is obvious that when you are in the opposition, you read it selectively about everything the government has decided and forget what the positive government has also decided. If you were to look at what we have decided in the discussion on the protection of dismissal in order to clarify the needs of the reform of the cooperation law, the balance has been struck in this study in the fact that if an individual is seeking to relax it, then for the sake of balance, the other side of collective dismissal will be considered whether there is any possibility of tightening up. When you say that we are not defending an employee, I claim that we are a government that defends employees in such a way that people can get to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u18	Mr President! Youth unemployment is not due to a lack of labour market flexibility, as there are already some flexibility. Young adults work on zero-hour contracts, young adults work on fixed-term contracts, young adults work on replacements and work on self-employment. Instead, the message of this government decision to young Finns is firstly not to understand the reality of young people's labour market and the reality of everyday life, and secondly, to ignore the fact that uncertainty is still growing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u21	Madam President! The argument that we do not understand the position of young people in the labour market is, in my view, incomprehensible. If we take measures aimed at bringing young people to work, then it is now the best medicine for young people and for all. I have now tried to make a point of saying that this legislation cannot be reckless, and this must be seen according to these marginal conditions, what kind of regulation it is. Or do you think that a specific solution should not be tailored to the long-term unemployed? That too goes through the constitutional review only because of the employment criterion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u22	Madam President! I am sitting right here next to Mr Lindström, and the good thing about that is that when Mr Lindström answered the first question raised by Mr Sem, I saw clearly that your ears were shaking when you said that the government was defending the position of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u25	Mr President! I couldn't find the question, but I'm gonna tape my ears off right away so they don't swing. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u29	Madam President! I understand that we share the concerns of our young people in this Chamber. The truth is that an increasing number of young people are homeless, a greater number of marginalised, a greater proportion of those living alone. Kids don't have the guts to start a family. They dare not set it up because of the uncertainty of life. There's no more retirement for them. In fact, we are in quite an historic moment because for the first time we have a group of young people whose future looks worse and more uncertain than their parents. Up to now, it has been possible to promise young people something better. And that is why we ask: why do you want to respond to this cry by undermining the labour market position of young people, job security and, for example, do not go ahead with a reform of family leave, which would be a long-term solution and would provide a more permanent solution to make the future of our young people look better?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u30	Mr President! I'll try my best to answer calmly without the ears shaking. The future of young people seems to be weaker, and that is why we are trying to find a solution to the fact that the employment threshold for this group will also improve. This is not about trampling on the rights of young people, but about getting young people to work. We know this through the so-called NEET ministerial group that we have many young people who have fallen completely outside this society. They also call for specific measures. If it is felt that these actions are somehow oppressive and so far away, then I deny it. We are looking for a balanced whole so that these people can enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u31	Mr President! The feedback I have received about this weakening of working conditions is more or less as follows: Do you not understand in Parliament that the generation of people under thirty is the generation that was born in Lama-Finland? When this generation began to become independent, to move away from home, the economic crisis of 2008 hit. Now that this generation is for the first time acquiring a permanent employment relationship, acquiring housing, thinking about the family, how does this future of everyday life, trust in society, in general, believe that tomorrow will be better, if one age group is put in a lower caste in matters of working life? How do you, Minister Lindström, respond to the concerns of these young people about how to prevent, among other things, the endless chaining of these things with regard to these young people? How to prevent this kind of endless working life limbo, where three months are unemployed, get into a fixed-term employment relationship, while three months are unemployed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u32	Madam President! Somehow, I would like to believe that the fact that this young person can get to work at all is that he should have faith in that future. In many cases that fixed-term employment relationship can then be the gateway to that more permanent employment relationship, and that is what we are looking for. Of course, it is clear that I myself have experience of a fixed-term employment relationship. I have experience of dismissal, I have been their target, so I claim to know what I am talking about, and yes I am saying this now that something must be done and opened up if we have so many long-term unemployed. I repeat: is it not right that they should be subject to specific measures? If there is a group like this, a group of young people who are not employed as well as others, then is it not right to think about them with special measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u33	Mr President! Yesterday we had the Growth Services Act in the debate, and that is where Mr Heinäluoma talked about the fact that Minister Lindström is going to go down in history by shutting down the public employment services. You said it was true — it's probably in interlude. You have now told us that there is an employment criterion and that the government has found it. I would now like to hear the reasons for where you have found this for 30 years. You told us that you have also considered the constitutionality. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I look forward to the argument that you give this argument about this particular age that you are putting young people in a position of inequality. You have a burden of proof on this issue, and I hope that the level of legislation is better than what we now have in the Constitutional Committee. There are a lot of problems, for example, in these social packages, and if that is the level, then a blob.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u34	Mr President! I couldn't find the question, but more claims. The longer the unemployment of a young person reaches, the harder it will be to find work for a young person and the greater the risk of exclusion. Three months is the time that goes by and then the risk of long-term unemployment increases. At the beginning of the millennium, nearly 90% of men aged between 25 and 29 were employed. In 17 C.E., this figure had fallen close to 85 percent. The employment rate of men aged 24-29 has fallen from around 81% in 2000 to 77% in 17. The employment rate for women was around 66% and 70% in 2000 and 17% respectively. So the women had higher. Something has to be done because statistics show that this is the case. That is why we have intervened in this group in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u35	Madam President! Minister Lindström, I'd like to ask you: What evidence is there that this employer's employment threshold, as you said, has improved in any country as a result of a similar measure? What kind of research is there on this subject internationally, and has this been tried anywhere else? Finally, I remember well when a few years ago your 50th birthdays were celebrated. The nice ones were the kinks,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u36	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Eerola. Let's start remembering the old. How would you have felt? I'd probably have barked up all these shows, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u37	Mr President! I too have received a lot of touching feedback from people who feel that their job security and their income security during unemployment have been weakened. In their experience, people experience worthlessness, insecurity, needlessness, and lack of trust in them. They are bad experiences of inequality. Above all, this weakening of the protection of redundancies for companies with fewer than 20 employees is a great deal to talk about. When there are constructive alternatives, there is an alternative to this reduction in unemployment security and employment security, and that is to support employment conditions for SMEs and lower the threshold. We have three proposals: introducing an employment voucher of EUR 700, facilitating the recruitment of the first employee with a compensation of EUR 20000;
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u39	Mr President! The ideas of Mr Ihalainen, or of the Social Democrats, are quite worthy, and I am sure that this is what we ourselves did when we were in the opposition during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u41	Madam President! It is apparent from this debate that the demos and the left-wing alliance have fallen in love with the structures, now that we have to listen to what the young people themselves need and want. Young people who are most isolated are not even included in unemployment statistics. This morning, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health held a seminar here in Parliament on the theme ‘Support for children and young people’. There Icehearts, the Me Foundation and the psychosocial support of the Ohjaamos included the wonderful work they are doing in the field. A direct quote from the debate on what young people want: ‘Let’s give them a little more work experience. “ That was the most important thing these young people in isolation wanted. It turned out that not even new money is necessary, but a new kind of activity, the spread of good practice, knowledge-based activities with these marginalised young people. They hoped that convincing methods should be instilled. So I ask Minister Saariko: what are we going to do to ensure that the valuable work of the organisations in the provinces continues and is better than ever?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u42	Mr President! The target group of young people, aged under 30, includes as many stories and life situations as there are. It is one thing to talk about a person who has left school without education and who is at risk of exclusion in many ways than about an academically educated person in his early 30s who is looking for work. But this debate and the question certainly referred in particular to those who are still in the very early stages of their working lives, where we have seen that the good social guarantee for young people that has been put in place during the last parliamentary term is not yet, as such, biting off as jobs or training places, but we need psychosocial support for young people. For this purpose, we have focused an entire Ohjaamo system on young people's access to employment and education and have now strengthened this with psychosocial support, which has asked young people themselves for their views. And the answer is always the same: we need safe adults, people walking alongside us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u43	Madam President! The economy is growing, new jobs are being created in this country, and unemployment is making it easier, but in many places, in fact, we are beginning to see that we do not have a skilled workforce, i.e. jobs and workers do not face up to it. In Kainuu, Satakunta, and In fact, Lapland has one of the biggest recruitment problems. We also have 660,000 people on primary school only. Their employment rate is only about 40%. I would like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: what kind of action have you taken in the government to catch up with these young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u44	Mr President! When it comes to young people and the uncertainty of the future, we adults have a big responsibility in how to talk about the future for young people and what opportunities to build. That is why I feel strongly that both education and the fact that more and more young people have access to work is the best remedy for insecurity, and that is what the government is trying to do. We are also beginning to have evidence of this, because at the moment the economy is growing and there is more and more work to be done in Finland, and it is now important that young people also get involved and that no young people fall, and here we have a lot to do. The education system is currently undergoing reforms in all steps, starting with early childhood education, which is an effective means of preventing exclusion in the long term. Similarly, this problem of availability of skilled labour has been identified. The government made big decisions last week: EUR 54 million, and this year, to secure the availability of skilled labour, a variety of new kinds of conversion training and other solutions, and much more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u45	Mr President! After listening to this debate, the government’s logic seems to be that the only thing that works for unemployment is the weaker working conditions. If there are groups that find it difficult to find employment, such as older people with a migrant background, mothers of young children, is it the case that the next method for them is less favourable working conditions, or whether in Eastern Finland, where unemployment is higher, unjustified temporary work will be made available in the future? The government is trying to justify that this would be, as it were, in the interests of young people. Well, have you heard the comments made by young people and youth organisations? One said that I do not follow this line, that young people must also be on the labour market on an equal footing with everyone else. At the same time as concerns about birth rates increase the uncertainty of young people in working life. So said Suvi Mäkeläinen, chairman of the Prime Minister’s own youth organisation. Prime Minister, now that your own young people have been appalled, let me ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u46	Madam President! 90,000 people have been employed by the actions of this government and by the growth that has been accomplished. Now we must continue to take specific measures to achieve that next level, 75%, the employment rate and how we can solve the problems we still have here, and one of these problems is youth unemployment. It hasn't healed as fast as we'd like. This is precisely where we have taken these specific measures. This is one of the actions that has been taken. It must be borne in mind that this measure is aimed at those young people who have been unemployed for three months or more and who, as the Minister for Employment said, are at the risk of their unemployment turning into long-term unemployment and turning into hopelessness and then perhaps is also the beginning of the process of exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u47	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u48	Mr President! According to constitutional experts, asylum seekers' rights and legal protection have been undermined at different stages and, overall, far too much. Now the French court blocked the return to Finland again — the French court prevented the return to Finland again. It is alarming that even a court in another EU country does not trust our asylum procedure. The foreign law alone has been amended more than 30 times in recent years without even an assessment of the whole. Furthermore, researchers have shown that the Finnish Immigration Service has tightened its asylum line drastically in just a few years. An in-depth overall assessment of the Finnish asylum policy is urgently needed. I'll ask the Minister. From a mute point of view: what measures do you intend to take to ensure legal protection and human rights for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u49	Mr President! First of all, Mrs Aalto referred to this individual decision of the Lyon Appeal Court to prevent the return of an individual Afghan case to Finland. In January, for the first time, the same court made a decision, then maintained it after the appeal. Since then, France itself has also returned Afghans to Finland, which is in so far as this is the interpretation of an individual court specifically concerning the situation in Afghanistan, Kabul, which differs from what is the practice in Finland, Sweden and Norway. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Therefore, the interpretation of the Lyon Court also applies to Sweden. As far as this broader picture is concerned, while ensuring the manageability of immigration and the smooth functioning of asylum-seeking procedures, it is very important that we ensure that there are no systematic features in our process that would pose a risk of non-execution of rights. In order to ensure this, we have now also started the analysis work separately, in cooperation with the SM and Migri,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u50	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u51	Mr President! It is a good thing that Mr Mykkänen has caught up in this matter and is doing internal analysis and dialogue, but it is not enough, Minister, because we are now on such a fundamental issue from the point of view of the rule of law that we also need an independent and thorough investigation and action. I hope that Mr Mykkänen will not hide behind timetables on this issue. But, Mr President, there is another real question. Currently, the Finnish Aliens Act is based on the fact that a person who comes to Finland as a minor does not have the possibility of family reunification if he or she reaches the age of 18 during the process. Now, however, Finland's legislation needs to be changed, as the recent ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union shows that the situation has changed. According to it, it is sufficient that the applicant has arrived in Finland as a minor in order to be entitled to family reunification. What measures have you now taken to ensure that these applicants and others in a similar situation:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u52	Mr President! The Finnish Immigration Service has immediately begun to apply this line in line with the ruling of the EU Court of Justice and, as I have said, I very much welcome the fact that the European Court of Justice will clarify the interpretation of the directive throughout the EU. In this case, in the case of family reunification, where a minor has entered the EU and has reached the age of 18 during the course of the proceedings, it is not the problem of this applicant if the process has stretched even for reasons beyond his/her control. This will be the case throughout the EU, which will also not become a separate driving factor when it comes to looking for applicants in one Member State. As such, this is a matter of direct application by a decision of the EU Court of Justice. Of course, the law on foreigners should be updated in accordance with this judgment, and this will be done at the same time as many other clarifications and changes will be made to the law on foreigners during this year, in any event, with the projects already planned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u53	Mr President! It is unacceptable if asylum seekers are returned to countries where they are in danger of life, and I therefore believe that it is justified that: Finland would look at the list of safe countries that has now been followed, and from the point of view of the idea that in some countries there are both unsafe and safe areas. The situation in these countries is rapidly escalating. The second question is: our legal system must be complete and guarantee genuine, good, high-quality processes for asylum seekers, but legal aid has been pinched in recent years. Mr Häkkänen promised that he would commission a study on the quality and availability of legal assistance in asylum processes. I would ask Minister Häkkä to see if this study has progressed and what steps the government is taking to improve legal aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u54	Mr President! As in many other EU countries, Finland has faced an exceptional phenomenon of immigration. At the same time, it requires a warm heart but also cold realism that the system must be manageable. In this respect, we have had to take measures to control the situation. Now, as the questioner has said, these measures, which have been taken in the area of legal security, will be investigated. The study has just been launched, and I believe there will be some kind of interim report during the autumn on the effects, for example, on legal security. I would like to emphasise that on the legal security side we have increased control and eligibility criteria, but now this study will see whether there is sufficient increase. In other words, we went in a better direction with these legislative changes, but now we will see in peace, on the basis of a study, whether or not we still need to have some sort of reform, and we will certainly do so if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u55	Mr President! Almost every day we get to read in the news or in messages sent to us how inhumane Finland’s asylum policy is perceived. People’s family members and spouses are denied entry into Finland or are turned away. The asylum process is perceived to be weak. There are problems with interpretation and legal aid, and people’s stories are not being properly heard. People are being returned from Finland to unsafe conditions. We are not the only ones in this Chamber who are concerned about the legal security of asylum seekers and the problems of the asylum process. As has been heard, the French Court has also been concerned and experts have also been concerned about the impact of a number of amendments to the Aliens Act on the legal protection of asylum seekers. If there are problems in this process, it can cost people's lives and lives. We have a big responsibility to make this process work. I would like to ask the Minister: are you now going to carry out an independent external study on the impact of legislative changes and on the implementation of legal protection for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u56	Mr President! Firstly, the big picture is, of course, that we have had more than 40,000 asylum seekers in a few years, when a huge number of people came to Europe, and the fact that individual cases of these arise must not in itself conceal the great interpretation. When you look at it analytically, I say that it will take an assessment of how the processes work. At the same time, as I said earlier, it does not allow us to shirk the responsibility of doing everything we can to ensure that human rights are implemented as well as possible in individual cases, as difficult as it is in all cases to get the right information in these, as everyone honestly understands. If we were to reserve all the needs for clarification on the basis of an external evaluation, to which Mr Aalto also referred, it would unfortunately take a year and a half before anything was done. That is why I want to do internal analysis and clarifications already in the summer. I know that the Minister of Justice has already started work on legal aid, which, of course, also aims to make clarifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u57	Mr President! According to the Constitution, every person, not just a citizen, but a person, has adequate legal protection and access to it. Legal aid is a key mechanism for its implementation. At international level, Finland has estimated primary legal aid, a very good legal aid. Anyone, including an asylum seeker, who is seeking legal aid has, in principle, also received it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u60	Mr President! Immigrants are not asylum seekers. They may become such if they are found to be in need of protection and unable to return to their country of origin. Of course, all are individual cases, and it is understandable that ministers cannot comment on individual cases. On the other hand, these individual cases, which are all people, consist of this entity. It has now happened that, during this government, this Finnish asylum policy, with its return to dangerous conditions, has led to Finland’s reputation clearly falling into questionable light in international comparisons. I would ask the Prime Minister: given that even when this crisis started, you quite rightly said about this need for asylum that it must be granted to everyone in need, are you concerned about what has happened to Finland's reputation in this regard? This would be a reason to make corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u61	Mr President! Yes, in comparison, we are on the same level as the Nordic countries. And this was an exceptional situation that faced Finland and the whole of the Nordic region and Europe in 2015. We have an extremely committed and good service that performs its tasks well and strives for every just decision, a personal decision. But it is clear that our resources have been tight, as have our neighbours, such as Sweden, where there were even more asylum seekers than there were in Finland. And just as the ministers said, we are monitoring the situation, constantly correcting and making decisions. I have never received such a message that Finland's reputation has deteriorated here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u62	Madam President! I thought I had heard everything in this Chamber before, but I did not know that I had to worry that if an Afghan asylum seeker were to be returned here to the original country, it would be seen as an inhuman act or that place as something dangerous to the applicant who has unjustly sought asylum here. Although I did come from France on Saturday myself, and there were a lot of armed men on the streets in Strasbourg and elsewhere, and it can be assumed that France too will soon be a very unsafe place, because this immigration policy in Europe has been so poor. We're going to let anyone here who wants to wage war against this Western society. So I ask the Minister now: what are we going to do about 400 asylum seekers who have been classified as dangerous people who are linked to terrorism, something that the protection police themselves have been repeating to us here in Parliament for two or three years? Why can they not even be detained until they are fully convinced that they are not a threat to this society?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u63	Mr President! At present, persons who need to be detained for security reasons are detained on the basis of a krp threat assessment. As has been said a few times here, the fact that more people are being detained is only a waste of taxpayers' money. We prefer to use it more effectively for the safety of Finns. In this respect, we have no acute problem at all. It has been invested in it, and it is good that it has been mentioned here too, that we must, as part of the management of the phenomenon of immigration, but also as part of our domestic situation, invest more in the root causes of terrorism and in tackling the phenomena of terrorism and seize people in good time. Last week a report came out on the state of play of anti-extremism work, and we must remember, however, that the most common cause of terrorism in Finland is extreme right-wing movement and domestic exclusion. Of course, immigration is also a phenomenon to which attention must be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u64	Next question, Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u65	Irade the Talman! Trust in the rule of law and in the authorities is precious, and even when situations become a little more challenging, it is important not to give up on these principles. I therefore believe that the political decision-makers should be quite concerned that our high-ranking authorities, such as the President of the KHO and academics and the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, have drawn particular attention to the way in which we can now rely on our official processes. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has submitted his first report to Parliament and notes that there are groups of people in Finland whose access to their rights has been compromised, such as the elderly, disabled persons, ethnic minorities and asylum seekers we have just talked about. Now is not the time to wait for clarifications or a better government. I think it is in everyone's interest that we intervene, for example, in Migri's activities and change practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u66	Mr President! I have read this report by the Ombudsman for Equality. I would not draw the conclusion that the neutrality, competence, independence of Finnish civil service work has been completely compromised, under no circumstances. In Finland, government activities are based on law and good governance and are very high-quality in international comparisons. As in all other countries, mistakes occur, wrongs arise. It is part of human error. To that end, we have a very thorough and effective judicial review in this country, the Chancellor of Justice, the Ombudsman and other actors. And whether it is the rights of the mentally disabled, the rights of linguistic minorities or, for example, the rights of a normal Finnish middle-aged person, everyone’s rights are enforced in this country, both by the court and by these law enforcement officers, and this Chamber will ultimately be seized.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u67	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u68	Madam President! That is why we have a Non-Discrimination Ombudsman who rightly pays attention to such shortcomings, and I do not think we can afford to deal with it as in any report. I also think that the fact that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the European Court of Human Rights are focusing our attention on the fact that our level of human rights monitoring is not sufficient is a cause for concern. Finland has traditionally not been a country that tries to go where the fence is lowest, but vice versa. What is the government going to do to make us an ambitious country for the implementation of human rights again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u69	Mr President! This government has promoted human rights both on the domestic front and on the international front, promoting a balanced future for all citizens. On Thursday, for example, I myself made a strong speech on behalf of the European Convention on Human Rights in Denmark, where the Turkish and Russian Justice Ministers were also on the other side. On the domestic front, we must take measures to control the economy of this country, but also the issues of immigration and other surprising phenomena, and to bring the future to a sustainable balance. It sometimes calls for measures to compromise on certain issues, but there is no compromise on such matters as those on which the Constitutional Committee would say, for example, that this is contrary to human rights treaties or is contrary to the Constitution. In fact, this Parliament has also made sure that there are no laws in force in this country which would be contrary to human rights treaties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u70	Next question, Mr Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u71	Mr President! The power of insurance doctors to dispute the diagnosis of treating doctors is a major challenge to the public's sense of justice. Yesterday, on the day of the patient's rights, a citizens' initiative was handed over to Parliament to put an end to the arbitrariness of insurance doctors. The initiative has almost 60,000 signatories, which is a strong statement from the citizens. During this period, the Finns of Finland have also made a bill on the matter. All in all, there have been dozens of parliamentary acts on this subject by almost all parties. Would it be time, Mr Government, to change this system, which is perceived as unfair? I would like to ask the minister concerned: do you support the idea of a citizens' initiative to abolish the arbitrariness of insurance doctors?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u72	Madam President! As far as I am aware, however, there is no law on arbitrary behaviour, but it is true that we have certainly all received a lot of feedback on this in this Chamber. The citizens' initiative has now come to Parliament and has been properly dealt with here. At the same time, at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I have set up a advisory board to review the insurance doctor system. In my view, with all the feedback, it is clear that this advisory board is needed, which also includes the representation of patient organisations, the representation of doctors. Then the Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, is in charge of insurance law. This council will begin its work this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u73	Next question, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u74	Mr President! Finland just turned 100, and Israel celebrates its 70th anniversary this spring. There are interesting historical aspects between the state independence of Israel and Finland. Israel has the same right of existence as Finland. There was a big article in the Evening Sanomat today entitled “Does Suomijihad Teach? “ For decades, the Palestinian Authority has been generously supported by the Finnish State, including through development cooperation funds. It would be very unfortunate if our tax money were indirectly to end up in terrorist activity. Every generation, every government is responsible for its own actions and time. I ask the government: what will the government do in this situation? Why don't you freeze the grant money, as Norway and Denmark have done?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u75	Madam President! The State of Israel is turning years, and tomorrow is the annual reception, which I will be participating in as Finland's Foreign Minister. It is a strong statement in favour of the existence of the State of Israel. I explained this at the Ministry, this book issue, and if the problems raised in textbooks are true, they will be taken seriously. Finland is always following the investigation with other donor countries, and this has already been discussed with the Ministry of Education of the Palestinian Authority, but we also support the fact that Palestinian children will learn and that they will have the tools to survive in this world so that they do not end up on the recruitment lists of jihadists and other terrorists.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u76	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u77	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Once again, we have one citizens' initiative on the table, and I personally believe that this system of citizens' initiatives is important and I am not in favour of, for example, increasing the number of signatures. This is one good democratic way of bringing things up. In this citizens' initiative, I would particularly like to express my appreciation for the fact that this has been built in the way I might wish in the future, in other words, that it is a clear expression of will that the government should take some measures. Regrettably, we have had citizens' initiatives in this House, of which it has then been said in committee that there are so many technical problems that they cannot be brought forward, in other words, they have gone behind technical or minor mistakes in a matter where there is real truth and need to be action. This citizens' initiative is an important issue because we need to take measures to promote employment. There has been a significant turnaround in the economy. Now the economy is on a broad scale and economic growth is strong. Thus, employment will also improve and unemployment in Finland will be facilitated. In fact, unemployment has fallen in all regions and good development is expected to continue in the near future. The situation of the long-term unemployed and the young unemployed has also been eased, and new measures are still needed for the future. Open jobs are available, but the unemployment rate remains high. There are still many unemployed people and, at the same time, there are tens of thousands of job vacancies in our country. The problem of meeting is obvious and I therefore think it is important that there is now a significant amount of additional investment in conversion and continuing training. There must be someone who did this and, above all, work for the person who did it. In order to implement active job search support and better service for jobseekers, the Government decided last week in the spending limits debate, following a proposal by Minister of Employment Jari Lindström, to increase the human resources of Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) for more than 200 person-years. This is an important measure and assistance for many unemployed people. Next year, more than 10 million additional appropriations will be added to the budget for the recruitment of additional staff and this year, this additional payment will benefit from previous appropriations. It is good that the job seeker gets more personal help and support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u80	Let's open a debate here. I would ask you who want to participate in the debate to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u81	Mr President! It is a good thing that Mr Heinonen is honest in his speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u84	Madam President! Today, in Question Time, the government has said a great deal about how they want to increase the employment opportunities of young unemployed people. But then, on the other hand, Minister Mykkänen, through the media, has said that he would be prepared to increase the availability of foreign labour, i.e. to remove the need test from the foreign labour force, which will increase these workers here. That again reduces the chance for a Finnish unemployed person to get a job, and when it is not available, the active model cuts off the young person. Now that a young person is trying to get a job by force, anything must be accepted, and while Minister Orpo has spoken to this through the media that, if you do not have the skills, you can cut your salary a little bit, that is to say, you can get a lower salary than the list salary, so it seems that the government is squatting and this citizens' initiative is really welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u85	Mr President! That's a pretty good memory of modern history. However, work is the best social security. When you look at who started different cane arrangements to deal with unemployment, for example, in 96 the unemployed under 20 years of age could only receive labour market support from the time they took part in active measures. Income was cut by 20% if the unemployed refused labour policy measures. There are a number of measures like this in the 1990s. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u86	Mr President! It's not a social security job, is it? Social security is social security, and work is a way to earn a living by selling its own working hours. It's good to keep these two apart, even though they seem to get pretty messed up sometimes. It is also worth remembering that, since the increase in the sanctions for unemployment security since the 1990s, the number of incomeless households has quadrupled — fourfold — and there are also a huge number of children in these families. It also means that the households with the greatest possible red tape trap and the minimum economic incentive are four times more than they were in the 1990s, and the active model, now that we know what it has brought, will continue this development further. Let's stop people from going to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u87	Mr President! There has been very rhetorical talk here about stick and carrots, but it is actually the same thing, that is, how economically attractive it is to be at work compared to how attractive it is to live on transfers. And no matter how upset we tried to be about this, yet a very solid survey of all countries like us, especially the Nordic countries, shows that this economic incentive for work is of great importance to the unemployment rate. So we shouldn't apologize for this at all. This is a sensible Scandinavian policy, especially as, if you look at unemployment statistics in Europe, Finland is a unique case here in Northern Europe: all the countries in the EU, where unemployment is still higher than we are, are Mediterranean countries. The government has made an honest move here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u88	Mr President! If you look at and compare us with the Nordic countries, it is good to remember that we actually have a very low level of unemployment protection as compared to Sweden, compared with Denmark. Now the government will reduce this unemployment security even further and, above all, from those who are the most vulnerable in the labour market. Here the representatives of the government parties claim that this citizens’ initiative — which is by the way the second most popular citizens’ initiative in all of Finland’s history, which has been the second highest in record time — is a form of insinuation, but it is not so, it is the title of this citizens’ initiative that is ‘repealed’ this active model of government. Mr President! Minister, you are now faced with a proposal to abolish your unfair model of sledgehammers and cutters. This is one of the most unjust proposals of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u91	Mr President! It is very sad to hear that the government parties are still not taking seriously the anxiety that this active model has driven the poorest unemployed. It was very shocking to hear Mr Vartiainen speak. Before Christmas, when the debate took place in this Chamber, we said on many occasions that the Constitutional Committee was right when it felt that this law would treat the unemployed in very different ways, depending on the side of Finland, the age of Finland, the educational background. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that this does not treat people equally and should therefore not be regulated. Now that we have received statistics from Kela on who this cutter has hit and what kind of places, that in other places as many as 80 per cent of the unemployed have been cut, others have cut by 20 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u92	Mr President! If you get to know the data, you will find that unemployment benefit in Finland is not particularly limited compared to other Nordic countries. Take a look at the recent book by Christian Democrat Party Secretary Asmo Maaselä on social security reform. These descriptions of Mr Lindtman are incorrect. But then here's what Mr. Alkanko-Kahiluoto said: However, we must remember the nature of our open economic system. If there are no job opportunities somewhere, it is not the intention that social security will then be maintained until the end of life. Our entire market economy is based on people who are capable of working taking care of themselves and, if necessary, moving away from work. If this is not understood, then we will never have a chance to finance our welfare expenses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u93	Mr President! The current government has found a common value base whose main objective is to break the general tenacity of the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u97	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative. This has been a very important initiative. It has also had a major impact on public debate and also on what the government is doing. The government has now made its first retreat. When we first talked about this here in Parliament last year, it was said that these problems of livelihood and these difficulties are a deterrent to the opposition, that this will work and that these people will find work. Now we know that this did not happen; the cutter has worked. The authors of this initiative made this a big deal and have forced the government to slowly turn its sled. This model, which has been presented here, is very unfair because it means that unemployment benefit will be cut even if you have done everything you can to find a job. If you can't find it, unemployment benefit will go away. This is the same thing as the sickness allowance: if you do not get well, the sickness allowance will be cut because you have to be active. I ask Minister Mattila: will this change in sickness allowance come next from you before you finish your ministerial work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u98	Madam President! This model is so unfair precisely because it punishes the unemployed who do their best, who are seriously looking for jobs even in the whole country, but when they fail to do so, they are affected by this cutter. But even worse, this cutter now also applies to a large number of people who are employed for 18 hours or as an entrepreneur. That cutter applies to them in such a way that, for example, Finka's contributions are currently processed with a delay of four weeks, i.e. one month, when you normally receive earnings-related unemployment benefit in a couple of days. This means that for an unemployed person who has employed himself, there is a very similar cut-off and a long-term threat to livelihood and a very high risk of taking up a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u100	Mr President! This is where many representatives speak in general about employment policy and labour policy, but the more than 140 000 people who signed this citizens' initiative hope that we will now focus on this active cutter and on correcting the serious mistake that was made when this law was adopted. That is what Parliament now has the opportunity to do. As to the direction of the government, it was said several times that this is not a cutter. Now we know at this point that this is a cutter. According to Kela’s preliminary data, this cuts the basic security of nearly one hundred thousand unemployed people receiving Kela benefits. The information provided by unemployment funds is similar. This was supposed to activate. There is no evidence that this has significantly increased activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u101	Mr President! The active model actually received feedback even before the law was passed, and from the proposal made by the centre as a statement approved by Parliament, it became that this proposal should be returned to,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u104	Mr President! I myself am rather concerned about the tone of the treatment of the unemployed, especially those who have been subjected to this cut. Often they try to find work, get to the services, but they do not succeed, and they quite rightly feel that this is infinitely unfair, so for this very reason I find quite unreasonable such tone of voice that they would somehow be lazy or they would not think this would be worthwhile. As Mr Vartiainen is well aware, we in the committee had a very thorough consultation on this and the government itself estimated that this would increase income support by 10 million and that this would target the most vulnerable, part-time workers, different regions and so on, so that this was already known when this was laid down, but now they have been realised. This should definitely be corrected, as this is a direct income cut from all the lowest incomes and threatens to drive them into new income traps on the side of income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u106	Minister Lindström, 3 minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u107	Thank you, Mr President. A few comments on this debate: If we start with what we are trying to achieve in general terms: The aim here is to increase employment by 8,000 people. This active model has no savings objective. The development of unemployment security through the active model and related days is part of the Government's action programme under point 10 of the employment policy, as has been pointed out several times. Listening to these speeches here, I certainly do not remember saying at any point that this active model is somehow perfect and that there is nothing to correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u114	Minister Mattila again, and then we'll have another debatable tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u115	Madam President! First of all, Mr Nurminen, if you claim that I have argued in public that I consider the unemployed to be lazy, you are using the truth very carelessly. You're using the truth carelessly. That is not true, it is not true. The unemployed, as has been the case in the debate on this model and now in the information gathered, are a very diverse group of citizens who need different services, as Mr Lindström has said here. Then, Mr. Heinäluoma, I don't know what health insurance you were talking about. This government has at least increased the minimum daily allowance, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u121	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u122	Mr President! This is a very important citizens' initiative. Thank you for that. It shows that this operating model of the government and Lindström is very much at odds with people's sense of justice. It cannot be properly understood that a person is punished for being active and doing his best, and unemployment benefit is taken to the cutter as a thank-you. President! Minister Lindström, what you yourself said about this model: you said that this is a stone in a bun, which must now only be swallowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u125	Mr President! There's a kind of active model in New Town. There's 3,000 people out there, and now we're looking for 500 new ones. 100,000 people have been approached, heard, employed. Really, work is actively available. I very much welcome the fact that the government has now raised this reduction to EUR 450. When a person has two apartments, it also allows this other one to stay for a while. I think it is important for this monitoring, which is what exists here, so that the resources that have now been put here are put on the table and these new activation methods have been put on the table. I will acknowledge this to the government. Indeed, when there is so much work in Finland today that there is little such active activity everywhere, I believe that this situation is really, really good and will improve in this regard. This citizens' initiative is a form of democracy, and it is important that it is dealt with as it should be dealt with, and I also value it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u126	Mr President! In Kainuu, the number of job vacancies has risen from 450 to 950 in the past year, and it is in proportion to Finland's greatest need for new labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u129	Mr President! As we all know, Minister Lindström really thinks this is a stone in a bun, but I will not continue with this baking line any more than I say now that the government has detected these stones and removed them, vigorously intervened in them, as has been pointed out here. You mentioned that this is one thing on the list of tens. I understand that this has been agreed with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u132	Mr President! Now we have to correct Mr Jalo that this proposal, this flat-rate model, was indeed opposed to the whole field of labour market organisations from the employees' side and also from the employers' side, i.e. do not ski the sledgehammer here. Mr President! Minister Mattila, there is currently information on, for example, pension companies that are prescribing work trials to people to enable them to return to working life, to active employment, that in this work trial situation this active model cuts unemployment security by 5%. This is completely incomprehensible. This was known in advance when you adopted this legislation. The same applies to these part-time unemployed people who are now losing money on this model, even though they are trying to get back to work. You knew this in advance. This active model is a crisp model that cuts unemployment security and is not in the same way as a representative. The shoemaker was nice enough to pretend that it's great to have a job. This cuts the level of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u133	Mr President! The government will not escape the fact that its active model has been cutting more than every other unemployed person's basic daily allowance and labour market support since this month, starting this month. It is a good thing that minor corrections were made to this model, but it also does not remove the fact, the biggest problem, that a person can be punished for a situation that he cannot control himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u136	Minister Lindström, short answer, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u137	Mr President! I want to correct here that there will be no misunderstandings about the so-called 10th list: So we told the labour market organisations this list of tens, and they were against this particular active model from the start. That's fair to say here. But at the same time, we mentioned the other measures, such as those adopted today by the Government, which have the opportunity to study unemployment benefit for six months without considering the main and secondary activities of studies, and this is also considered to be in line with the active model. This is part of the so-called supplementary package relating to this active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u138	Mr President! If Mr Jalonen had received the impression that this demonstration of 10,000 had been arranged to support the active model, then it was good that the matter was properly corrected at this stage at the latest. [Laughter from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u141	Mr President! Many people here already seem to know how this model works, but such labour market measures actually affect the way the labour market works, and then perhaps after a few years, researchers will somehow be able to assess the likely impact. To some extent, one can realistically hope that, for example, the flow to this unemployment pension line, i.e. the additional days, will be reduced. In these first few months, we have no basis whatsoever for claiming that we know how this model works. It has been argued here that unemployment benefit will fall for some, but for those who are the most vulnerable, as has been said here, income support will then replace it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u142	Mr President! The minor corrections proposed by the government to the active model do not remove the basic problem of this model. Security will continue to be cut from those who have no action or work, i.e. they simply cannot be found once and for all, and the expansion of training that is acceptable to them or the increase in the resources of the Employment and Economic Development Offices will not change the fact that the long-term unemployed who are most in need of personal support, guidance and running alongside them will be excluded from work and services and will now be subject to those sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u145	Madam President! I am surprised at the speeches that say that different employment measures do not in some way belong in this debate. In my opinion, they do, since we now need a wide range of measures. As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out, there is no job for everyone because, for example, there is no knowledge needed in today's work. We need to take action to make it easier for young people and the long-term unemployed to find work, but one large group are these about 640,000, who depend only on primary school. Their employment rate is only 40%. I would like to ask the Minister for Employment, Mr Lindström: do you believe that they will receive training, but also further training and conversion training for the unemployed, so that these problems can be resolved when, for example, the job has not been found, even if there was a desire to go to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u146	Mr President! In December, Minister Lindström said here in Parliament that the active model was poorly prepared and I understood that he meant that it should not be taken forward at all. Well, the opposition tried to tell him that, but, under obvious necessity, Minister Lindström took that law forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u149	Madam President! During Question Time, we had a distinguished debate on youth unemployment and how to employ them. In fact, we are now having the same debate. The government has taken steps to find ways to activate young people to really take a stand on how they intend to spend their future lives. At the moment, we have a shortage of workers in many places, particularly in the metal industry, and at the same time we are discussing the fact that we also have unemployed people in the same region, but young people do not want to receive them. We really do have this problem of encounters at the moment. Can this now be done, then promoted, activated, started further training and so on, or are there other means available?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u150	Mr President! If it were really the case that young people did not want to accept the job and the reason for our problems would be that young people and people would not accept the job at all, then we would be in really big problems, but that is not the case. Nor does this initiative, which the government adopted as a law, talk about what is to be done to those who refuse to accept a job. It doesn't matter. This concerns those who have been looking for a job, would be prepared to take up a job and would like to receive training, but they have not been able to get there, for their own good. They have done everything they can, applied for countless trainings, but those trainings are not there at the employment office. They would like a job, have applied for jobs, and when they do not get a job, in appreciation of this activity, the government cuts their unemployment benefits. This is wrong, this is an unjust and cruel law, because it offends those who have done everything in their power to find a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u151	Mr President! It was said that the situation was very serious. There is still a lot of unemployment, but jobs are opening up around Finland, especially in Northern and Eastern Finland. We also have training available, and these resources are now being increased to the TE Offices. It would be very important that this information should now be increased. There has also been feedback from the unemployed from our region that, although we know that services are available, jobs are available, they do not have enough information on what sectors they can train in, what type of training they could go to. We need to invest in this information. I would have asked about this. How are we going to add this? I would also like to draw attention to the opposition that apparently not everyone on the left is opposed to this active model, because the father of the idea of this active model is, after all, the former left-wing party secretary Ralf Sund. He has specifically presented this active model in this working group because the situation in Finland is so serious and we need to take measures to encourage people to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u152	Mr President! In my opinion, it would be quite straightforward for the representatives of the government parties to stand behind the law that they themselves have drawn up, rather than using such totally inferior arguments, in relation to a person who is not here to defend himself. Mr Lindström, you said in your previous speech that the root of the problem is a situation in which people do everything they can but still fail to get a job or get into education. That is what Minister Lindström said earlier, and that is what it is. This is the reason why unemployed people all over Finland feel that this model is so unfair, because it also cuts the security of unemployed job seekers and unemployment benefits that do everything they can. None of the corrections that the government has now tabled will remedy this fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u153	Mr President! Listening to this discussion and the comments of the government parties on this, it seems to have been forgotten that all these measures are aimed at people, ordinary people, who are losing money, who are losing the conditions for living. This talk of government parties is incomprehensible in their arrogance. There are real people out there who lose 32.40 euros a month. It's a lot of money for people who live on basic security. This has already cost this group EUR 11 million over the last three months, and it will do exactly the same over the next three months, because the measures you are now adding resources to the services may then have an impact on the next three months, but certainly not on the next three months. Minister Lindström, please respond to this large group of people who have made this request to withdraw, that you are prepared to consider and cancel the operation of this active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u155	Madam President! Minister Lindström, you said that it should be enough for a person to do his best. I agree with that, but the best thing for each of us is very different. For someone, for example, it may be the completion of a doctor’s dissertation, for someone else it may be the handing out of a toothbrush, and even once a week a shower. According to the Ministry of Employment and Employment's own estimates, 30% of the unemployed are actually incapacitated. In addition, 20% of the unemployed would primarily need social and health care services before employment services. So I ask you: in what way can this great crowd, more than 100,000 people, the unemployed, show their desire to make some improvements to their lives, for they will never be able to take a single course, education or employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u156	Minister Mattila, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u158	Madam President! A few comments: Not only has there been an attempt to activate people, but it has, fortunately, also happened that different actors have been activated. In this context, I would like to thank the MTK for having started their own job placement activity, precisely because there is a great deal of work in rural areas that could meet the criteria for this active model. We have recorded vacancies for 110 years, and never have there been so many vacancies as this year at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u164	Mr President! The great message of this citizens' initiative must be that these dwindling and injustices associated with this proposal must definitely be rectified. But I was thinking, let's move our eyes from our toes to the future a little bit. This change in working life, which is going on, requires that we have good unemployment security, that we have good skills, that we combine the development of social security, that we carry out an overall reform that will help us to get through work from one job to another. And researchedly good, comprehensive unemployment benefit helps people to take risks of moving from one job to another. This thinking of cutting unemployment benefit is simply out of date. We need to reform it so that unemployment security supports people's transition from one job to another and makes the labour market more flexible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u165	Secretary Lindström, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u166	Mr President! That is what I want to react immediately because I agree with Mr Ihalainen on most of what you said. You said that good unemployment benefit was needed and that it encouraged.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u169	Mr President! Minister Lindström, you don't seem to find that stone in that bun. I feel like you're going around it like a cat's hot oatmeal. The only one who here wholeheartedly defends this is Mr Vartiainen, who said that if the operation strikes, then it is nothing, the income support will help. So the message from the government parties is: we'll cut your security even if you're active, and if you don't have enough money to live, go to the social welfare office.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u175	Madam President! Here the opposition says that this is the law of surgery, this is a bad cutter. If this were the law of surgery, as you claim, then the news would be that about half of the unemployed have been able to avoid these cuts because they have been able to implement the terms of activity of this activity model. The possibility of this is improved by the fact that the government is increasing resources for the te-offices, by the fact that the government is enabling self-learning without the discretion of the Employment Office, and by the fact that the government is expanding the range of trainings that are included in this. Then it must be said, although this may be a little incorrect, that not all those people who have been targeted by this cutter have done their utmost to get within the scope of these measures, because we have incentive traps, i.e. entry traps and red tape traps, and of course they need to be tackled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u176	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, you said in the context of this so-called ‘active model’ referral: ‘All over Finland, all over Finland, there is also the possibility of finding gigs. There is an opportunity to be included in activation activities throughout Finland.” Now, this first review has shown that the level of activity of the unemployed is about the same as before the active model. When you have said that there is an opportunity to find gigs all over Finland, if this happens everywhere, there will certainly be a possibility in your own hometown of Helsinki, but still, for the most part, the unemployed in Helsinki have also been cut unemployment benefit because of your cutter. Mr Zyskowicz, is it that most of the unemployed in Helsinki do not want work or active measures and are lazy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u177	Madam Speaker! If I have said as Mrs Lindtman has quoted, that is true: it is possible to get into these active activities throughout Finland. Of course, it is not true that everywhere in Finland everyone always has the opportunity to get there. I'm sure we've made that clear. With the additions I have mentioned above, the government will contribute to improving this situation. But, Mr Lindtman, if you claim that in Helsinki anyone who has been affected by the reduction in this active model has been furiously seeking any job job and any training to find, that is not the right argument. For example, the person who signed this citizens' initiative has publicly said that because he is over-indebted, he should not accept less than two and a half tons of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u178	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz is now building straws here. No one has pointed at individual unemployed people. We have argued in terms of how it can be statistically demonstrated what has happened since the entry into force of this active model legislation. This is a cutter because it cuts every other unemployed person and also in places such as Helsinki, where there are also job vacancies, which shows that this law does not correct the problem of matching. It can therefore be said that the law has failed. It cuts the lowest unemployment allowance and labour market support from each other and increases the need for income support, which in turn exacerbates the unemployment trap and makes it more difficult to accept work. All these measures, which you are listing here, are future measures, measures designed to facilitate the employment of disadvantaged people and so on. They're not valid. These are the kind of measures you are just talking about. I think that is a very cruel, arrogant and careless talk about the position of such people,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u179	First of all, good evening, and from the Royal House of Sweden to all of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u180	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz said in yesterday's debate that he was wrong about cutting down on subjective day care rights, and now that we have seen what happened during the first three months — just as the opposition told us in advance — this cut about half the basic income, from the low-income unemployed, many of whom have been very active — you would now have the opportunity to be honest and admit that you were wrong and that this model should be overturned as this citizens' initiative suggests. In his first speech, Mr Talja correctly explained what our model is: if you refuse work, if you refuse education, you will be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u183	Mr President! I am told that my line is cold or hard, but it, like this active model thinking, is based on a solid behavioural study of how people actually behave. Without the need for a theatrical attack on anyone, financial incentives affect the unemployment rate, i.e. how attractive it is to be unemployed by means of income transfers compared to working. There is a huge amount of research on this, and that is why I find this talk, that in some way a person has forgotten about it, completely deranged. In my opinion, this is precisely because we are trying to understand a little about how people are doing and then bring about behavioural changes that will bring down unemployment, down this highest unemployment in northern Europe. Perhaps in a few years' time, we will be able to see how this law works.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u184	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen, as you well know, this particular model has not been tested anywhere and there is no extensive behavioural research on this particular model. Of course we have research that financial incentives affect people's willingness to work. Indeed, our entire pay system is based on the idea that work, working time and money are exchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u187	Madam President! Yes, this active model does not help to find employment, but punishes those who are hard to work. I myself come from the north, where this has worked excellently, because it is not even enough to cut half the unemployment benefit for the unemployed, but to find places where 80% of unemployment benefit has been cut. This new government method of cutting unemployment benefit works excellently. It's not these people's fault. It's evil from nothing. This is the reality there. We know the cure for the Coalition Party for this. Vartiainen says: ‘If employment opportunities are low in the home,whoever is obliged to move to another country. “ Now, Minister Lindström, what is your medicine, for example, for these people, who have been cut 80 % of unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u188	Mr President! These resources have been increased for this active model. There have been new activation opportunities and today's proposal to prepare for a change that a person over the age of 25 can train over a six-month period. I also welcome the government's proposal to increase the tax deduction for work dwellings to EUR 450 briskly every month for taxable earned income. I already referred to that active model that's in New Town. So over 100,000 people have been approached in business. More than 10,000 of them have been contacted, and 3,000 are about to be employed. Let's go get 500 new ones. This is the kind of active model that Finland needs everywhere, and there are real opportunities for people to find employment and rise in Finland. This is the kind of active model that we really need in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u189	Madam President! I find it incomprehensible how some government representatives say that you should go to income support and the income support hatch. This same discussion took place in the case of secondary subjects. On the contrary, we would have to make a policy of getting people out of those income traps and poverty and not just driving them into new income traps and poverty. But, Ministers Lindström and Mattila, now that much has been said about future measures, you made a presentation earlier on this active model 2, which had this weekly obligation to report, that we should look for jobs, to send out these applications. We were already upset about this as a result of this active model 1 and, fortunately, there has been nothing about it, and there was nothing in the frame either. Have we forgotten this active model 2, or are you still preparing and planning to bring it to Parliament? I would now like a direct and clear answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u190	Madam President! Mr Lindström said earlier that the active model was not perfect. I can tell you that you tried to make a prime, but you got a wolf — a wolf that eats the bread of an unemployed person. One must be surprised that when those small repairs were made on the active model, why did voluntary work not come along? We have many people who are able to work part-time or younger, who may not be suitable for work or courses year after year, but they would be suitable for volunteer work, would be able to do something else and get social work and communication with others. You said that there are 110,000 job vacancies in Finland — I do not remember the exact figure — but when that unemployed person goes looking for them, when he may not have the right education for them, he will not. It is difficult if we talk about how many jobs there are when they do not necessarily face what education is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u191	Madam President! On the other day, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy organised a seminar at Mariankatu 9. There officials and other people had visited Australia’s unemployment measures. There was the fact that 20 visits per month were required from the unemployed. The reason was that the faster people get to work, the greater the opportunity for them to avoid various long-term unemployment problems. Similar results are found in the United States. In Finland, the labour market is likely to continue to be the most rigid in the world, even though the government is preparing programmes. In 47 years, I think I've hired between 5,000 and 10,000 people to work. I must say that those young people, parents, schoolchildren who have been active and have not followed the advice of the opposition have also been given work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u192	Mr President! When spokesperson Lehti spoke in favor of man’s activeness, his thinking should be signed. Of course, you must be active, you must apply for employment and you must have access to education. We all agree on this, Mr Lehti. But the question is that what if you have applied 20 times for a job and have not been able to do so: is there a right to make cuts since you have not been able to find a job? This is not your model, as has been said here, in the world of people who do everything in their power to look for jobs, apply for training but do not receive it for an independent reason, cut unemployment benefit. This is a tough model that hurts people. A person who is in distress, without work, with a low income and who is as active as possible will receive this 5% cutter as a reward. I am surprised that you do not understand the opinion and anxiety of 150,000 citizens who have signed the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u193	Mr President! It is very important that there should also be vouchers here, now that there is such a shout, because Mrs Rinne made a quite false claim. He claimed that purchasing power would have disappeared: already 11 million would be disappearing. Well, purchasing power will not disappear with this active model, because when the primary benefit falls, that is, if this unemployment benefit falls, then secondary support, such as income support and housing allowance, will be replaced. There is no information on this interaction, which means that it is not worth talking about half-truths. But if we are to be able to work more quickly, both young and older, we will have to pay attention in the future to this active model and to the whole employment process in order to obtain more of this information. Then there will also be a real problem if you constantly apply for a job and do not get a job. Then it is a question of having fewer job opportunities, of having to go to conversion training or something else, of going into training of the type that improves their own employment opportunities. It is also possible to move to the north, for example, where jobs may be open there in their own sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u194	Mr President! My guess is that not many people who have applied for 20 jobs in person will be unemployed since then. Of course, if this happens, we will have to look at an individual case, see if you have applied for the right type of work, whether the conditions for success in that task and so on. But in this situation, perhaps only those who, if I may say so, are left unemployed will not be able to achieve the level of productivity that the employer should employ. I would then like to say that these incentives are becoming a problem, and I would also like to ask whether this tax practice is such that it is worth moving towards negative income tax, so that the person could be paid the salary that his working capacity is, and then the rest is replaced by social resources. The main problem for Finnish society is the rigidity of the labour market. This was measured by the OECD — to Arhinmäki as a recreation — and most recently, Finland was ranked in 150 countries. Well, that's about the amount. This is how it has been there in the last three countries all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u195	Mr President! I find it rather appalling that expressions are used here such as ‘artificial insult’, ‘opposition-making insults’. I wonder if the speaker here now means that these 130,000 people
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u198	Madam President! This debate has a bit of an attitude that the unemployed only works well or correctly when they are looking for a job or at least 20 applications. I've been out of work for six months myself. I wasn't looking for a hard job. In fact, I did not, as I recall, apply for a single job, because within a hundred kilometres of my home there was not a single job available that matches my education, and yet that six months was not wasted. I was able to make peace with the idea of my own company, which I founded, with which I employed other people, and I claim that in the long term I too have been of much greater benefit to society in this way than being forced into the props forest to do some sort of quota work or something else. That is why I hope that this debate will remember that there is a huge variety of people among the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u199	Mr President! The correct analysis is that we now need to consider precisely who these employment measures are targeted at in the active model. When 98 Lipponen’s government paid for it if it did not go into employment, 40 percent of the income support was taken out of the income support, however, this government has gone into action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u200	Mr President! There are two key differences here. Representative Talja spoke of a situation in which a person refuses to take an activation measure and is then punished. Now we are talking about a situation in which a person does not get into activation measures despite his desire, and this model will then be punished, and that is unfair from the point of view of that person’s legal security. I also wonder about the enthusiasm of the representatives of the government parties to refer to income support. As we heard, this cutter, which was not supposed to be a cutter, has cut 11 million out of the basic security of the unemployed. Thus, the basic security of about half of the unemployed receiving basic social security from Kela has been cut, and your answer is that all of these can apply for income support to fix this. That means that you have made the incentive and bureaucracy trap worse for nearly 100,000 Finnish unemployed job seekers. Is that what you are trying to achieve, and do you really regard this model as a successful example of labour policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u201	There are requests for answers, which I am now going to give you eight more, and the list will be started by Mr Lehti. — All of you who are here now will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u202	Mr President! People often have the impression that all vacancies are open to the public. It probably depends on the economic situation, but I bet that more than half of the jobs are not published because the employer may be receiving too many applications, the small town has a problem with saying no and so on. The fact that there is such a narrow thought that if there are no job vacancies, nothing is being done is, in my opinion, a rather strange starting point. We discussed this problem once earlier with the Minister. Yes, people have to offer themselves, and in that situation, the employer is usually able to assess when and for which job there may be work available for him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u203	Mr President! After listening to this debate, it has at least become clear that there is no point in coming to the government for pastry tips.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u207	Mr President! I'm gonna get involved in a few things. This is where Heli Järvinen talked about how she had set up her own company, and the government has now done exactly that. Now we have introduced a legal reform that will enable us to experiment with business. At the same time, unemployment benefit is intended to be made available to the labour market as an employee. We've been talking about a wallet. The same Ralf Sund, the former Party Secretary of the Left Alliance, who invented this model, has estimated that 70% of the unemployed will increase their income, because these days will be reduced. It has been said that there is no such model anywhere else. There are models like this all over Northern Europe. Denmark is almost the same. There this obligation to work is only much greater, 148 hours per four months. Finally, to this speech by Mrs Lauri Ihalainen, the general truth is that the more conditions and obligations there are, the higher the unemployment benefit we may have.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u208	Mr President! For long-term unemployed, effective activation requires resources to accompany the unemployed person, which means tailor-made assistance, support and guidance. But now these additional resources granted by the government do not make this possible, because at the moment even periodic interviews with the government have not been able to take place there at the TE Offices. There's a lot of them to do, too. The government has also made two serious mistakes preventing the long-term unemployed from being employed. The two major mistakes are the dismantling of the skills programme for young adults and the weakening of the employment potential of the third sector. Intermediate labour markets would be those jobs where even a person who does not have access to an open labour market could do meaningful and sensible work for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u209	Mr President! There was even reference to behaviorism here earlier. I can't find any research on an active model. As far as the Danish model is concerned, I can tell you that there are not entirely wrong ideas that unemployment benefit is up to 90% of salary and that unemployment benefit is paid for two years. It is a couple of hundred days more than what is paid in Finland at its longest. In addition, people in Kela say that it seems that people who were active in the past are still active, i.e. young people and women are on average more active than older people and men. The Head of the Centre of Excellence for Social Security Benefits of Kela notes that there is no significant change in the activity of the unemployed. Well, now we have this privatisation here. Minister Lindström, when it comes to the active model and all these others, and when it comes to this privatisation, which I am sure the state will support if you are prepared to make a bill,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u210	Madam President! I have to wonder, though, about the speeches that come from that right side: To blame the unemployed, the already hit, the most vulnerable people with very low unemployment benefits. Representative Vartiainen sees that we have too high unemployment benefit in Finland and are apparently based on it. You are ready to drive the people in distress to the income support hatch, to squat them even further, people who do their best, try to find work, try to get into education, but you think they are lazy and need to be slacked. I can't believe this is happening. We have a citizens' initiative, which is in our hands, which in record time received 150,000 signatures, and your message to them is: go to the income support hatch, go to the bread queues, get your livelihoods there. I can't believe you're talking about this. I ask you, Mr Lindström: are you really driving this line of the coalition, or do you hear these people screaming in distress?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u211	Mr President! The government has increased the opportunities for unemployed people to be specifically covered by work, but also to study with unemployment benefit. This has been very important. Entrepreneurship is also possible in the future, and unemployment benefit may also have been used as a wage subsidy. It would also be important that earnings-related unemployment benefit could also be used to start an entrepreneurial activity. I hope that the social partners will finally agree to what the government has wanted. Then, with regard to those who are able to work and who are unable to work: it is really important that this work is now being started, how to help and serve them — precisely specific measures for these groups who have difficulty in finding employment. A large proportion of the unemployed are actually incapacitated. This was also said by Dr Raija Käättä in the Paltamo employment experiment, where she was involved in the work, and she is now involved in this project by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. When will the results of this be expected that decisions can be taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u212	I will take three more replies, followed by brief answers from the ministers, and then to the list of speakers, and these three will be Mr Kiuru, Mrs Krista, Mr Ojala-Niemelä and Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u213	Mr President! The great value issue of society is what is the great goal that Parliament has. In my opinion, all parties have thought that the last thing is that we are driving people into income support. And in that regard, the value issue is now quite strongly present here: do we feel that it is fair to introduce a mechanism for employment policy, as it were, in the government's own interests, in which even one in two may be at risk of receiving income support? This is certainly the big problem, and someone might say that it is a passive model. I think it is such a big question that if a person does his best, he can get reward for it, not a stick. I think it is necessary to discuss this type of major value issue again in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u214	Madam President! This model is unfair and unreasonable and violates the equality of citizens. This is the same sabluu that has been placed throughout the country without identifying the regional differences in these areas. The number of services varies greatly from one locality to another. There are different opportunities for short-term work across Finland, i.e. the active model does not activate, but punishes these people for lack of work. That is the starting point. The model penalises those with the lowest employment opportunities and the lowest access to services. As Mr Hänninen said here, people are being pushed into a livelihood hatch which leads to increasing poverty among the unemployed. That's quite a punishment: 32 euros 40 cents will be taken away. This in turn raises the employment threshold. That you have the right ring, Minister Lindström, invented!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u215	Madam President! If you think about what the previous government did, it made it easier for you to find employment by, among other things, allowing someone receiving unemployment benefit to work without cutting what Mr Jarva raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u222	Thank you for the debat. Now both ministers, no more than three minutes. You can also talk about that place. Three minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u223	Madam President! Thank you for the debate. Although we disagreed, an important debate on an important subject. Once again, a little more of these basic things, how this model has now been developed and developed. So let us aim for an increase in the employment rate, that is the main objective there, but we also want to influence the activities of those benefiting from unemployment benefit, as Mr Vartiainen has, quite often, witnessed strongly here. This objective has never been hidden, but this change does not take place overnight or in a day. However, the Employment Package has already decided to increase the scope for action in the spending limits debate. There was talk here that this would increase bureaucracy in the employment and economic development offices. Of course there'll be more work, it's obvious. This is why more money has been allocated to both personal services and the organisation of measures to support employment. This is, of course, important and people need support. The opportunities for the unemployed to study are being developed and these new opportunities build up a model of activity, as has been suggested several times here. Congressman Lehto asked about this volunteer work. Of course, this has been considered, but its problem is very far from where we draw the line on what type of volunteering would be good enough for this. Is it volunteer work organised by that organization or all voluntary work? Would it then lead to an artificial activation, as it were, of some voluntary activity that would meet the criteria of the active model? This is the problem. That is why we are currently in the position that volunteering does not meet these criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u226	Next up, Minister Mattila, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u227	Madam President! First, the answer to Mr Jarva. You raised this project, which is a joint project between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which deals with these very issues of working ability. By the end of October, the target timetable will be the first results. This was a success with such a fast timetable to start this investigation, because this OTE project already existed for the part-time workers. It is to be expected that results will be achieved because such a study has not been carried out so extensively in the past and yet this situation has been here for years already in the previous government. Then the answer to the fact that, regardless of the citizens' initiative, even before and now after that, the Government will follow up this Parliament's statement, the effectiveness of the active model, the impact, and will take action if necessary. This job isn't gonna stop. The timetable here has also been asked as to what changes will be made. Of course, the point is that changes will be introduced as soon as possible, possibly before August. Consequently, they have been subject to corrective measures and that is not the end of this work. With regard to volunteering, I would like to add that there is a lack of legislation on voluntary work in Finland which exists in many other European countries and which specifically defines the relationship between unemployment and volunteering. This report will also be made at the Ministry. Then it is said here that this government will cut everything and everything from the unemployed or small daily allowances: there is little use of the truth here, that is what must be said. We have a basic income experiment, we have guaranteed pensions in the row, we have minimum daily allowances raised, we have Lex Lindström in force. Therefore, this is not entirely true. Representative Eero Lehti raised a negative income tax. This is a very welcome idea. It is precisely the future government, or the next government, that is, on the question of how we will have basic security or income security, and how social security will be reformed in the next period. In other words, work will continue within the framework of this Unemployment Protection Act to improve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u228	We will then move on to the list of speakers, and I would remind you that 7 minutes from this platform and 3 minutes from the site.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u229	Mr President! During the time I have been involved in politics, there have been more than two things of which people have been in contact. These have become hundreds and hundreds of emails and phone calls. These are the things people have come to talk about in markets and events, no matter where I have been in Finland. These two things are the cutting of holiday money and the so-called active model. The cutting of holiday money and the active model are combined by the fact that they affect hundreds of thousands of Finns and that they are considered exceptionally unfair. Although the majority of people are prepared to be flexible for the common good in a difficult economic situation, no one has been able to justify why it was the public sector employees who had to be cut more than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u236	Mr President! We're talking about an active model again. The last time we discussed this matter in this Chamber, I anticipated a number of problems. However, there is one thing I did not foresee, namely that the active model obliges people at the beginning of January to follow instructions that will be given precisely only in April. From the beginning of January, therefore, the unemployed have had to follow the instructions they had no chance of knowing with certainty until April, at the risk of sanctions. Well, you don't have to be a sociologist to predict that in such situations, there will be congestion for TE Offices, and that is why one of the government's corrective measures to the active model is now increasing the resources of the authorities. The active model itself was already problematic in terms of legal security, but its implementation has made it even more problematic. I cannot imagine any politician in this Chamber thinking that it is fair to demand something from people at the risk of sanctions without telling them what is required of them. This should be quite clear from the right to the left that this cannot be done, and it should also be clear that if this is the case, if nothing else is done, then it will effectively undermine people's confidence in the system: and the officials of the TE Offices who are trying to respond to the thousands of contacts when people are calling, how should they now do so, so that they can get through this with their dry feet, that, above all, the people who are threatened with a very small income. There has been no intervention in this Chamber today, and I would really like to hear someone say that it is OK that there is no problem here, that there is no need to defend or even make it understandable, because I do not think there is such a thing. What else do we know about the active model, what was still known at last reading when I last spoke about this toilet? Well, at least now it seems that the active model did not add to the desired activity. We do not yet have accurate information on this, and it may be that the situation will change substantially now that people have finally been told what is expected at all. But according to current data, in the light of current statistics, it seems that the behaviour of the unemployed in relation to the labour market has not changed radically since the active model came into force. Individual cases in one direction or another do not change this whole. If this was the purpose of the active model, so far it does not seem to achieve its objective. A little different air already existed when the active model was regulated, whether this is the purpose of the active model at all. I also heard speeches that would not have been the case, but rather the savings of the state budget from the cutter that this will generate. In this respect, it was quite well done that half of the unemployed, in many areas, now receive lower unemployment benefits than in March. The financial savings from this to the state's treasury are different, and, as is already the case with the government's proposal, what is saved in unemployment benefit is largely lost in the event of income support, and this transition to income support also results in a further deterioration in both financial incentives and, in particular, in the red tape traps of social security in relation to the receipt of shrapnel work. Of course, this was anticipated. The system was supposed to produce employment services in defence speeches for those who are unable to fulfil the active model obligation from the open labour market. This has not happened. After all, employment services do not increase at all by deciding to threaten the unemployed. Labour services will increase by funding them and organising them, and the increase in employment services by funding them and organising them will not require an active model, but will require that money be fixed and someone make them change, and this is entirely possible without an active model. It is even the case that, in our unemployment benefit system, without an active model, the unemployed even have an obligation to participate in these employment services if they are organised. If, at least on some scale, the employment authority has a sensible employment service to show to the unemployed, then it is his duty, at the risk of a severe threat, to accept it without an active model. In this respect, the active model was not expected to bring about a change and has not brought about a change. However, this has been the case in the sense that now that the government is trying to patch up the problems more and more in the active model day by day, it is looking for a solution to the fact that more and more different employment services or activities classified as such would qualify for the active model. - I'm done, Speaker, in a minute. I fear that there is going to be a phenomenon here that none of us, other than Tarja Filatov, could foresee here, namely that our employment services are increasingly targeting the obligation of an active model rather than being organised on the basis that as many unemployed people as possible would receive a reasonable service for employment. This is already a good start in this direction. I am almost as concerned about this as I am about the collapse of the legitimacy of the system due to legal security problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u237	Madam President! The active model squats in Finnish unemployed workers and, of course, even unequally unemployed people depending on where they live in Finland. The committee already drew attention to this in its report. If the unemployed person is looking for work and does not get any job in spite of the companies and does not get a course — all the courses that promote employment can be full and you cannot get them — then he can eat the unemployed one who then puts the gloves on the table so that he can pick up the money from the livelihood door. Once you have tried, it will still be punished even though you have tried and did not get a job. This is where Minister Lindström said that volunteering is not good enough as an active measure because we do not know which borders are being drawn, but we do draw limits on many other issues. After all, the government is now little in line with the fact that people under the age of 30 can be hired for a fixed-term contract of employment. That's 30 years — another limit. There are fewer than 20 people in the workplace who can be made easier to lay off — a limit has been set. You can put these on if you want. Then there has also been talk here today about this, that if you find work in your locality, you have to move after work, leave your family there at your place of residence and then go and see for yourself if you can find a place to live first and then what work you can find there. I saw a South American documentary on TV a long time ago, where the men who came to town after work met early in the morning in the parking lot of the shopping mall and then waited for the employers to drive into it by pickup trucks and then choose who would be able to work that day. The luckier ones got on stage and got into work for one day, and the next morning the same activity. I thought that there would never be such an activity in Finland, but now that you have looked at this government, I even think that one day something like this will come to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u249	Madam President! This discussion around the active model has been very intense and intense at times. I think we should work together on how we can achieve the best possible result together. On the other hand, it is good to remember that since the beginning of the Government's term of office, the centre-driven government has directed Finland to strong work and activity, encouraging it and thus, in line with our election promise, has put Finland in good shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u253	Madam President! This citizens' initiative is very important and important, and I would also like to join in thanking its authors, the active people who have participated in it, who have indeed brought this major flaw back to Parliament for debate, and that is a good thing. I believe that this citizens' initiative and the fact that it was born quickly, spontaneously and collected over 100,000 names at a very fast pace reflects precisely the fact that citizens feel that this so-called active model is truly anti-justice and offensive. It has certainly become a kind of symbol of this unequal and unfair government policy. At least that is how I felt when I was involved in the demonstration that was held in that market against Lindström’s operating model. Not only does this go against the general sense of justice and the sense of justice, but this model in itself is an actual invention, not in a positive but in a negative sense. No one but the Finnish Government would probably come up with a model that seriously punishes people for actively seeking work. It is an incomprehensible insight from the Finnish Government, and this model does not exist anywhere else, as has been said here. This is a good opportunity for the government to reverse and reverse its model, but this debate has not given much hope to it, as enthusiastically it seemed that the representatives of the government parties and ministers were in favour of this. This active model was one part of a government, as it were, where it has been more or less constantly driving down the security of the labour market. As has already been said in the course of Question Time, this started at the beginning of the term of government when there was a threat of being forced into law, then there were cuts in unemployment security, then this cut in holiday money came from hard-working municipal workers and public workers — nurses, teachers, cleaners, all of them — then this active model became, and now, unfortunately, the most recent part-time job of young people has been linked to this chain, and then this so-called kick law, which makes it easier for people to be laid off. It's a pretty cruel line, a pretty cold line, not a time of power. And as I said in that debat, that's what it's all about, that's what the coalition is waving the baton and the blues and the center are singing in the background choir. I understand the desire of the coalition to maintain this active model, the so-called stone in a bun. The coalition seems very keen to do so, but the fact that I see two blue ministers here defending this coalition line and then I see the centre nodding next to me is quite extraordinary. We are in a situation where we cut people's basic security, and the centre of Finland nods in it and is doing so. How did it go before the elections: Prime Minister Sipilä said that basic security is not being touched and there will be no cuts. Like I said, this is a stone in a bun. I have been somewhat concerned at certain points about the tone of this debate when it seems to be laughing a little at such concerns of the opposition and others. A few speeches today, both in Question Time and in this debate, have come to such an arrogant spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u256	Madam President! I am saddened by the fact that we Finns are always compared to the Danish system. I am annoyed by the fact that we have about the same number of residents, but in Denmark there are almost twenty times the number of employment officials compared to us, that is, around 2,400 in Finland at the moment and 40,000 in Denmark. On the basis of these figures, I would not go on to make very many comparisons. This actually involves the big problem we have in Finland: we still do not face the unemployed. Since the beginning of last year, that is, from the beginning of 17, periodic interviews took effect every three months. They have been praised up to the Prime Minister, they have been said to have worked well, and that is why I wanted to check last week what the situation is with these periodic interviews. Firstly, only 60% of unemployed people have been admitted to periodic interviews, but even more worryingly, there have been fewer face-to-face encounters at the TE Office last year than in 16. So when the periodic interviews came into force from the beginning of 17, the number of encounters has decreased compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u261	Mr President! We're talking about an active model, and that's a good thing. It needs to be further developed and now developed, and there will certainly be further improvements. But it is important that we start with a model that will help to ensure that in Finland, as in other countries, especially in northern Europe, work must always be more profitable than non-employment and especially being at home. It sounds unfortunate, and I understand the hard criticism of this model. Of course, when unemployment meets and there are certainly many other kinds of feeling that how to cope in this future and who will help me in this matter and whether my own resources are sufficient, it certainly seems that this is helping now. But on the other hand, I too have received a lot of feedback from young people about the fact that, for example, it has not been worth accepting work before. The system does not encourage it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u264	Madam President! I have to say to the previous speaker, Mr Jarva, that these improvements, which have now been made, are crumbs in relation to these cuts, so that they do not have much praise. But on this active model: I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the initiative. This civil society has shown its strength again when we have the initiative before us today. This model does not help to find employment, but punishes those who are hard to work. This model is unfair and unreasonable and violates the equality of citizens. If, in three months, there are no 18 hours of work, EUR 240 entrepreneurial income or participation in services, if these activity criteria are not met, the result will be a cut of almost 5% on unemployment benefit. 32 euro 40 cents — it sounds like small money, but it is a large sum for many. It's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u267	Madam President! I must say that if the citizens' initiative is signed by almost 150,000 people, it is quite a big initiative. I would like to thank the active people who have signed this citizens' initiative for bringing this important initiative to the House. We fought long battles in December, even during the hours of the night, because in December the government used to discuss the issue of inequality between the opposition, it was placed in a debate after Question Time, when people could not follow it so easily. Similarly, this active model was discussed and discussed during the night hours. It was as if they wanted to hide these unfortunate conversations when people were aware and knew that this was also going to be unfair to people. In December, when this active model was discussed and decided, we tried desperately and furiously to raise these issues and, above all, the opinion of the people and the ideas of the people. Unfortunately, that did not change the government's mind, but this citizens' initiative is a clear example of the strongness of people's minds. It is somewhat crazy to think that activity is only measured by the fact that you have been given a job, that you do not gain appreciation for being genuinely active and seeking a job, that you send out a number of applications and that you are disappointed not even to be invited to an interview, that you may not even get the message that the application has come through and that you should be commended for this. As far as the top is concerned, there will be almost a 5% cutter, more than EUR 30 for very small income, which will be directly removed from our companies as well and from the rest due to the weakening of purchasing power. We know these problems of enforcement, health care and so on. This is likely to increase this development of inequalities. It is cruel that such a model was trampled through knowing that there are runaway defects and that this will treat people unequally, but the government has such a magic word that is followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u274	Mr President! At the very beginning, however, a little praise must first be given to the government and thanks to the ministers. [EeroHeinäluoto] Because, this time, when this matter was discussed, the ministers were present in the Council of Ministers. I remember that in December when they wanted to run this through in the dark hours of Friday night, the ministers had other things to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u279	Mr President! The essence of this initiative, which has been sent to us by 150,000 citizens, is to abolish this model, which cuts the livelihood of people who, despite their own activity, have not been given a job and who have not had any training. This is the core. There is a great deal to be said about the labour shortage in New Town and the fact that we have, for example, regions of Kainuu, where there are job vacancies for certain tasks or where we have the need for seasonal workers in the restaurant, accommodation, but that does not eliminate the fact that, if there is a situation where people have been active, sought dozens, even hundreds of jobs but have not been given jobs, without his own fault, this law, which has been passed by the government, leads to a reduction in unemployment security. This is the core. No other speech that has taken place in this Chamber today will reverse this fact. No information on job vacancies, no information that the government has decided to increase the number of employment officials. It does not contradict the fact that despite being active and wanting a job and being ready for training, but it has not been possible to give it to you, there is a cut in income. All these problems were said when this was discussed in the autumn. Among other things, Mrs Zyskowicz was quite right to quote here, who shrewdly announced last December that we will find these jobs, that when this law comes, everyone will find at least this sort of temporary work. Well, it hasn't been found. Now we are making small shakes, but not even those little shakes will remove the fact that this law is going to be maintained. So if you don’t get what the government does, work or education, then the livelihood will be cut, and this does not fit people’s sense of justice. This is the reason why we have this bill from the citizens today. I have met with a building manager who told me that he has sent hundreds of job applications, over 500 job applications, some of which led to contacting him. Why? It was about his age, he was over fifty, and the cold fact is that when you are over fifty, fifty-five, then you are no longer interested in offering a job. Even in such a case, this law adopted here leads to a cut in income. This doesn't feel right to people, and it doesn't feel right to me either. This law is important in such a way that this reflects the change in thinking that this Sipilä Government has brought to Finland. All things are transferred to the individual’s responsibility: if you are unemployed, it is ultimately your own fault, and the government’s encouragement leaves the stick and cuts. Well, of course this is not the case for all population groups. It reminds me of the recent business management options developer who was asked how these high salaries of directors of stock exchanges and other companies are not enough to motivate whether these options are still needed. This answer was that the CEO's salary is only compensation for coming to the workplace, that it will then be necessary to have options for some result. There are therefore groups that we want to reward, for example, with the tax reductions we have been talking about here, and then with better interests, but then there is this common people, the unemployed, for whom reward means stick, cuts if you do not do so, or cuts even if you do this but do not get a job. When Mr Vartiainen said here that we will then come back to this in a few years' time and then we will be corrected if there is any need for correction, I would nevertheless like to remind Mr Vartiainen that there will be parliamentary elections in the middle. So in all cases next spring, the people will take a stand towards Finland and assess what models they want to develop in the future and what they want to correct, and this will of course pass by what the parliamentarians of this Parliament are saying here today. When Minister Lindström talked about this last December, he said that ‘on the stone block’,however,that this law is a hard law,and he acknowledged by his parable that this has not been successful. He then implied that there is something bun, something else good that exists and which is why this stone must be accepted, swallowed with that bun. Well, it has not yet been clear what excellent legislative proposals are coming from there, but I assume there is something, as far as the new bunnies are concerned, that then comes this most important minister of the government, this Minister Sund, who prevents the government from submitting these legislative proposals and comes up with something to discipline the people in their place. This situation still fits a 500 - year - old life guide, and that is the judge’s instruction from Olaus Petr. By the way, these instructions for Olaus Petr’s judge are still available on the first page of the Finnish law book, and they do reflect the deep popular wisdom that would occasionally be the result of the memory of the future: ‘What is the right and the right, even the seivoioy law? “ The people feel that this model of Lindström is neither right nor fair, and that is why this bill is important and serious. The government model is kind of like this rookie position: this does not improve by repairing, it is better to do a whole new one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u281	Mr President! As I was thinking a little bit out loud, it's true. In other words, as Mr Heinäluoma finished his speech, this is not going to get better by patching things up, but we really need to do a new one and cancel this active model, Lindström's operating model. But, President-in-Office, I really wanted to say a few words about this general line, about this unacceptable line of government, when it seemed that the representative of the centre, Mr Jarva, was very pleased that there were certain improvements here. Of course we too are delighted that there will be some minor improvements to the social security side, but that does not remove the overall view that this government, Central government of Sipilä, cutting 700 million people's social benefits per year. When it returns 50 million, it celebrates it as a big victory, but all these people who receive a small pension, these unemployed people, students, families with many children, experience it in their pockets. And perhaps it is a little funny that here today, when we are talking about another operation — direct cuts to unemployment benefit through this active model — so at the same time it is said that here the centre is defending the weakest. Yes, I say that we have not missed the Alchio from time to time, in this hall the spirit that was once in the center. This is a purely market-liberal policy, whether it is about inequality or making working life even more unsafe than it is today, and it is precisely the big picture Mr Heinäluoma also mentioned at the beginning of his speech. It's a big picture of the government. Fortunately, we will have a debate on values at the latest in connection with the parliamentary elections, and I hope that the direction of Finland could change then, because now this active model is actually a good symbol — or a bad symbol — but a symbol, President, for people to feel very unfair and cruel about today's going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u282	Mr President! A few clarifications and corrections to previous incorrect claims: First of all, this Alkio, our ideology of an ancestor and an ancestor: the Emkio said that the issue of the poor is the most important to us, but in addition to social policy, we must strengthen people's capacity to help themselves, and that is precisely what this is. We must not pass people, as this system has done for decades, and whether it is said that after the last recession we in Finland have not been able to sufficiently strengthen this capacity for self-help. A few other clarifications: For example, in relation to these tax reductions, reference is always made to who they have been targeted. These have been particularly targeted at people with low and middle incomes. It has been confirmed through this that people have more money available, and then after this kiky agreement too, for example, those who earn less than EUR 2500 in the public sector and who have worked for less than 15 years have been compensated for the negatives of the kiky agreement and holiday allowance cuts. It's on the plus side, it's also good to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u287	Mr President! It is of paramount importance that the 15 000 signatures of the citizens' initiative, in order to reverse what is perceived to be a completely unfair and now also a very unfair active model, have brought the active model back to the House. This makes it possible to correct this mistake made last December. Unfortunately, on the basis of the speeches made today by the representatives of the government parties, it does not seem very likely, but hope that reason will still prevail in committee. Apart from the employees of the Employment and Economic Development Offices, the active model has activated representatives of the government parties at least today to develop the most bizarre explanations that even the lowest unemployed people receiving unemployment benefit have seen the light of day as an active model punishing the failure of job search. For example, Members of Parliament who are becoming increasingly small in number, both in the Chamber and elsewhere, have tried to turn black into white and have said that there should be sanctions for refusing to work. Well, unfortunately, this is not at the heart of the active citizen's initiative under discussion, but it is that the active model can also penalise those unemployed who try to do their business well in every way. Of course, similar arguments have also been heard about the direction of the centre today. It is understandable, of course, that it is not in any way easy to defend a coalition-led government policy, and so the most extraordinary arguments must obviously be invented. Mr President! Mr Vartiainen said that the active model was well prepared at the time, but on the other hand, Minister Lindström has already given a very different certificate here in Parliament last year before the decisive vote. As a statement by the Minister for Labour in office, this is a rather strong text, and it is clear that these problems, which have now proved to be true, were known in advance but yet the active model was forced through, apparently at the request of the coalition. Mr President! Unfortunately, even during the first quarter of this past quarter, it has become apparent that almost half of the people receiving the lowest unemployment benefit have been subjected to a drastic cut-off of the active model. Regional differences are also very large, and the opposition tried to warn us about this in advance. Mr Vartiainen said that conclusions can only be drawn years later, but it does not bring much comfort to a person who is struggling with unemployment and money problems. I therefore hope that the government will finally take some sense into its hands and implement the call made in this citizens' initiative for a rapid withdrawal of the human test contained in the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u288	Mr President! I would have responded to a few comments from Mr Jarva, but unfortunately he had to leave. This is the question of these income traps, to which he referred, and which are quite real: is it possible today to accept, for example, low-paid work when moving from social security to work? This should be changed, and work should always be encouraging. He just forgot to say that this is not a problem that this government's active model solves at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u291	Madam President! As a direct follow-up to Mr Räsänen's speech: I hope that when the people vote, they will know what they are doing and who they should vote for, because we have now seen very radically during this term of government what the values are about what kind of policy is and what is being implemented. But to this comment by Mr Jarva, I too would have said that when I mentioned this, the government will follow this in all its decision-making, knowing that there are problems with these laws. Now that three months were followed and this human experiment was carried out at the expense of human well - being, it was found that the cutters bit 50 percent of those seeking work. These people are already suffering from this follow-up. Now we're going to follow up on the next three months or six months or until the end of the reign, aren't we? We know that when we get to the government and influence this issue, we will no longer follow. We're gonna take this out. But we hope and are now working hard to ensure that this model is now withdrawn with this citizens' initiative and that the government understands and that the government is also empathetic. It is now lacking with these decisions. Mr Jarva spoke about the fact that it should be worthwhile to accept the work, and we all fully agree on it. Every hour you work for a salary should improve your life situation, bring more money and opportunities to buy products or use services, or go to health care and so forth, and these incentive traps should be dismantled. But this model does not in any way touch it. This in no way brings about a change, and it is therefore extraordinary that, time and again, Mr Jarva here repeats the same thing. Unfortunately, he is no longer here, but I am afraid that he would still repeat this if he were here. But simply: People need support and work and a reward for being active, for having a view of the future, for trying to find work and accept even a small job, and not for being so active and unable to get that job, the cutters bite.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u292	Mr President! On this journey we have wondered a little about the activities of the government parties, especially the centre, when it has been very clear that there are two centres: there is a gym centre and then there is a weekend reference centre. It has happened very often here. As I recall, in connection with this active model, among other things, it happened that when it was praised and enforced by the government parties, it was not many days after the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre made a public statement that there must then be a correction and perhaps a return to the matter. This is exactly the same situation. When we were talking about Alkio: on the weekends, Mr Kaikonen from the Central Parliamentary Group has very often called for the right of the poor, the fight against inequality, the anti-poverty package, the cancellation of index increases, and then, how can it be when the next week a button is pressed, that finger will go to the side of the government proposal and do exactly the opposite, that is to say, cut the indexes? Or at one time there was evidence of inequality here in the mid-term debate that everything was so good, in this Chamber you told us everything was so good, and came the weekend and came from downtown talking references that something needed to be done to combat inequality. And then, when the liquidator came to his report, it was very necessary to make the speeches, but in practice, the money for it was as much as zero euros. So here is the striking contradiction between what is said in the Chamber and what is done. I don't think this is what the Embryos would be happy about. And, of course, this government policy has in fact been such that there has been enough money for, for example, forest reductions for 1,400 of the most wealthy forest owners or millions of heirs who have then received tax reductions as gifts. But I also think that today's subject, the active model, Lindström's cutting model, is indeed a symbol of all of this in the sense that people feel very strongly about it unfairly and they know the subject very well. And then many unemployed people really know this in their wallets, and that is why it is appropriate, President, that we continue to have this debate here in Parliament. And we very much hope that we will be able to improve on this. Indeed, as far as I am concerned, I see that there are not very many representatives of the government parties here — now we have one here, so perhaps we will hear more excuses for this very bad government law and then perhaps we could also hear arguments as to why we would not take the stone out of the bun now and cancel this bad active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u293	Madam President! When the opposition here all evening has proved that this is the law on surgery and the law on unemployment security, I say the same thing that I said in the early part of the debate that if this law were intended to cut unemployment security and this was the law on the law on the cutter of unemployment security,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u300	Mr President! How do you know that the government is in trouble and the assembly is having great difficulty defending government policy? It is known that Mr Zyskowicz will appear and the others will have disappeared.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u303	Madam President! This new government method of cutting unemployment benefit has worked well in some localities. There are major regional differences here. On average, when it has cut unemployment benefits from more than half of the unemployed, Posio has up to 80 percent, and it is not a matter of slothful people or of not trying to get a job. It is a matter of having such a one-sided business structure, there is one big employer, Pentik, but we are not all going to be pottery, no matter how hard we try. This is an unfair model, and it penalises those with the weakest employment opportunities. There was also one young person in contact with me who said that he is now going to have all the gunpowder, time and input to hunt for this 18 hours or entrepreneurial income or these services instead of looking for work in his own field, that he has completely broken down this spectrum in this respect, that he will not be able to invest in this search for work in his own field, when all he has to do is fulfil the obligation to engage in all the time and effort. But then I would like to make one more serious point. It is this ambiguities of active measures. If active measures and work are now falling between the period considered, unemployment benefit will be cut even if in the next period it is over-required. This is not right either. There should be some way to look at this rhythm now and again. Then I'll tell you about the encounter problems. There's been a lot of talk about them today. Yes, we have to increase the number of vocational labour market training in the labour-intensive sectors. Now, the very fact that we have a shortage of labour is reflected in the failure of education. This year there were 5,000 educational resources, in the previous period 20,000. There's quite a difference and a contradiction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u304	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz: you already knew in the government when you wrote this law and when it was approved here that this would increase the cost of income support by EUR 10 million. So there is enough money to be given there to provide income support and, as it were, to encourage income support. You have said here that we cannot know here in the opposition that all these job seekers have been active and seeking and have not been able to obtain and succeed. Of course we cannot know, but the problem is that this law of yours affects everyone. Also those active who seek, and they are caught in the cuttings, regardless of whether they have done or have not done. It's the same as if one drives speeding and gets a ticket, then the whole village will pay those fines for it. You also said here that this would somehow be a new possibility for the unemployed, that he could get more income and so on. It's not like that with this model. When a person goes for 18 hours, a few days, even for a job-seeking course or an entrepreneurial course organised by the Employment Office, he does not receive any more income for himself. All he can do is make sure that cutter doesn't bite. This is actually a snuggling of people if, every three months, people have to take these courses and take an entrepreneurial course and say that there is no entrepreneurship and that there are no conditions for this entrepreneurship here in the region, but they do it again and again so that they do not get caught up in the cuttings of these active activities. And this is the law of surgery and the law of passport sickness. There's no way out of it. People know in their everyday lives how these government decisions affect their lives. The 150,000 people who have signed this citizens' initiative know that this activation model must be withdrawn. It does not help that the members of the governing parties here say ten good and nine even better and so away from what measures have been taken if people's lives in reality are not more abundant in that everyday life, but, on the contrary, less and less poverty and income support and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u305	Mr President! I was thinking, at this point in the evening, of starting to say a few words of thanks again for the fact that I think it has been wonderful that civil society has once again shown it its power. This citizens' initiative is here and it is good that there have been discussions here. I would also like to acknowledge Mr Zyskowicz for my part that he is now the only representative of the government party who is still here. And, as I said, the game is fair when words also correspond to deeds, which is, of course, a good thing. But really, President, I would like to say that I believe that the citizens' initiative as an institution or part of the system is good and important. It gives citizens a voice, and it also creates obligations for us here to discuss what we think is necessary, and hopefully it will also be possible to change the situation when considering it. So I hope, Mr President — despite the fact that I have sensed from these governmental parties that this model, which does not work and which is a cutter and a cruel one, is still very much defended — that the committee will seriously go through this and come to the conclusion that this active model, the Lindström cutting model, should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u306	Madam President! In the end of the debate, I would of course like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Heinäluoma and Mrs Viita, for their kind words. I'm going back to my basic argument. If this were primarily, as you suggest, to cut the unemployment benefit for the unemployed by around 5%, then the news would indeed be that about half of the unemployed and probably even more of the earnings-related unemployed have succeeded in preventing and avoiding this cut in line with the cut-off model, which you claim to be the cut-off model, by meeting the conditions of activity laid down by this law. Mr Heinäluoma, who may have the next floor, or Mr Viitanen, please tell us what is not true of my logic. If you declare that this is a model of surgery, that this is intended to cut unemployment benefit by 5%, then is it not news then that half of the unemployed have managed to avoid this surgery if this is such a law of surgery as you have been claiming here all night? So this is not a law on cutting, but a law aimed at mobilising the unemployed to engage in different activities, such job-related work, entrepreneurship, labour policy participation, which will then help to facilitate their opportunities and improve their chances of working more fully. I note that this active model and its results require further analysis, and I believe that this will be the case in the labour market. For example, how many of those who have been hit by this 5% reduction have failed to become active because they feel that this incentive trap, either as an income trap or as a bureaucratic trap, is the result? How many of these unemployed people, who are affected by this decline, are in fact outside the labour market, i.e. need a completely different kind of help and support? This latter issue is now being clarified by the government, and I believe that the level of our debate will perhaps improve somewhat as we get more accurate figures and information on the number of unemployed people who have not been able to meet this requirement for activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u307	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz does ask a very demanding question when he asks me to say what this law and this so-called active model have meant. That is very difficult to say when I have not been in the government preparing this reform or doing it. On the basis of what has been said so far, it may well be that the best person to know this is Minister Sund, if he could be there, because he seemed to be the most important influence on why this law has been adopted when he listened to the speeches made by the representatives of the centre used here earlier. But this is not the essence of this law when it comes to surgery. We can agree if Mr Zyskowicz can sleep better tonight, that this is not a surgical model and that this law was not intended to operate. That's a deal we can make. However, even after that, it remains that, however it is, every other unemployed person receiving unemployment benefit from Kela has had his income cut, as we are now told. Will it then help the unemployed if, like Mr Zyskowicz, I at the Hakaniemi market on the first Sunday of May tell you that the honourable unemployed, the purpose of this law was by no means to cut, nor was it in any way the idea that this would cut, this was just to activate? And then, when I am told that a person has been active and has been seeking work but has not been given a job, I say, oh, well, how about it now, then, that 5% of unemployment benefit was taken away? People won't understand this. I cannot manage, Mr Zyskowicz, with this explanation that I say that the intention was not to operate, because, of course, the citizen says that it has now happened that 5% less unemployment benefit will come. So, Mr Zyskowicz, the essence of this case is not what is intended. It could be important in your trial. It can be taken into account as a mitigating factor in the judgment, but it does not eliminate the fact that this is a reprehensible act for the person who lost 5% of his unemployment benefit. He will not be satisfied, not to thank you or me, so I will return to the fact that it is enough that man has been active, that he himself has done his part, and then should not be put to work with this kind of cutter. Mr Zyskowicz, when you are a well-known lawyer and very often logical in your reasoning,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u310	Mr President! I have to say, that was such a nice finish right there, Mr. Heinäluoma,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-19-ps-38.u313	Any more activity?
