ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u1	The third item in the order of business is the election of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland. I note that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the following representatives as members and alternates of the delegation:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u2	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Let's open a conversation. Mr Vähämäki will present this initiative as the first signatory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u3	Honorable Speaker! Thank you for this honor. This is a draft law amending the law on credit institutions, but it is a question of a working account model, which is included in our alternative budget, which we presented last autumn. The aim is, therefore, to reduce the administrative burden, above all with regard to the names of activities. In this case, the personal identity code could be used to open a bank account in a credit institution, i.e. a work account, and the bank would manage everything as a service: to account for VAT to the State, to pay social security and pension insurance contributions. On the other hand, the person would not have any right to deduct. Up to about 40,000 people would be able to earn a year, leaving this to the person, after these deductions and VAT accounts, then the balance of the bank account. In short, the bank would take care of everything as a service. In fact, one Finnish bank has already started doing this type of service. So now we're gonna have to bring... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u8	Madam President! This representative The legislative initiative taken by Vähämäki is very interesting and I hope that it will be dealt with in a very serious way in committee. And I think that, although it has come from the ranks of the opposition party — apparently part of an opposition project — it also fits in with the objectives of the Government Programme to reduce red tape and to increase the employment rate and facilitate entrepreneurship. President! After all, the reality is that the labour market has changed and is constantly changing in the direction that the difference and interface between employees and entrepreneurs is blurring and that in this world of the platform economy there is likely to be very flexible movement between employees and entrepreneurship, and there may be small business activity in this sector of paid employment. In that sense, this is a very interesting project, and this is a very interesting bill and hopefully we will go through it carefully. Mr President! Different accounts like this are launched every now and then. Some of the policies, at least in the right, refer to this so-called basic account as an alternative to basic income. That account thing could be worth finding out, too. And then one thing I hope the government will clarify during this parliamentary term is whether the Swedish model of investing and saving people could be encouraged a little bit in such a stock savings account, i.e. that there could be different investment products in one account and there could vary between different investment instruments and then, when money is taken out, then it would become a tax. It would encourage such healthy saving and self-maintenance and improvement of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u9	Mr President! Employment and employment are a source of debate, and that is a good thing, because it is perhaps the most important thing we have to deal with as a single issue. With regard to this subject, I have always criticised the fact that the right-wing government's means of improving employment are often mostly away from the workers, but essentially without facilitating the red tape of employment. And the left-wing opposition is trying to increase bureaucracy and distribute money that has not yet been made. I have therefore challenged the ways in which employment could be proposed, which would not be done, but would allow everyone to win. I understand that this bill is just the way it is, and I hope it will be successful in its further examination. Work is changing, as has been mentioned, and such means are necessary to respond to that change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u10	Mr President! The economy and employment in Finland have picked up slightly, and this positive trend must continue. People are also being encouraged to set up businesses and thus to employ themselves and others. Representative Vähämäki has made a bill for a job account model, which is a great new opportunity, especially for people who hesitate to become an entrepreneur, because in business, bureaucracy and paperwork are very employment-intensive and challenging. This model would take care of the obligations of small entrepreneurs for the tax authorities, as well as social and pension contributions in a flexible way and would allow time for self-employment. I support Mrs Vähämäki's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u11	Mr President! I remember when, as a young man myself, in 1992, I started entrepreneurship by setting up a business name and went door - to - door shopping, and I was rather surprised at the amount of paperwork it produced. Of course, a few schools had to find out, and it was clear to me when a lot of people were asking around, but if there had been such an opportunity then, many others, many of my friends, would have gone into business. And that entrepreneurship is the way to life and another world with unlimited opportunities. We, too, have a lot of successful entrepreneurs in this House who have been very successful in their lives, and they have all started with such little action in their time. I, personally, would like the government to listen to these speeches and take this initiative to committee. If this is a de-bureaucratic exercise, this is if what makes sense for the growth of the Finnish economy, because we know that almost all jobs are created in jobs with fewer than five people. With this red tape, we can also obtain tangible additional tax revenue, because this also prevents the informal economy insofar as people who want to make a little more money are able to make it through entrepreneurship. This will also exempt the employee from such things as accounting, simplifying his or her business and increasing his or her activity. This is the kind of security we need for entrepreneurs. There is bankruptcy security here, and there is also unemployment security, social security and health security, all represented in this same package, and in that sense I support the initiative taken by Mrs Vähämäki and that it should be carefully examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u12	Madam President! Finland rises by entrepreneurship, and the entrepreneur's wheels must be kept rolling. This representative, Mr Ville The Vahamäki bill is a very good one, and this is aimed at dismantling red tape and facilitating access to small businesses. The Finns are entrepreneurial-friendly, entrepreneurial-minded and small-business-minded parties, and we attach great importance to the fact that it is possible for more and more people who want to do so. This work account model, which is now at issue, is exempt from accounting, simplifies entrepreneurship and also increases activity, and these are very important issues and values. It was great to hear Mr Kurvise speak about how you took a stand on this and you saw this as a good model, and in your speech you also pointed out that you hope that this issue will be dealt with very well in committee. It's a great thing to listen. This is part of our shadow budget but a very good part of it. Yesterday, we had a very broad debate here about the active model, and no one raised the issue of the situation of the entrepreneur and the position of the entrepreneur. This responsibility for the active model is transferred not only to the unemployed but also to the entrepreneur, which means that the entrepreneur is the person who takes this unemployed person into work and is also obliged to act as a mentor and mentor, which means that there are many different challenges in the life of the entrepreneur. It should not be forgotten that, in fact, the active model is not going to work if someone does not provide the job and gives the job. But it's a pretty short time to be there for 18 hours, and you need someone to walk by your side. In other words, a very good bill from Mr Ville Vähämäki, and we really hope that we will see the importance of this initiative and deal with it with that seriousness, crossing the party boundaries. The topic is very good and encourages Finland to rise — those small entrepreneurs who are currently thinking about something new.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u13	Madam President! Yes, it is always a pleasure to have activity to streamline standards. This is a strategic policy area for the government, a new policy in which it is very important to streamline standards, rationalise complaints and facilitate authorisation procedures. Indeed, if you go to visit www.standardspurku.fi, you will see that a lot has been accomplished. This is the spirit in this good initiative by Mrs Vähämäki. We know that Osuusbanki has already been active in this. I really think that in these times we should start by reducing the threshold for trying by all means, so that at different stages of the company it can be treated in a slightly different way. In this context, it is perhaps timely that the EU Commission has now made a proposal to the Member States to raise the VAT threshold to up to EUR 80000. In Finland it is 10,000, and we are the co-pilot in this EU world. After all, Estonia just picked it up to 40,000. Today, Mrs Jarva and I made a proposal — but not here — that Finland too, when the tax road map is being drawn up, should raise this issue and that it is precisely this initial step forward, lowering the threshold for employment and entrepreneurship that should be taken from this point of view. This is not the first time that a representative Vahamäki brings these good digital ideas into motion, based on digitalisation, and I see this in the same line. That a good government is already moving in this direction, and it is good that the Finns of Finland come along.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u14	Madam President! Mr Kurvinen took a case that separates Finland and Sweden from the capital markets. This Swedish share account as a household instrument on the capital market is one where, without tax on transfers of funds and other significant costs, share allocations within the same pot can be exchanged — as management companies can currently do. However, management companies, which are capital investments favoured by households, take an average of about a quarter or a third of the annual income. In this equity saving account it is a fraction of this, and when the interest rate is calculated, this is also a very significant advantage for households in terms of capital formation, even if there is a significant need for capital for business or other activities, a risk capital that can be targeted at starting a business, for example, and thus perhaps a small reduction in the burden on the public sector. But this issue is probably in preparation, so that is all the more so this time on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u15	Madam President! The government recently increased the standard jungle for small businesses, the government complicates the activities of small entrepreneurs: the LEI code was made. In other words, the government's actions have now been accompanied by this new LEI — it already has two logos. And those payments for this LEI are so unreasonable for small entrepreneurs that small businesses give up investment activities. It would be a very good thing if the government began to take up these proposals from the People's Republic of Finland, specifically about facilitating business and eliminating red tape. We have come up with a number of legislative initiatives on these matters. Mr Lehti and Mr Ala-Nissiläk, you would now come to the Finnish people's line to remove red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u16	Madam President! This limit on the turnover of the person liable for VAT is something that we must now go through carefully. The Centre's ranks have paid very close attention to this problem and the desired side of the small business is also being held in this way. All I can do is to thank these representatives who sit around me, Mrs Jarva and Mr Ala-Nissila, for a very good opening debate on whether the current very low VAT-free turnover limit could be raised so that, in the initial phase, there would be more opportunities for entrepreneurship and a little momentum for the top of the line. Of course, when you look at the turnover limit of the person liable for VAT, you have to think that there will then be no obstacles to competition, that there will be no big steps, that if you draw to 40, 50, or 60,000 at some point that limit of activity of the person liable for VAT, then there will be a big leap into VAT. One option to make it easier for small entrepreneurs with value added tax would be to go as if it were moving or moving, so that in the early stages it would not be subject to VAT and then gradually the obligation would become stricter. But, President, I cannot fail to praise this debate. I would like to thank Mrs Vähämäki very much for having made such an excellent initiative. And could you think that once the new Parliaments have started, at last and at last, a little as late as it is, we could have the kind of Finland 100 spirit here in the house so that we can really think about these things with a group, whether they are work accounts or stock savings accounts or the like, regardless of what our party banner or our government or opposition banner is?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u17	Mr President! In this debate I see that it is as if these are here for the first time in the Parliamentary debate. Here representatives, including Mr Ala-Nissilä, have just been praised and praised for this bill, but now I am afraid that not everyone has read our alternative budget. These were presented by the Finns as alternatives already in the autumn in the entrepreneurship, employment and education package, and there we also had these tax elements in the SME sector, and we received praise for the ministerial box for these elements. Now, of course, I am a little concerned by the speeches made by these representatives of the government as to whether or not they have been read — let us thank them, but let us not take them seriously. Like representatives of the Finns Party Juvonen and Tavio there pointed out this entrepreneurship, and I too have been contacted by some entrepreneurs, and they fear, on the basis of this active model, that they will be flooded with applications. It is probably not intended that in the SME sector, which we employ most, there will then be hundreds or thousands of applications for each job application. It is probably not the intention that the time for entrepreneurs then goes to the fact that they contribute to the government's active model. Now I hope, when the centre and the assembly came up with encouragement and praise, and we really do have a representative. Vähämäki has brought a lot of initiatives in this information technology and the platform economy to take this very seriously now. This is certainly not the first time that this has been on the table — this was indeed in our alternative budget. Take a look at this so that you don't just have to say that it's a great idea and it's nice to talk, but then you don't remember that we've been bringing this up a long time ago. Seriously take these seriously – they are considered and tried to find solutions for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u18	Madam President! When you reach 36 years of entrepreneurship this month, I am very pleased that the climate of entrepreneurship in the Finnish Empire is from the beginning of the 1980s, you could say, beset with a truly appropriate and positive climate that currently prevails, and Mr Vähämäki's legislative initiative in this case is one of the ways in which, of course, it could be improved. We have a lot to do with the social security of an entrepreneur, the integration of entrepreneurship and work, and the integration of entrepreneurship and unemployment and so on, so that it is equal for all. In that sense, I still believe that the position of an entrepreneur in this Finnish society is in the position of being a child. The population of our entrepreneurs in terms of population is still not the same as in the Netherlands, for example, where there are almost twice as many companies, micro-enterprises, small one-man companies mostly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u19	Mr President! There was a lot of reference to my name and a lot of talk about entrepreneurship. For years, I have also received a lot of messages from an entrepreneurial background and from a lot of young people and start-ups that it is precisely this tax that is not encouraging at the moment to start a business, and this bureaucracy that has been bothering me for a long time. In Finland, in particular, we have loved this administration and created bureaucracy, and now it has finally begun to be dismantled: Hundreds of if not thousands of lower standards have been dismantled, major changes have been made through the entrepreneurship package and entrepreneurship is facilitated. Action has already been taken in a number of sectors. You should visit the www.norminpurku.fi website to see what has already been officially approved, and there are a lot of presentations in the ministries that are moving forward with regard to the standard bite. So a lot has been done and will be done. In my own parliamentary group, I am running a working group on the dismantling of business, and in that way the matter is very close. Then on this taxation: That is where Mr Suutari said very well that we need to get more start-ups for entrepreneurship in Finland and that people, either by side or very small, start doing business in Finland. It is already very much encouraged on the part of students and young people, but now, above all, when it comes to this employment and self-employment, this must also be encouraged on the part of the state. It is true that Finland is well behind the VAT threshold here. EUR 10000, the only one that is very low in us, the limit in the other EU countries is between 30000 and 100000 at the moment, and the Commission has really approached the Member States now, that we need to facilitate small businesses and this threshold, and we hope that as part of this road map for tax reform, this will be included in the study.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u20	Mr President! I asked for a reply a little earlier, but that's all right. Let's take a little longer than that. Firstly, the dismantling of red tape in the early stages of business is, of course, very welcome. I was a little surprised by the fact that there was twice an active model raised and one considered it a good thing for the entrepreneur and the other considered it a bad thing. That it would be nice to hear what that basic Finnish position is about. As such, if it is said that, when the active model is now to be introduced, then this debureaucratisation would contribute to the creation of businesses, I would point out that, when companies are set up, the people who start up businesses must in principle have a loan, but the unemployed people who start up businesses have very often lost their credit records, which means that there is no loan at all. In any case, the fact that the active model is being put here on the business side and saying that we have to earn about 250 euros in the three months from the business to avoid these sanctions that it will become... Well, I have a small company, and I can tell you that in the first three months we didn't make that kind of money, even though we did big productions on TV for YLE. It's because these things go a little slower. The money comes a little slower, and first we start with the debt capital and then we make and pay off the debt capital and get the company running. But, in itself, supporting start-ups, small businesses and micro-enterprises is a good thing. Personally, I also believe that the VAT threshold should be raised, because if it is not raised, it is one thing that makes it really impossible for a small entrepreneur to hire the next person and get its business to produce bread at that family table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u21	This debate will soon have to be limited because of the large committee meeting, but let us take a few more speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u22	Thank you, Mr President. And first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Vähämäki for this excellent legislative initiative, which is indeed aimed at facilitating the creation of new businesses through digitalisation. After all, they are both absolutely central to the Government Programme, and I hope that the government parties will be able to promote this bill. Yes, we Finns have many good presentations, this is one example of them. We have a lot of good proposals in terms of the economy and employment, and even though public opinion has tried to create the impression that we are only one movement, that is certainly not true. I think that this initiative is a good indication of that. Representative Tolppanen just asked for the position of the Finns on the active model. Our position has been, and will continue to be, very clear: we do not accept the present form of active model in which people are sometimes placed in a very difficult situation under duress. On this bill. Representative The sea pointed out that this proposal was already included in our alternative budget in the autumn, but it was then silenced. Now, however, it has been greatly praised here. In particular, Mr Kurvinen hoped that the idea could be taken forward in the spirit of parliamentaryism, and I very much hope that the Prime Minister's Party will promote this initiative in the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u23	Madam President! The city centre—congregated government has failed to dismantle standards for companies. The speeches are great, but the actions are small. Many bureaucratic gaps do not slow down the activities of larger companies, they are able to cope with them, but the situation of small businesses, especially self-employed people, is still disproportionate in Finland. I recently had a contact with one of the entrepreneurs who was involved in small-scale EU trade, and he told me that he had fallen ill, was on sick leave and was therefore late in submitting the VAT return. It had become a EUR 100 default fee. EUR 100 default fee for small-scale EU trade. Anyone who understands small businesses will see that this is precisely the kind of bureaucracy and additional charges that the government has created and which are simply not needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-09-ps-4.u24	Thank you, Speaker! Briefly, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who took part in the debate for their positive positions on this initiative.
