ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. Following a presentation by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, the referral debate will continue with group speeches of up to 7 minutes. After the group speeches and the debate, the debate will continue in a fast-paced order of group speeches. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the basis of day-to-day arrangements between 4 and 18. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The government has submitted a draft budget for next year, which I am more than happy to present. The situation is currently excellent in the economy. We could show you the budget by cleaning out billions and millions of dollars. But it can also be presented as a story of the choices we have made, of the value choices we have made, so that Finland will be a good place to live and live today and in the future. The defenders of Finnish well-being are those who take care of the economy. There will only be plenty of prosperity for tomorrow if the economy is on a sustainable footing. That is why we have made a responsible budget. The first choice is responsibility. We have not made an election budget, there has been no extra allocation. We are following the good and proven economic and employment policy of the government. We want people in Finland to feel that they can do, try and succeed in this country. But you can also fail, because the Finnish welfare model is one that helps if you fail or are weak, you get help if you need it, you get opportunities. We have made a budget that supports employment and equality and thus reduces inequalities in society. I believe that the greatest success of this parliamentary term has been that many Finns have been able to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u13	I'm sure it is. The Minister's speech exceeded the time allocated to it by 19 seconds by 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u14	Mr President! ‘Non-concentrated working roots,but sweet fruit. “ Lifting this beloved Finland out of the swamp has sometimes been a bad job. It has had to be taken from those who already have little. I have had many attacks on my heart, especially when in my time I have gone into politics specifically to hold its weakest and quietest neighbor. However, those 'fruits of work' of the proverb I quoted at the beginning are the end of the flood, which is why you can stand upright now. The rise in Finland from the recession of three to four years ago and from the disciplining of unemployment is exceptional on a European and certainly world scale. No matter how it goes, it’s hard enough that the government has achieved almost all its main goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u17	Mr President! According to the UN happiness report published this year, Finland is the happiest country in the world. In three years, Finland drew itself from the sixth position to the top position. The results of the happy comparison are based on the Finns' own estimates of personal well-being. The increase in Finnish happiness is not surprising when you look at developments in recent years. We have almost 120,000 people working more than when the government starts. Thus, by the population of the city of Lahti, Finns have found relief in everyday life and faith in building the future of their own family. Incentivising tax policies have ensured that the taxation of any employee or entrepreneur has not increased during this parliamentary term. In particular, taxation of people with low and middle incomes has been reduced, work and hard work must always be rewarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u28	Mr President! The budget of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo can be described in one word: without a view. What is missing can be described in one word: the future. The economic policy of this government is inherited from cuts in low incomes, education, science and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u31	Mr President! It was autumn 2008. My wife and I had decided to move to Espoo. My father, who served as a priest, had married us in the summer. We were returning by train from a housing show when I received the crushing news: My father had had a heart attack. He died in the hospital a few weeks later. I was 22 years old at the time, and I realized that life was limited. Things have to be done now, or nothing will ever happen. I wanted to do a job with a purpose. So I went into politics. Mr President! Last Saturday it was ten years since the American Investment Bank Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. This was followed by the international recession and the debt crisis in Europe that started in Greece. In 2010, I was organising a demonstration against the Greek support package on the steps of the Parliament House. I was talking, I was puffing, and I was puffing, just like the demos do. Talking is easy, because it costs nothing. Year after year, I resisted until the time came to take responsibility. Responsibilities are reflected in this budget, many of which come directly from the recent Blue Future programmes. Work, economy and security are the essence of the blue line, without compromising humanity. In recent years, the economy has been adapted because we wanted to save the welfare society. The objective has now been achieved, and now we can move on. The best example of better times is Lex Lindström, a one-time pension subsidy for older long-term unemployed. The pension subsidy is now being implemented for the second time during this term of government. Yle told of a trucker from Mikkeli who had been unemployed for over seven years, Jorma Pettinen, who is now happy to apply for this pension subsidy. Blue two-red zero. Income taxation will decrease by a total of EUR 130 million, and pensioners will also be taken into account. The Finnish citizen can keep a significantly larger share of the money he has earned himself, with emphasis on the low and middle incomes. During the Government's term, income tax has been reduced by more than EUR 1.4 billion. The Blue Tax Rebellion is a reality here and now. Mr President! The Tolku Conservatives are defending the Fatherland builders. The work capacity programme will be implemented, as Mr Lindström has suggested, and the biggest individual contributions will be made specifically for the promotion of employment. In addition, the unemployment security of family members of entrepreneurs will improve. Blues also have the courage to defend private cars. According to the Government Programme, the car tax will be further reduced and the vehicle tax will be reduced by up to EUR 50 million in 2020. The next government should continue to reduce the cost of driving. Mr President! The veteran brothers will finally be put on the same line as the domestic service privileges of the veterans will rise to the same level as those of the war veterans. This change, which is needed and supported by all, will take place in November 2019. The issue of independence never gets old. Under the leadership of Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö, we will receive a further 100 man-years of work for the Finnish Defence Forces next year, and some 60 new police posts will be created in sparsely populated areas. Security is the most important thing for blue people. Security is a fundamental right of all citizens. Nearly EUR 4 million will be spent on one-off equipment and information system costs to prepare for the implementation of the Military Intelligence Act. The law on intelligence needs to be reformed as a matter of urgency. [EeroHeinäluoto] Mr President! In order to improve the situation of the most vulnerable citizens, we increase the minimum daily allowance to the level corresponding to labour market support. This means an increase of EUR 80 per month in the minimum daily allowance. In addition, a decision was taken on the Blue Initiative to remove the 55-day limit for sickness allowances from the lowest income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u36	Mr President! National interests require responsible financial management. The government cannot keep sharing things that are not there. If new debt is taken in the midst of a boom period of almost EUR 2 billion a year, what will happen when the downturn begins? The measures required by economic balance must be taken to guarantee the future of the Finnish people and their children, but they must be done fairly. The Finns are working for Finnish work, for the preservation of the welfare state and for the safety of Finns. Now that Parliament is starting the last budget reading of the Government term, it is time to look at whether the Finnish ship is on a massive course or rather adrift. At the beginning of the Government term, Finland’s state was not so great. Now we're living in better times. The world economy has been on the rise for a long time. The employment rate has risen during the parliamentary term, but much of this is to be commended for the good overall cyclical situation. Government boasting of its own excellence is a wink. No adequate measures have been taken. The profitability of work has not changed, the tax burden on the average income is high and small entrepreneurs are still being overwhelmed by red tape. You cannot require people to work with different active models if you simply do not have jobs available. Often, there are also incentive traps where receiving work would leave less money for a person than when unemployed. People do go to work if work is available and receiving work is financially rewarding. This is what we, the Finns of Peru, are presenting and demanding correction. The dumping of labour conditions must stop and the creation of a cheap foreign labour market must be stopped. True Finns want to maintain the availability of foreign labour to ensure that Finland continues to work honestly and fairly on Finnish working conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u44	Mr President! This government has been a government of lost opportunities. This is the last budget of the current regime, and once again we are faced with another lost budget, another wasted year, another missed opportunity. The government would have had the opportunity to accomplish a great deal: This government could have made Finnish civilization and research a superpower. It could have invested in the education of our country and in the competitiveness of the future. Instead, the government has waved its cutters from day-care centres to vocational schools and colleges, even though knowledge and participation are what we are doing in this world — that is, another missed opportunity. This government could have made Finland a more equal country: a country where the acquisition of children does not undermine women's career development. A country where men also stay home to care for their little children. Instead, the government missed the opportunity to reform family leave to be more equal. The government felt that equality must not cost anything — another missed opportunity. This government could have fought seriously against climate change, made an ambitious climate policy, set an example for others and at the same time reaped the benefits that pioneers enjoy. Instead, the government has been pushing for a line in the EU that would allow Member States to reduce their carbon sinks without consequences, which is the same as increasing emissions. The trend now seems to be that Finland’s total emissions would not decrease at all by 2030. Climate change is accelerating, so there is no waste of precious time — another missed opportunity. And this government could have reformed the structures of the Finnish economy by abandoning environmentally harmful and inefficient corporate subsidies. At the same time, the government cut the basic funding for universities, which is a cut on productivity and the future. In addition to these, this government continues to support fossil fuels three times as much as renewable — that is, lost opportunities after each other. Mr President! The most worrying thing is that the government imagines that Finland is now in good shape. The choices made in the budget well illustrate the values of the various parties. The ideology on which the government is based is very clear: cutting care, cutting well-being, cutting education, and Finland’s economy is at a peak. This economic development boosted by the global economy could have been used much better by the government — this government has been a government of lost opportunities, it has now been seen. Mr President! The most brutal, but not surprising, is that, as the election approaches, the government has started to speak the opposite of what it has done this season. So the government has begun to speak beautiful about the very things it itself has cut off, and this has become an ugly formula. It goes like this: When you are in power for more than three years, make a harmful and short-sighted policy and, in the run-up to the elections, speak the opposite — this is the ugly pattern of the government. For example, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä said on television a few weeks ago that he was ready to increase development funds to 0.7% of GDP, and he also said that he was ready to double the Finnish refugee population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u54	Mr President! Finland is full of economic wisdom, but despite this, it is a country where, contrary to all the basic economic doctrines, fiscal policies are drastically tightened during the recession and, in the booming period, massive tax reductions favouring high incomes are revived. Petteri Orpo likes to play as a tight chest guard. However, the reality of economic policy is different. While the government has weakened the livelihoods of pensioners, students and the unemployed, increased inequalities and drastically cut education and skills, it has also spent more than EUR 1.5 billion on tax cuts favouring high incomes. Those who need are taken, and those who already have are given more. In a recent review by the Ministry of Finance, the sustainability gap is estimated to be 3% of GDP. It is about as much as the same ministry estimated it to have been in spring 2015. This despite cutting, cutting and cutting the central government balance and reducing the sustainability gap. So how is this possible? The main reason is to reduce the tax rate by nearly 2 percentage points. If the tax rate had remained at the 2015 level, the sustainability gap would now be estimated to be more than one-half lower. In other words, the government has put its tax reduction effort ahead of promoting equality, strengthening the education system and closing the sustainability gap. An illustrative example of how tight this tax reduction ideology sits in the assembly is the dispute before the government’s budget debate over further reductions of 300 million to income tax. The coalition would clearly have wanted to give up these tax revenues too, but for the government partners this was already too much when the elections were approaching, when the voters should somehow be told that low incomes and education were not completely forgotten. The National Coalition Party was saved by the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which decided to reduce unemployment insurance contributions by 300 million. Thus, in the middle of the economic boom, Finland would rather spend this money on more recovery than on raising bulldozers for the rainy day. This is not justified by cyclical policy. Mr President! The balance of the economy depends crucially on the employment rate. The improvement in employment is very welcome news, but growth is expected to slow down as early as next year. It is vital that we have a government in Finland that is prepared to make the necessary investments for our future. The Left Alliance has just published a proposal for a sustainable tax reform. Controlling climate change and solving the environmental crisis is the most important task of our time, but it must be done in such a way that inequality is reduced at the same time. In Finland, environmental taxes have often been introduced or tightened in order to reduce income tax and to find replacement money to replace them. The same line has also marked the policy of this government: Income tax has been reduced in favour of high incomes and equal tax disadvantages and environmental taxes have been increased. At the same time, subsidies for polluting energy have even been increased, which is completely inconsistent from the climate point of view. We want to reduce tax subsidies that are harmful to the environment for hundreds of millions of dollars and to channel resources into investments in renewable energy and knowledge. The taxation of people with low and middle incomes can be reduced as the tax progress is tightened and capital income is also brought into the scope of the progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u57	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! We need a society where no one gets left out. RKP wants to build a successful Finland. The best way to guarantee this is through school and education. The parliamentary elections in April will be an educational election. We call for a more child-friendly policy, which means that we politicians must dare to raise issues of inequality and family welfare. The school must ensure a level playing field for all children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u58	Mr President! When preparing next year's budget, the government forgot about the elderly and the care of the elderly. This autumn we have again had to discover the sad situation of care for the elderly in our country. They're using "ghost nurses" to get around the hospice in old people's care. At the same time, home care staff are exhausted under too much work load. All in all, the elderly do not receive the care and care they need. Moreover, the elderly do not receive the services that belong to them. The government had the opportunity to improve the status of care for the elderly by budgeting more money for care for the elderly, increasing the number of care staff and improving services. The correction of the situation in the care of the elderly cannot wait for a social solution to be found at some point, but the time is indeed now. Mr President! There is, of course, a lot of good in next year's budget. The Government takes note of many of the issues raised by our parliamentary group. The most important of these was the crisis package presented to improve the situation in agriculture. Agriculture is in a real crisis and rapid measures are needed to alleviate the plight of farmers. The immediate crisis package of approximately EUR 30 million proposed by the government seems rather small given the overall seriousness of the situation. At its summer meeting at the end of August, the KD delegation presented a more significant immediate crisis package of EUR 100 million. In addition to immediate crisis measures, the long-term viability of agriculture must be improved. We have been talking for a long time about the need to improve the position of primary producers in the food chain. A greater proportion of the price paid by consumers will have to go to the primary producer in the future. It is good that the government has finally woken up to this problem and set up a liquidator to think about it. However, reflection and volatility are not enough; concrete measures are now needed to improve the position of producers. The second point we have raised relates to crop damage insurance. It cannot be that only primary producers carry the risk of crop damage and have to pay expensive premiums. The food industry and trade must be involved, for example through the fund, in financing crop damage compensation. Mr President! The KD delegation will find other good things in the government budget. Among other things, the increase in the guarantee pension and the reduction in taxation for low-income earners receive our support. However, small increases and tax reductions do not correct the government’s earlier cuts. The government does not correct the index freezes it has made in the past, which affect the livelihoods of disadvantaged people. During this period, the government has also vaccinated children and families with children. Family benefits have been frozen, child allowance has been abolished and group sizes of day-care centres and schools have been increased. This is not a responsible policy at a time when birth rates have fallen to alarmingly low levels and children are being postponed from year to year to a later stage of life. In the budget debate, the government had the opportunity to turn the family policy around. The government’s lunches were rather limited in order to ease the situation of families with children. Mr President! In connection with the budget debate, the Board of Directors decided to introduce an investment savings account. Chairman of our group Mr Östman took an initiative on this issue last autumn, and it was good that the government took it up. Ordinary retail investors will have a better way of saving, and it will also harmonise tax treatment with investment funds and investment insurance. Household savings should be encouraged in order to prepare for possible economic downturns also in private households. The Government's draft budget contains a number of very apparent contributions. The most glaring example is the EUR 40 million transport package. However, it is a good thing that additional funds are made available for maintaining road safety and winter maintenance, but the fact is that at the same time the government will reduce basic infrastructure management by a total of EUR 370 million. A well-started reduction in bus network repair debt stops like a wall, and the condition of the road continues to decline.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u61	The debate will continue, and I will give the floor to the Minister for Finance first and then to the Prime Minister for five minutes. — — — — Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u62	Mr President! Thank you to the groups for their good prepared speeches. Quickly, a few comments. Let's start with this correction debt issue: the government had 600 million extra funding to pay off the repair debt, and it will end now this year, but the government has spent and will spend a total of 4.8 billion on basic maintenance, the previous government will spend one billion less, that is, the total is one billion bigger, and the next government will definitely be responsible for the larger amount of the repair debt, because it will require a separate financing solution. Regarding the local government economy and services for the elderly: the KD made this point in its excellent speech. The concern about services for the elderly is right, but I would like to say that there is a particular hand-to-hand struggle in the municipalities about how the services for the elderly are managed. Local government finances are stronger than 20 years if you look at key figures. And a stronger local government economy, which has been promoted by good employment and economic policies, will enable municipalities to cope with that difficult issue. By the way, the government has not cut 300 million, as was said here somewhere. It is based on a calculation system that annually equalises the relationship between municipalities and the state according to existing legislative agreements. We have not made any cuts; this draft budget is decision-based neutral. In the RKP's speech, I would like to draw attention to the issue of the refugee quota: it has been overlooked that the government agreed, in the context of the budget debate, that if the European Union finds a solution that concentrates asylum search on common centres in the EU rather than seeking a direct asylum across borders, then the government will take this refugee quota, an increase in the number of quota refugees. I think this was a sensible decision. For the Left Alliance and others too: According to the Ministry of Finance's memorandum, the sustainability gap from 15 to 18 will be reduced by one and a half percentage points. This is a significant figure. The sustainability gap remains a major challenge, but fortunately you had the wrong information on this, which means that the situation is not so bad, but is going for the better, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u67	Now, Minister of Finance, there will be no extra time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u68	Mr President! The government went to fix Finland from a very difficult place. The ambitious economic policy objectives that we have now set are at the finish line. The first economic policy objective of the strategic government programme was the folding of debt: The debt-to-GDP ratio has already fallen. We have also reached the agreed 60% threshold in the EU. The low debt ratio provides a healthy buffer for building a future welfare society and preparing for possible future external shocks in the economy. Secondly, we decide that the level of taxation has met the ceiling. Finland’s tax rate has fallen according to the objective. In the budget, we are proposing tax reductions, despite strong opposition, for the low-income, middle-income and pensioners. [Helve Creator’s Interlude] Thirdly, one of the biggest concerns of Finns under the elections was the indebtedness of public finances. The government wanted to stop living in debt. As early as next year, the indebtedness of public finances will be reached in the framework of the accuracy of the calculation. In the state economy, we still have a lot to do, because the debt is taken up in accordance with the budget book by 1.4 billion, but the government's debt is also reduced in line with the plan. We have a responsibility to ensure that public finances are sound for future generations. Fourthly, in practice we have already achieved our ambitious employment target. And, best of all, employment has improved throughout the country. As the Minister of Finance said, the situation in many Finnish homes is quite different from the beginning of the government. The employment rate is the best in almost 30 years. Fifthly, I would like to say that we are also on the right track to bridge the sustainability gap. However, it must be said that the decline in the birth rate presents new challenges. Mr President! We will continue to do everything in our power to increase employment further. Too many people are still out of work. The next employment rate target should be set at at at least 75%. Now there are no skilled workers in many job vacancies. This is what we answer in the budget. For example, we will increase conversion and continuing training. The budget will improve employment opportunities for those who are long-term unemployed and those who are able to work part-time. This is done, for example, by increasing the use of pay subsidies in companies and also in organisations. We also invest in maintaining the ability to work. Productivity growth needs to accelerate and skills need to be further strengthened. Reforming society requires sufficient public and private investment in product development and research. As an export-driven country, this is a sine qua non for our survival in the world. The Government now set out to implement the ambitious goal of the Research and Innovation Council. It will increase the share of R & D funding in GDP to 4% by 2030. In fact, we significantly increased the funding powers of Business Finland and the Academy of Finland. Here, too, the long-standing downward trend has now been reversed. Mr President! Olli Kärkkäinen and Jussi Tervola reported in the spring on the impact of economic policy on income differentials and employment in 2015–2018. It can also be concluded that the government's employment policy has supported it. The income gap has not increased when people's employment is taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u71	Now we're going to the debat. At the beginning of this debate, however, I will give the floor for 1 minute to those who have just spoken in the group and also to Mr Väyrynen for 2 minutes after what has just been said. Indeed, during the next speech, I would ask that everyone else who wishes to reply should stay up and press the V button. — Let us move on to the debate, and that is where the first speaker, Mr Salmon, has just agreed to speak, and you have one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u72	Mr President! As the Prime Minister said earlier, surely the most important question is how to get this very positive development to continue in the coming parliamentary term and how to get too many unemployed people to work in the future. However, the legacy of this government, as we heard there, is excellent. One can say that this is a good place to start building a welfare society forward, and also to improve basic security. And when you look at this situation once and for all — the hard thing is that the government has achieved all its main objectives — I am so surprised at the statement by the Green Group that this is a government of lost opportunities. Perhaps this was a poorly thought-out statement if you really look at what has happened here in Finland. When we talk about promoting equality in working life, I would like to raise the issue of this family leave allowance that this government has introduced. In my opinion, this is the most important gender equality act of this millennium in working life, which means that employers of women workers can apply for two and a half thousand euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u73	Mr President! Government economic policy and employment policy work. The screens are now on display. Although it has been claimed that income differentials have increased, income differentials have not increased — perhaps because of the fact that tax reductions of 1.4 billion are mainly directed at low and middle incomes. Employment improves the economy of people who are employed and also the economy of the state, but I think that the values of the economy are even more important than those of the intellectual values and human capital that arise when the financial distress in the family subsidises. I believe that, through employment, that spiritual well-being will also increase in that family: perhaps less quarrel about money, perhaps less abuse and custody, and it will be reflected in the long future. And that is the valuable capital that this government is now leaving behind in this work. The employment of parents creates faith for young people in the future and that it is worth studying, and it is worth looking forward in the future. Even more valuable than economic values is this intellectual capital that is created here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u74	Mr Orpo, you claim that there is no divisional margin, but at the same time you are reducing the taxation of the good people, which will then be covered by debt. We are at the peak of the economic cycle and, despite this, the deficit is EUR 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u79	Mr President! Three years ago, when the government work was started, the opposition said that it was impossible to achieve these employment objectives, but that it had been achieved. Apparently, then, this is a misfire, in your opinion. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u80	Mr President! I would like to raise one more subject which is perhaps somewhat silent in Finland, namely how much the European Union actually costs. The European Union will pay Finland the membership fees, the billions. But how much does this EU bureaucracy actually cost Finland when it takes away official work and you know how much it complicates the system? The Finns have always believed that the EU should be a trade union and not a federal state. Why, then, is the government not struggling to keep the EU piling up money from Finland? The only thing that is always glowing is that the EU gave money, but it is our own money that the EU gives us here in Finland. So is the government going to make a move to ensure that this EU budget does not continue to grow now beyond Brexit? And at all, this EU issue is bigger than the economy, because it is rather unfortunate that the federal state is growing until it is finally no longer possible to decide on its own laws here in Finland. I hope that the government will someday
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u81	Mr President! The measures taken within the budget are value choices. I would remind the Minister of Finance that you chose to cut low incomes, you chose to cut education. Now, in a way, the minister hides behind such an optionlessness or such rhetoric. Every single year since 2015, we have had alternative budgets in which the same amount of money has provided a better policy. Perhaps it is your fault that you have not accepted our counsel. It is good that the good winds of the world market have reached Finland, and we are all happy about that. But we're just saying that the government could have done much better. You could have made these reforms, which would have been necessary: family leave reform, business support cuts. And it is not credible at all that the same people who have cut off the same things,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u82	Mr President! The financial review of the VM in autumn 2015 estimates the sustainability gap to be 3.5% and this autumn 3. However, regardless of which chapter of the VM is now correct, it is clear that if there had not been such a large reduction in the income tax, the sustainability gap would in any case have been reduced more. As far as the increase in inequality is concerned, of course, it is most honest of all to consider how decisions taken by the government have affected the development of people's income in different income categories. It must then be borne in mind that the government has also made other tax reductions, i.e. tax decisions other than these reductions in earned income tax, which have benefited especially the Finns with high incomes most of all. Similarly, the government has decided to maintain the freezes on the social security index, which weaken the livelihoods of non-working Finns and which mean that, unlike employees, the purchasing power of low-income unemployed and pensioners will develop next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u83	Värderade Talman! Det som man tuuturr kommer att komma ihåg den raus regeringen för är de kraftiga nedskärningarna i utbildningen. Det hjälper inte att sysselsättningen blir bättre, det är det turvär kommer att minnas regeringen för, och det har också handlat om ett vardeva från regeringens håll.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u84	Mr President! It is true that the actual budget for you—me—can't blame this, but it can't be praised for being forward-looking either. The lack of humanity in the care of the elderly requires correction now. Investing in children and families requires correction now. We must also ensure that, in the future, we are able to increase the employment rate more and more in order to maintain the financial base of the welfare society. This requires that we better coordinate work and social security. The encouraging basic security of the Christian Democrats provides an excellent model for this. In addition, we also need to develop the intermediate labour market. Everyone with claws needs to be put to work there. During this government we have not seen any investments in the development of the intermediate labour market. On the contrary, there was a rumour sometimes that the legislation of social enterprises, for example, is being pushed down completely. Is the government going to do it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u85	Congressman Väyrynen, and you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u86	Mr President! I am talking about the Euro-elefant, an issue that Parliament does not want to discuss. The citizens' initiative to organise a referendum on Finland's membership of the euro area was buried in the Constitutional Committee by a political decision. I have now taken a legislative initiative on this issue, and the same initiative also concerns a referendum on Finland's membership of the European Union. It can now be signed by representatives. If the euro had been discussed here, it would have been understood how much Finland has suffered from membership of the euro area, as the comparison with Sweden shows. It would have been understood how fragile the euro area is and what would have been done to reduce dependence on the euro area and prepare for future crises with national measures and the break-up of the euro area. Looks like this one's been neglected. The government's budget is empty. Even Commissioner Katainen has warned that a new crisis is emerging in the euro area because the economy has been so strongly revived by quantitative recovery, Professor Stiglitz recently warned of the same. I ask you, Prime Minister... He is not here, so I ask you, Mr Finance Minister: how is the Finnish Government prepared for the forthcoming crisis in the euro area and the break-up of the euro area which is in sight?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u87	We will move on to the so-called normal stage of debatability, and at some point we will give the ministers the floor, perhaps in about 15 to 20 minutes' time, not before. — This debate will be initiated by Mr Kalli. The answer to you, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u88	Mr President! The value choice of the three previous budgets has been respect for and respect for Finnish work and, as a result, the government has succeeded in all key objectives — despite the persistent opposition of the opposition. This budget proposal, which is now under discussion, is continuing along that line. It creates predictability, stability and enables us to make things right in Finland. And that is the best insurance we can use to prepare ourselves for what will happen in an uncertain world. Only by putting our own house in order will we be able to create the stability with which social security, the security of the disadvantaged person, can be improved in the future. The government can be proud, and I ask if it will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u89	Mr President! The situation is very different from that of this government. The economic transition has been significant, as has been well highlighted in this debate. The economy is growing, employment is improving and unemployment is making things easier, but the biggest challenge now is that we have a lot of unemployed people whose skills do not meet today's needs, and there are measures coming, for example, to strengthen IT skills, to further train them and to retrain them. It would be nice to hear from Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen how these actions have now been mobilised and how quickly results can be obtained there. Mr President! I would particularly like to thank the government for raising our everyday security to a whole new level. Let us invest in the police, in the police numbers, but also in the protection police and the army, which means that this whole is now being nurtured in a completely new way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u90	Mr President! Minister Orpo, yesterday I promised to give my greetings from two people from Tampere when I visited the university and various other destinations. Leena, 22 years old, a student, told me that she was an art student and that she had spent about 80 bucks a month studying money. He's afraid to take out a loan because he doesn't know how to work in the future. He asked me to tell you that this is a very difficult matter. This is your achievement, Minister Orpo, during this reign of his life. He'll remember how things are going in the election. Aune, 72 years old, more than 30 years of work experience, a 72-year-old person with three children. He said that the pension is currently less than EUR 1000 per month and that he has had to consider whether to buy medicines or to buy food in the last six months. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u91	President! I am not surprised that so many experienced parliamentarians after parliamentarians declare that they are leaving the parliamentary work. This budgetary debate also reveals that there is no desire between the government and the opposition to seek a common path for the benefit of the Finnish people. The opposition sees nothing good in the government's work, just talks about how the cake should be shared better. I mean, sharing a cake is a nice thing to do, but you have to think that you have to have something to share. Making a cake is at the heart of everything. Now the government is creating the conditions for making a cake. I would like the Minister for Social Affairs to respond when, for example, we are calling out about these indices, what index checks would mean.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u92	All right, Congressman, it's been a lot of time. Next response, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I appreciate the people who dare to bring things up, and the Prime Minister told me a few weeks ago about the situation that Europe has been facing with regard to refugees, how many of them have come after economic security. Now that we look at this budget book — we are taking 1.4 billion debts — this is 700 million for the period 2017-2019 and 700 million for the reception. That is EUR 1.4 billion, and I wonder how much this is going to accumulate in these few years. What are they doing about this in the EU? It feels like we're just talking about more refugees if and when things get right. When will they be put in order, so that we can invest much more in Finns? If the guarantee pension was raised by EUR 9, it was an investment of EUR 10 million. Think about it. Hundreds of millions of dollars go away from the Finnish lobbying machine all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u94	Mr President! This budget is a bit disappointing in many places, but the main disappointment is that it is still not responding properly to the challenge of climate change. At the latest this summer has shown the Finns that we cannot live in a rosary dream, but climate change is here now and it does not wait. That is why I would have liked the government to have made much more ambitious efforts to combat climate change. Subsidies that are harmful to the environment and the climate are in the wrong direction in the budget. More than one billion will be allocated environmentally harmful subsidies, while only one third of this will be invested in renewables. Another big concern is the way education goes. During this term of government, some 900 million have been cut from education. Small amounts of money, project money, project money have now been put in there, but we need investment in basic education, research, and it is basic funding, not separate funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u95	Mr President! Exceptionally, I start with commendation, for when there is reason to thank, it is worth saying aloud. I would like to thank the government for proposing an increase in the minimum health insurance allowance for health care, parental, rehabilitation and special care, which is now about EUR 80 per month, and it is a significant money for many people's income. You also propose an increase of EUR 9 per month in the guarantee pension. This is a very small patch for the big wound that you yourself have caused with index freezes of smaller benefits. Mr President! This government has increased inequality, no matter what is said in this Chamber. You have increased inequality throughout this parliamentary term, and the people are rightly disappointed. You talk about economic growth, but you do not distribute growth evenly to all Finns, even if you have every right to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u96	Mr President! Taxation is not only a source of social funding but also a political or ideological signal, a measure, an instrument. This is particularly true of income tax, which has been the subject of many passions in recent years. For example, a freak who has been completely misleadingly referred to as a solidarity tax has slipped in, as if the progressive tax system as such had not long been of a solidarity nature. Taxation must be adequate, understandable, but also conducive to diligence and activity. How would the Minister of Finance want to improve taxation next season in such a way that economic growth would continue to be boosted by encouraging and fair taxation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u97	Värderade Talman! Det är en mycket positiv sak att regeringen har lyckats uppnå det rai målet med sysselsättningsgraden till 72 percent. Men samtidigt vet vi att det är inte kommer att räcka till när vi tänker på den demografiska utvecklingen. Kanslichef Hetemäki har beräknat att vi inom tio år borde få upp sysselsättningen till 80 percent. Vi har catastrophalt låga födelsesiffror, och därför så frågar jag vad regeringen tänker göra för familijepolitiken så att vi skulle få bättre födelsiffror i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u98	Mr President! What is essential is whether this document is a book of the past or a book of the future. From this year's figure it could be concluded that this should be a guideline for the future of the 2020s. This self-assurance has shown that we are now living at the peak of the economic cycle, but at the same time, according to the Ministry of Finance's own figures, we know that next year we are going to see a halving of economic growth and a further slowdown, with the question being: what should there be in this book that guarantees that economic growth will continue to be sustainable and that employment will rise to 75 %, 80 %?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u101	Mr President! This is the fourth budget when I have been here, and it really makes sense to be involved in saving the Finnish welfare society, as I experience it myself. It would not be wrong if Mr Orpo, Minister of Finance, were elected European Minister of Finance and Mr Sipilä was elected European Prime Minister this year. I think the results are good. State Secretary Hetemäki said well to me that, in order to overcome deficits and poverty, we really need better employment and reforms. This is the big picture we need to move on with. I am also very pleased with the tax programme of this government, which now takes very good account of the low incomes and also of pensioners. I am wondering about this lust tax line by Mr Andersson, which we have heard here today. Finally, I would like to ask: these routers have also recognised the Finnish economy. Now Standard & Poor’s last did it too, but then they pointed out the collapse of the social welfare reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u102	Mr President! Today we must be very grateful that the country's economy is as good as it is at the moment. It is the result of hard and difficult decisions. But looking ahead, the European Central Bank has a bomb that could explode any day and bring very difficult consequences. Interest rates, even according to the government's estimates, will rise if not this year by next year at the latest. We have a huge number of households over-indebtedness. We have a large number of municipalities that are heavily indebted. We have many farming families in distress today. And there are still huge regional disparities, which means that the young people of the crisis are growing. This 55 billion, which is in this book, should have been distributed that way,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u103	Mr President! In general, if something can be agreed by Parliament — I have lived in that belief — things will also move forward, because it is not easy to reach an agreement between all the parliamentary parties. However, to my slight perplexity, I have now noticed this point on which Mr Essayah took a stand, namely that our joint parliamentary decision to organise the financing of the transport network for the years to come, so that the transport repair debt can be reversed, is entirely lacking in your budget. And you, Mr Orpo, replied that the implementation of the parliamentary decision requires a separate solution, and that is why it is up to the next government. Yes, it seems a little strange: is it not possible for this government to make separate decisions, or is it also a general policy for parliamentary decisions to be passed on to the successors? I have imagined that we have all been making these decisions together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u104	Mr President! Representative Mikkonen raised climate issues. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, for his speech and, of course, for this budget, which raises the issue of budgeting for sustainable development. It is an important issue, and it is such that there is not really much international experience of it. We're kind of pedaling a new track, showing a model. There are no benchmarks. This year it was introduced for the first time and now in a more advanced form for next year. I would like to ask Minister Orpo: what kind of developments do you think are going on from now on in order for this model to develop, and what other indicators can be included than gross domestic product, which has traditionally been measured in terms of well-being? And still: What do you consider to be important, important or important when, in all administrative sectors, this budgeting for sustainable development is well included in the budget book? What do you want to pick up and consider important?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u105	Mr President! In the insurance portfolios, assets are hidden, tax payments are transferred. They are even used to circumvent taxation. According to some estimates, insurance cover is even used for insider dealing. And even for the sake of the government's own credibility, it would have been important that these insurance envelopes were firmly addressed. But what was the result of the budget debate? It's a stock-saving account. When it is said that there should be a tight tax base, the government dug out the drills and made more holes in our tax base. The biggest beneficiaries of the equity savings account are the wealthiest, on the one hand financial institutions and banks on the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u108	Mr President! There has been a lot of beautiful words here about how well things are and it has even been declared that the welfare society has been saved. Now I don't really know what I'm supposed to trust. When I looked at the excellent report by the Ministry of Finance, which I highly appreciate, on the impact of this budget on revenue, it must stop in the midst of all this good speech. The Ministry of Finance's report on the distribution of income shows that, due to all government activities, including tax measures, one third of Finns will be able to reduce their disposable income next year. One third of the income is reduced. Is it the highest-income third? Indeed, it is the lowest-income third that will receive less disposable income next year than this year. And you say that everything is fine and wonderful and that the welfare society has been saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u109	Reply to the Minister of Finance. — From that point of view, briefly, in a minute, and then a little longer later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u110	Mr President! To reply to this speech by Mr Heinäluoma: So they are very, very small, the changes that budget-based decision-making, its tax decisions and other decisions bring to Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u115	And here is the answer, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u116	Mr President! You say that these effects are very small, but you now admit that one third of Finns will be reduced by the income that will be available next year as a result of your decisions. And when it comes to small, it means — yes — less than half a percentage less income next year in use than this year. But for those who are low incomes, it's pretty important money. And correspondingly, at that high - income end, you raise income on average at the same rate of less than half a percent. In other words, this means that, unfortunately, this line of yours increases the income gap and it is worth saying when you praise all the good things you have done, because this policy is obviously a conscious policy. I assume that you have already had this information available in the budget debate, which has now been distributed to us: a third of the revenue will fall next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u117	Mr President! As employment improves, the income gap also decreases, that is clear. [ Hustles from the left] Mr. Speaker! Next year, when national Veteran Day is celebrated, its main celebration in Kuopio, I believe that the whole parliament will be very pleased and grateful that the government is proposing that the veterans in general get on the same line as the war veterans in relation to the services to be taken home. Special thanks to Prime Minister Sipilä for this,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u118	Irade the Talman! Prime Minister Sipilä said just now that Finland's economy is one of the top European caste. That is the case if 22 countries are counted as the top caste. According to the latest data, Finland is ranked 22 for growth in the previous quarter: below are only Italy, France, Denmark and Greece — that is, we are not quite the top caste, however. When you follow the situation here in Finland, one third of companies in Uusimaa say that the availability of labour is an obstacle to growth, this figure is close to 50 per cent in Ostrobothnia. So the availability of labour now stands in the way of growth. There are many ways to resolve this. One thing that is quite obvious is the abolition of the question of the availability of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u121	President! The left-wing opposition is talking here about increasing inequality, reducing incomes. In my opinion, this government is an ideological government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u122	I will give two or three speeches at this stage of the debate, followed by Mr Vehviläinen. Now for the answer, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u123	President! This much used by the government in the income gap debate is that we focus on just one tax solution instead of looking at all the fiscal solutions that have been taken during the parliamentary term. In other words, how harmful taxes, indirect taxes affect the livelihood of low income earners or how these other tax reductions targeted at high incomes affect the distribution of income. Another trick is that reference is made to this dynamic calculation, which has assessed the impact of employment on inequality. I think it is more honest to look at how the decisions taken by the government affect the distribution of income, and not only does it not warm up the low-income pensioner or the long-term unemployed, it is standing here and it is said that, through the increase in employment, inequality will be reduced. It does not help when the cuts, which are targeted at the livelihoods of the most low-income Finns, are still maintained. In addition to this, I would like to say to Mrs Mere that you actually received a lot more refugees and asylum seekers when you were in the government than the government is doing now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u124	Mr President! We could begin by asking the same question from the opposition, which many downtown people have asked in recent days, where is the matter of the poor, why there are still cuts in pensions, for example. These greetings, Minister Orpo, were indeed sent to you from the Tampere Chamber of Commerce, and they asked why pensions are still being cut. A low-income pensioner gets a negative sign at the bottom of a cash bag. Minister Orphan, I was holding a pen all summer. I expected that you would come to this book with proposals to correct these injustices and finally get rid of the line of surgery so that, for example, pensioners would be given justice. Unfortunately, however, I did not find such measures, but found this table, which Mr Heinäluoma has just mentioned, according to which one third of the people are reducing their incomes. And, of course, according to the ideology of this government, that third is one of the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u125	At this stage of the debate, I will give answers to the representatives of Järvinen and Hautala, and then Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u126	Mr President! It is true that work to slow down climate change is also a choice of values. The government has tightened the tax on fossil fuels, it must be recognised, but at the same time, fossil fuels receive billion-dollar tax subsidies through reduced tax rates, that is, much more than what is taxed. The same goes for peat. You now tightened the peat tax, but at the beginning of your period you lowered the peat tax so that even after the increase, it will not even reach that level. So you let the bucket, you take the spoon, when these climate issues should be dealt with precisely the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u127	Mr President! It is true that employment has improved, 110,000 new jobs, exports are pulling, the economy is improving and debt is falling. This industrial development has been supported by many centres of expertise in many different regions, i.e. they are experiencing upturns, but they also have great concerns about the future: where are new workers coming from? For example, in South Ostrobothnia Vimpel has some 600 industrial jobs in the municipalities of 3,000 people, and at the moment there are only 20 students on the metal lines at the vocational school in the region and only five of the Vimpelians. This will result in companies having open concerns about the future, about where new workers will come from in the future. That is why more measures are needed for labour mobility and the acquisition of skilled labour. So I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: what does the government's draft budget contain on these very issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u128	Minister Vehviläinen, you can choose the place, and for two minutes, there is no choice. Perhaps in just under 15 minutes, I will give Mr Orpo the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u131	The President does not comment on the Chairman of the Municipal Union Council
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u132	Mr President! It seems to me that when you listen to the left-wing speeches here, the advice of the Left-wing Union of Outi Ojala that a strong state economy is the best friend of the poor has been forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u136	Mr President! To Mr Andersson, I would like to remind you that it was indeed Prime Minister Sipilä, who provided the home, that when you said that you were acquiring more of them, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u137	I will give the answers before the Minister's speech, that is to say the Minister for Finance, to the representatives of Nylander, Östman, Myllykoski, Rinne and Paloniemi, and, if there is a need for such a thing, there may still be someone to get in the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u138	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the final draft budget for this period, and somehow I would have expected that this ambition would have been at its peak, but that is not what happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u139	Mr President! I had not originally intended to give a reply, but there are subjects here. [First Vice-President Mr Pekkarinen : You have your name here. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u142	Mr President! I had prepared the floor, but Mr Satose's speech led me to change the whole content of my speech. I now understand why, after seven and a half years, those who leave Parliament are using strong speeches: Why that kind of language? Why so bad behavior? I admit, I haven't always had an axe in my body. But now I have to tell you, Mr Satonen, that my esteemed parliamentarian, Outi Ojala, would never have accepted such a policy of cutting, and you will bring it here to this House, to this Chamber, as if it were the truth. It is incomprehensible even to hear such language.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u143	Mr President! Minister Vehviläinen, even without these cost-sharing checks, central government participation cuts exceed EUR 100 million through index cuts, double payment of EUR 59 million for holiday payments and then these pro-active central government participation cuts of EUR 33 million, just in connection with this special medical care. That you're gonna cut from the locals, and it's worth confessing and identifying. Mr President! Now we should focus on the future. The world is changing really fast for technology, business structures, for example, according to the platform economy. We now need investments in the future, Minister Orpo, which will pay for themselves. You should have the courage to make those investments now. The knowledge path of education in 2030, as proposed by the Social Democrats, means finding future investments in knowledge, education, research, science that will lead us to the 2030s. We need the honor of science and education, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u144	Mr President! I find it a little strange that the opposition cannot find much good in the way the government does, apart from Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, very nicely raised these minimum daily allowances. That was a good thing to do. But I would like to say about this economic and employment situation that everyone understands that it is very different from the beginning of the regime and the end of the last period. We should be pleased about that now, and we must definitely strengthen this development. I agree with Mrs Hautala that every possible means should now be put in place to increase the contribution of this skilled workforce. There is an increasing need for conversion and continuing training, apprenticeships. It takes a lot of effort. Money has been put in there, but now we have to make this side even more effective. And to Mr Nylander, I would say that this is where some pretty good increases were made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u145	All right, then, with Mr Juvonen, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Reijonen, and then with the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u146	Mr President! In the first place, it is always said that the person who is most silent is the one who has the greatest need. When I look at this budget book, I have been horrified and shocked to follow the Finnish line on how to reduce the number of installations for the elderly, they will be further reduced — it was already beginning in 2014. I ask you: in what way do you ensure that there is a good treatment for all elderly people? Thank you, Mr Orpo, for taking into account my initiative in relation to the military accident law. So next year, the injured or injured military officer will be entitled to the same compensation as those in crisis management. In fact, this law is a little late — but I would like to thank all the Members who signed my bill. I ask you, Minister: is there any possibility, any hope, any means of distribution, that this law may also be applied retrospectively,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u147	Mr President! Mr Yanar gave a rhetorically successful group speech here, but unfortunately it is not possible to say the same about the content. He said that the parliamentary term has been lost, that the term of government has been lost, that there has been no reform of the family leave, that there has been no social security reform, that climate change has not been sufficiently combated and so on. Mr Yanar, you can take comfort in the fact that the previous parliamentary term was also lost in the same way when you were in the government, because even then these were not made. Then you said that we should not make up for the educational savings. Well, let's not. These, which are now being put into education, do not even compensate for the savings made when you were in the government. But I would like to ask Mr Rinne: where does your idea of democracy come from? At least not from the Finnish Constitution, perhaps from some class at Kiljava College, when you said that the shoemaker should stay in his place. The government must therefore not interfere in legislation concerning the labour market. I can't believe it. Does not all legislation belong to the government and Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u148	Once again, I give the floor to the representative for the reply. Arhinmäki between here and here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u149	Mr President! I would like to correct Mr Zyskowicz on one point. You said that the previous government did not reform the family leave, but the previous government extended the parental leave earmarked to the father and made it more flexible so that it could be used in a piece until the child was two years old. It has significantly increased the use of family leave, has significantly increased equality and has made it easier for fathers and families. You were on that board. Are you forgetting that simply because the Minister for Gender Equality did not come from the right, but came from the left? Such achievements were therefore achieved. This government has done nothing for fathers and families with regard to family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u151	And this is the last speech that has been promised at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u152	Mr President! We have to ask the left-wing opposition: will inequality grow if people get a job? The actions of this government have created 110,000 new jobs in Finland. At least this should not increase inequality. In almost every speech you have made this increase in inequality a key role. There was no financial responsibility at all, nothing at all, in the Green Group’s speech. You would always expect that from the opposition. We all know that at the moment the tax line in Finland is very encouraging to entrepreneurship and also to work. The reduction in pension income, the reduction in earnings for the lower income also plays a very important role, and I think that is an excellent thing. I am particularly pleased that more has been invested in security, border security, police. The Border Guard will get 156 new jobs. These are important things. 100 new posts for the Defence Forces as well. That's great.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u153	Minister of Finance, from that podium, maybe a few minutes would be enough. We will give you the floor, Members.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u154	Mr President! With great respect for former representative Ojala, but also for honest representative Arto Satos, it must be said that in 95 — this goes back to history — the left-wing union was involved in the government, and there was surgery and a lot of cutting. In other words, we do not want to make these cut lists here any more, that is why we want economic growth, high employment, and that is what this government has undoubtedly succeeded in doing. Strong economic growth, high employment, is the best way to avoid cutting back on the foundations of our welfare society. And yes, the most important thing that has been said here in a few speeches is looking forward to this good career, the employment rate of 68% to 72. We need to get back to work. This is a good place to go. This budget will give it a basis, yet another step towards 75, as has been said here, and the 80% employment rate we need in the next decade, so that we can guarantee this wonderful welfare society. When I said this was saved, I refer to the situation that was when this government began. The situation was really bad in that economic growth, in those employment figures, in that debt. I think there has been significant, very significant work done here. One detail I would like to correct for Mr Arhinmäki. Insurance envelopes, capitalization contracts are being taxed now. It makes no sense that this rich person, who has enjoyed it at the moment, withdraws it duty-free, transfers it to a stock savings account, but now they are taxed at the same time as the low-income, middle-income person is given the opportunity to save the stock. This is a very important issue of equality, and I hope that you will also take this into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u157	Mr President! We are currently living in a world that is changing really fast, and there is technological development and a change in the industrial structure in the background. Mr Orpo, when you said several times in your speech that we must now consider that we are on a path of sustainable growth, the question is: why are you not prepared to invest in early childhood education and basic education? Why are you not prepared to invest in secondary education, extending free compulsory education, or in the family leave system or social security reform? Why are these future investments not being mobilised in any way? That is why we have criticised your budget as being unseeable. That is why we believe that it lacks a future. These two things can well describe your budget. Minister Orpo, a very important future investment for Finland is to build through education, knowledge the strength to cope with rapid changes in the world. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u158	Mr President! There has been a very shrewd saying here several times: a lost decade or a lost decade. I would remind you that all parties here have participated in this lost decade in one way or another, bearing responsibility, more or less. Our credibility could be increased somewhat by the fact that the government too, a good government, could say that the opposition has relatively good proposals for the future, as it is, and on the other hand the opposition could say that the government is quite comfortable in certain matters, as Mr Pekonen has already said here, and also Mr Essayah, at least in this debate. Politics is always wrong — as President Koivisto said — we know that, but we have to look to the future. Two things arise over others: one is that a good economic bet must continue, and one of them is that the skilled labour force — to which Minister Orpo referred — must be available for successful companies throughout the country. And another important point is that we must be able to improve our policy to strengthen integrity so that we do not end up in another lost decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u160	Mr President! I simply asked for the floor to return to this speech by Mrs Myllykoski, which I did find quite unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u165	Mr President! Raising the employment rate is a key issue for Finns. There is a need to improve the conditions for work and enterprise, but without confrontation. The skills of many Finnish unemployed people are of a high standard, and by far the majority of unemployed people are also motivated. Today, especially from the ranks of the RKP, many others, there is a glimpse of the elimination of labour supply considerations, but unfortunately, despite the economic upturn and hard job search, there are no job opportunities even for all Finnish unemployed people, especially in my own region. High housing costs and the cost of mobility, among other things, make it difficult to find employment in another locality. At the same time, they feed on the purchasing power of Finns, vaccinating the most low-income citizens, for example many pensioners. It is all excluded from domestic consumption and from companies operating on the domestic market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u166	Madam President! This budget once again reflects the hard values of the government. Now, in the run-up to the elections, the parties are concerned about the poverty of families with children and pensioners, but the actions have been quite the opposite throughout this parliamentary term. I have to ask: Why is it that the centre-run government is not immediately tackling the poverty of families with children in this budget? Why are the index freezes of benefits not cancelled, since the economy is now doing better? Why not give up the increase in the responsibilities of medicines in this budget if we genuinely want to make life easier for those on low incomes? Mr President! The value of the Left Alliance does not fit in with the fact that, at the same time as our 100,000 children are living in poverty and the bread queues are growing, the government has reduced taxes by more than EUR 1 billion, the richest of which have benefited most. I would ask you, Minister: are you prepared to tackle genuine poverty in families with children, for example, by converting child benefits into privileged support, so that those families who live on income support can also, in practice, receive the child benefits for themselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u167	Värderade fru talman! I gruppanförandet lyfte patrolrdförande Henriksson fram bland you give tre saker som jag tycker är centrala: Satsningar på utbildning, forskning och innovationer. Större flexibilitet på arbetsmarknaden, en effektivare arbetsförmedling, Sloped behovskrövning. Satsningar på välmående i arbetet, förebyggande älsoarbete, satsningar på motion. De är alla tre saker som är jätteviktiga, och där regeringen tututurr inte gjort tillräckligt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u168	Mr President! Mr Orpo, you said earlier that you are concerned about the employment of citizens, but you are now, as a result of the codecision of the various ministers, rejecting the most difficult young people. There are 270 workshops in Finland that currently employ some 20,000 young people. They need support in day-to-day management and training. Their aim is to move on to education and work. Some 80% of them move to work or training after this workshop period. Now, as a result of these decisions made by you, some 5 to 7 workshops will be able to function in the future, i.e. some 260 workshops will be driven down. As a result, you will now leave a large number of very vulnerable young people on top of nothing. You're gonna throw them away. You have no similar system built to safeguard the future of these young people. Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u170	Madam President! One figure that is also worth mentioning here is a minus sign, but a strong plus and shows that this is certainly not a lost government term. More than EUR 300 million less will need to be budgeted for next year's unemployment security expenditure. That amount was over EUR 100 million a year ago. That's amazing, government! We received 100,000 unemployed as a gift, now nearly 120,000 people have received the job. This is the best social security for many, many homes. Mr President! We also know that it is not just the euro that helps the weakest, but the services that are at the heart of it, and that is what this government wanted to do. We have supported services for the elderly, home and family care, services for children, families and young people, and services for those who are able to work part-time. These too should be remembered when
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u171	Madam President! There are also investments in the government budget in the right direction, even though we often have big disagreements about the size classes. Responsibility and faith in the future have been called for in this debate. All the issues raised in the debate are important, people are important. There is, however, far too little talk about a subject whose underestimation actually undermines all other policies, and that is climate change. The government has said emphatically that we must not leave the burden of debt to our children. That's right. The same logic is that we must not leave unresolved the fight against the climate crisis, in which delay is retaliatory in a way that is costly for generations after us and for the whole earth. The government has not combated climate change with sufficient seriousness and this budget will not change the matter. The latest follow-up report of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change revealed truly alarming news.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u172	Mr President! It is quite true that in 2015, the Finns of Peru, especially the Finns of Peru, were opposed to us keeping the border open because we could have saved billions of euros. When the Left Alliance said that there were more asylum seekers than they did in their day, I always thought that these other parties would first come to the immigration line of the Finns, that it was nice to hear that the Left People have also come. But then, Minister Orpo, according to experts, economic growth in Europe, economic growth in the world and growth in the world economy are actually thanks to our jobs. So, despite the growth of the world economy, that is, despite the government, these jobs have come. That's why I'd like to ask you: What are the actions of the Minister that have actually improved the life of a Finnish entrepreneur, the concrete bureaucracy? And what kind of industrial policy do you intend to pursue in order, for example, to preserve the jobs of Pori Venator in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u173	Madam President! Let us pick up where we left off in that speech. Representative Heikkinen inspired the good government's efforts to limit unemployment insurance fund contributions, which meant that the convention received the tomorrow's gift that the tax resources of 300 million could be abandoned. So I ask the Minister: how did you see, when you had this discussion between the government, that there could still be a reduction in taxation during the upturn, when we know that Finland is still living from crisis to crisis? We cannot help it that, in any case, there is always a lack of flexibility in business. And now we are exactly where we are running out of direct jobs at 450 Venator in Satakunta, Pori, and that is probably what will happen. Should we not have piled up the reserves right now and already see that these crises can be managed with different structures?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u174	Mr President! Minister Orpo said that sustainable development will be invested in the future, and I think this is a very good thing. But I was also somewhat unclear when I read this book that what it means in concrete terms, because I think it is somewhat opaquely written in this budget book. For example, sustainable development essentially involves the welfare economy, and I did not find the welfare economy in this budget book. The government's savings on children and the elderly are in quite different directions than the idea of sustainable development. Would it not finally be time to introduce welfare indicators alongside GDP in order to achieve a truly comprehensive assessment of the achievement of sustainable development?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u175	Mr President! I asked to speak to praise the government's tax policy and next year's income tax proposal. It is very balanced and cyclical, and it gives rise to increases corresponding to an increase in earnings on all levels of income. Then, of particular importance is the historically large increase in the basic deduction. After all, its maximum will be EUR 3100 to EUR 3305. A few tens have been raised this season every year and in previous periods, but this is historically high. In addition, the reduction in work housing will be increased from EUR 250 to EUR 450, or EUR 200. It will help those who are forced to hold two jobs and will also promote labour mobility and the reception of work further away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u176	Let's let the minister give us an answer. — Minister Orpo. Is that enough for two minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u177	Mr President! On the subject of labour taxation: So we never had to negotiate the situation if this TVR bill had not come. But the starting point, why, the idea of ensuring that no one is taxed more heavily, is, among other things, related to the famous holiday allowance cuts. If we did not compensate for the tax tightening of a low-paid public worker from the Kikis agreement, I think that would be wrong. Would you have wanted those blackmails there on the left, with the kiky agreement which I understand you have not particularly liked? This was precisely how we have thought about the whole, and now it is certainly going to open up the whole, why we have acted as we have done. I do not want to go back to another point, particularly to debat this asylum policy, but I would just like to say to the Finns of Peru that in 2015 we decided, together within the government, that internal border controls were not returned to the Swedish border, but that reinforced external border controls were introduced to achieve the same result. It was done together. At the time, not one of the True Finns presented it or demanded it, and we were quite satisfied with the politics that had been made at the time. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u178	Madam President! Last week, about 90 people visited me here in Parliament and each had a common cause for wonder. It was where the government actually lives. It is strongly linked to what has been discussed here today. The members of the Board of Directors have explained how fine reforms have been made, how income differentials have not increased and how everyone is doing better at the moment. This is not the case, however, when people in their daily lives know that they have to choose whether they have money for food or do they have money for medicines. According to THL, poverty among families with children has continued to grow, with 120,000 children living below the poverty line. It is an intolerable situation in view of the fact that children are born the least since the famine. And yes, one must be genuinely surprised at the Minister of Finance’s complimentary list — even the President was not going to get you out of that toilet — when you have the Ministry of Finance’s own budgetary revenue-sharing effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u179	Mr President! I would have liked to praise the government for these new jobs, but it must of course be said that the Minister of Finance does not remember that, when you were Minister of the Interior, we also discussed these issues in the Administrative and Security Section and in private, that now, if ever, we should consider putting the Swedish border on hold for a moment. And why should I have done this? This is the case today, if you do not happen to know, for example, France: from Italy when you cross internal borders, there in 24 hours the real weight of the asylum seeker's asylum statement will be dealt with and returned to Italy. That is what we heard just last week when we were on our way to the Italian Parliament by the Section for Administration and Security. Many countries in Europe now use this internal border inspection interpretation somewhat differently from the one used here in Finland. They do not accept that internal movement takes place. In that sense, Minister, I would like us to be able to live at the heart of Europe in the moment and defend our own borders and not allow people to wander around freely and choose their own asylum and asylum,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u180	Mr President! There has been a lot of criticism here about measures to combat climate change, which the government supposedly does not do. I'm sure we're very wrong about this. This period has seen the government become the world's top champion in the fight against climate change, and there are numerous international comparisons to this effect. It is clear that no country is doing enough in the world, but here are a few actions for this period: Finland's first climate minister in history, UN Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 under the Government for the first time in the world, the review of the implementation of the UN Agenda on Sustainable Development in various administrative budgets for the first time in the world, the tightening of emissions trading to work, the increase of the renewable energy target to more than 50%, the increase of the energy efficiency target, strict emission restrictions on cars entering the market and heavy vehicles, the ban on coal 2029, fuel blending obligation, support for the purchase of electric cars
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u181	President! Mr Kosonen, unfortunately the only decisive factor in climate change is how much carbon goes into the atmosphere and how much is out of it. It now seems that the government's logging policy itself nullifies the large-scale positive climate measures. In this career, we will not even play our part in curbing climate change, let alone be pioneers in some way. This budget therefore means another lost year for which we cannot afford, because interest is increasing all the time. Next spring elections will certainly change the course somewhat in this respect too, but this is an issue in which we cannot really wait for the 2020 budget. That is why I would really like the government to show some clarity and responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u182	Madam President! Now we are experiencing a boom, but some speakers have rightly pointed out that the upturn may be around the corner and interest rate policy is very likely to be tightening. Brexit, the uncertainty surrounding the development of EMU — there are many things that may change these prospects very quickly. In that sense, in my previous speech on the debate, I called for an ever-better level of employment to be the way in which we can prepare ourselves for this sustainability of the welfare society. The development of intermediate labour markets, but also the maintenance and continuation of the good employment trials currently in force, such as these local government employment experiments, is extremely important, because the fact that we personally guide the unemployed person and take care of people produces the best results in this employment policy, not the fact that we put jobs on the Internet. We need that personal encounter. I ask the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u183	Mr President! I think Mr Yanar spoke rather harshly about the opportunities lost. I would like to ask Mr Yanar: what do these 120,000 new jobs and their families think of this government Iipale? Do they think this is a missed opportunity? Or is the permanent increase of 112 million in research funding also a missed opportunity? Or the fact that, while the Greens are in opposition, Finland has significantly increased its investment in promoting climate policy? Compared to around 60 countries, Finland ranked 32 in 2015 this year already ranked 9. Do you also think that was a missed opportunity? I believe, Mr President, that the only opportunity lost was for the Greens to speak constructively about the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u184	Madam President! I would like to pay attention to two things. I would not be terribly calm as to what this economic growth and the prospects for exports will look like in the future if this growth is just over 1% in the years to come. This is why all these future investments are very important in order to ensure this growth base and are related to research and product development. Although the appropriations have now been increased, we must nevertheless be honest and say that these cuts have been greater than those which are now being made, and that more needs to be done. The other is about knowledge. We have the need for vocational retraining for more than one million adult people in this country and it is linked to investment ground so that it is worth investing in this country. It has to do with productivity growth. We need to strengthen these conditions for new-time industry and services and export conditions, and they are slightly less visible in this budget. The second point is that if we are to increase the employment rate to at least 75%, then action must be taken to create the most difficult jobs for those who are employed: to get those who are able to work part-time into the labour market, to get the hidden unemployed into the labour market. Now this growth service package restricts the capacity of municipalities to organise employment. Municipalities spend more than a billion dollars a year on employment, and now restrictions and obstacles are being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u185	Mr President! Of course, the situation of asylum is something that needs to be resolved at European level, but when you look at the situation from a national point of view — in Finland last year about 2,000 new applications for asylum — the situation has been put right for Finland. We cannot say the same for Europe, but we can say the same for Finland. As far as the people of Peru are concerned, I am surprised that I do not believe they are in favour of the EU-Turkey refugee agreement. Based on all the expertise I have read, this agreement has been very important for preventing asylum seekers from entering Europe. I do not think it is responsible for opposing this agreement. Blues don't want borders open or closed, they need to be taken care of. This involves security, of course, including these 100 new jobs for the Defence Forces. I would like to ask the Minister: when we look at the economy of the next few years — and this is certainly something that many parties and representatives here share — how do you think we can use as much money as possible for the security of Finns, both internally and externally?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u186	Mr President! Of course, we are all happy about every job that was born, but as was the case here, at the time of making the cutting lists, this government took from those who had the least of them. And now that it was time to give it back, this money should have been returned first and foremost to these most vulnerable pensioners, to those who live on mere study aid, to those sick people whose medical compensation ceiling has risen. I should have taken care of the weakest ones. Instead, the government has been looking for tax reductions for the middle-incomers and has forgotten about these most vulnerable ones. This is the problem and this is the inequality we are concerned about. Because of the lack of participation that is growing in this community — we have already lost many young people, they are no longer able to manage at school, they have no prospects — basic funding is needed, strong funding is needed for both basic education and early education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u187	Madam President! The priorities of this government's last budget have been well highlighted in two respects — work, employment and education — but the third, security, has been a little smaller in this debate. In recent years, the feeling of security has been shaken for many ordinary Finns. Security is a fact, but it's also a feeling. That is why it is good that efforts are now being made, among other things, to increase police resources by 36 million and, above all, to the sparsely populated area, where it has often been so often that the police cannot be seen and cannot even reach it when invited. Thank you for this. Thank you, too, for the additional efforts of the protection police. There will also be additional investment in the army. But I would hope that there will still be a broad consensus here in Parliament that we will have intelligence legislation as soon as possible, as it is an important part of this overall security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u188	Mr President! There has been a lot of controversy here about what these income-sharing effects of government policy are, and even the government did not seem to know about them, but fortunately then the myth-breaker representative, Mr Heinäluoma, went through this. And so it is, as these budget books prove, when we see that the government's policy of decision-making is causing the income of people in smaller income categories to fall and the income of those on higher incomes to rise. That's the way it is. This is the truth. Mr President! I am sure that we all agree that this good employment growth, which is at the root of it, should continue and need various measures to help it. One such measure is certainly not to take away at least the various activities that are now being successfully carried out in various parts of Finland, and this is linked to these municipal experiments in employment. Could the President give Mr Satonen another floor so that Mr Satonen could tell us why this government proposal is so silly and must be amended by his legislative initiative. The President-in-Office could do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u189	The floor will be distributed here. — Mr Talja.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u190	Mr President! The Government has taken responsible steps to prepare Finnish society against the major problems that await us. We need wider shoulders, for that we need a taste-site reform, but our biggest problem is working. The Finnish dependency ratio will be weakened by the fact that at present there are about 47 per cent of us working. In 15 to 20 years' time, this figure will be less than 30%. Now the government has been able to increase the employment rate by 5%. That is a good start, but we also need to improve other conditions for working. That is why we need an overall reform of social security, and that is the direction in which we have already been moving forward on a number of issues that promote work. The reform of working time has been carried forward in such a way that, at the moment, the government's proposal includes, among other things, unemployment support and income from work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u191	Mr President! Recently, much has been said in public about political misunderstandings. Those discussions occurred to me when I listened to the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to Mr Ojala-Niemela's speech and to those of the Social Democrats. You said that it is never the right time for the government to reflect on the situation of the most vulnerable people. My question is whether you have ever been in a government that makes such significant improvements: raising the minimum daily allowance to the level of labour market support, talking about EUR 20.50 per month for low-income, secondary school students, under 20-year-olds will receive an educational material supplement of around EUR 47 per month, increasing the guarantee pension, income tax solutions do not increase the income gap, emphasising them on low- and middle-income income, increasing employment. My question is: have you ever been in a government that in this way eradicates inequality? And I encourage the government to push forward, even if the opposition opposes it. Go ahead, because the interests of all Finns, especially those in the most difficult position, are that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u192	Mr President! Yes, I have been in the government, in the 2003 Vanhanen government, which significantly improved the position of the lowest-incomed, made up of as many as two different poverty packages, which then contributed extensively to improving the various benefits. Although I was not in the last government, I recall when I saw from the President's podium that it made quite significant improvements to income support in the midst of all the savings and also to labour market support and the improvement of unemployment allowance — yes, it has been done before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u196	Madam Speaker! It should be noted that when we look at the figures in this draft budget, when this period began, the opposition called for these employment objectives to be utopia, nothing will be achieved by the way you put it, Prime Minister. That's what they said three years ago. The same message must have been heard by the Minister of Finance in red when nothing succeeds. Now that it has come true, now you have a huge need to explain why this happened. Will you not one day, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, think about whether it is worth paying attention to the effectiveness of policy? When you were in the government, 100,000 unemployed and 20 billion sovereign debt were created. It's a policy that's effective, for God's sake. If you do not notice these figures, then the figures are strange if at least you do not keep in mind. I can't help it. Mr President! After all, the biggest thing this parliamentary term has ever been about the bioeconomy. More new growth has been achieved in this country, and we must continue along the same lines. Of course, all sorts of initiatives are taking place to try to prevent the country's rational management of the economy, but not all the wild speeches say that running is worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u197	Madam President! When reforms are carried out, they should be done in such a way that citizens feel that justice is involved. Unfortunately, this is not the case, for example, with regard to the government's regulation on concentration, and then I am talking about regional hospitals and central hospitals. At the moment, we have a situation in Finland where well-functioning hospitals are being driven down. The central-driven government has consciously demanded that even smaller cuts should no longer be made in the localities, such as Iisalme, Pietarsaari, Rauma, Raahe and so on. This has been sad to see, and I hope that the government will wake up, because these measures will not really achieve savings. Currently, patients are made to travel in Kela taxis, which also do not work: the journeys have been prolonged and patient safety has been affected. Government: When are you going to wake up? When are you going to make fair decisions on these issues too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u198	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen is obliged to say that when Mr Ojala-Niemelä spoke of lack of vision, the focus will be on the future and that concern will actually be genuine. As Mr Ihalainen said, economic growth is not forever, growth is not forever, so the question is: what are the engines of growth, Minister, to which you believe in in the long term? There is a real reason to be concerned about what the 2020s are now looking like for Finland, because it is quite clear that we need to find those sustainable growth fins. Compared to Sweden, our business structure is much narrower, we are still more vulnerable to attacks than Sweden or Denmark, for example, not to mention Germany. In some ways, this whole period of government becomes such a project government: we talk about projects, but where are the entities? It's something you can see in small things. For example: A mobile school project, a good project, you interrupt
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u199	Madam President! Finland has taken the lead in statistics on happiness: we are the happiest country. I'll be surprised. We have bread lines. We have bread lines and we have people who are definitely not telling us what their happiness is like. They're in the squares. They're coming to talk. They are usually small-time pensioners, have worked their whole lives and receive a small pension and have to wonder whether they buy drugs or buy food. And yes, I think this way that perhaps not everyone and everyone has been asked if we are happy. We have bread lines. That's where people line up for shit. I find it absolutely shocking. And there are also immigrants. In fact, this survey was also conducted in the way that immigrants feel happy about themselves, and in that, too, Finland became number one. But there are also immigrants in bread lines. I've been in Porvoo, among other things, on the bread line. Then from these elderly: The share of home care will increase, but the number of enhanced service housing will not. The number of old people's homes and institutional care is decreasing. Is that a good policy? I see that the elderly are forgotten, and I ask you, make a noise that we get resources there and that we have a nurseship.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u200	Mr President! The fact that the coalition has forgotten that it was in the previous government and everything that the previous government has done is an interesting addition to this debate. For example, I would like to say to Mr Sarkomaa that the previous government invested 400 million in improving basic security, including through this EUR 100 increase in unemployment allowance. So the sum of these contributions, which Mr Sarkomaa has just listed, is 30 million, which, at least according to my math skills, sounds a lot smaller than what the previous government did. Mr President! In addition, it is populist and intellectually dishonest to argue that a continuous reduction in the tax rate would not also have an impact on the balance of central government finances and on the financing of welfare services. In an ageing Finland, there is also a need to take care of the quality of services for the elderly, and there is also a concern that these continuous cuts, which will be kept under pressure due to tax reductions, will also cut back on the investments needed to raise the employment rate, such as investment in education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u201	Madam President! Many lost and lost speeches have been used here, and I will now try not to waste my time and the rest of you and show some thanks. Of course, there would be a cause for complaint, and although I am a member of the government, I am not quite happy with everything, but I am thinking of focusing more on the thanks and a few ideas for development. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary parties for correcting this injustice against the war ovals and veterans, and we, this generation, are trying to pay a little of our own debt of honour. Thank you for raising the minimum daily allowance, not just unemployment benefit as sometimes. Almost a hundred dollars for minimum human safety. And thank you for once again finding money for the distress of agriculture, although, of course, these solutions are not sustainable at the moment. We need the market to work. Mr President! One last thank you, I do not have time for development proposals. I would like to thank you for the first time in our regional and industrial policy to take account of the cities in the region. This has at least been a broad objective for us in the centre, and support has also come from other parties. I would like to thank you for not losing so much of these speeches and times here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u202	Mr President! First, two thanks: The measure is not what is needed, but the R & D funding has changed direction slightly more correctly than it had gone so far. Budgeting already highlighted here by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen: First steps to bring sustainable development and the UN Agenda 2030 to our administrative sectors. Of course, there is a need to increase the level of ambition in order for us to actually move forward on this climate change issue in the way the world's development requires. Then the question is, what's going to get in the air? There has been a lot of praise here for the increase in employment, for which we are delighted, but in order for it to be sustainable and for the future to be real, then of course we should consider what the employment performances of the 2020s are. Here we go back to this extension of compulsory education to the second stage. You don't work on comprehensive school. We have that constant group of almost 15%, which is left to primary school alone, and we have not had jobs for that group for a long time now. This has been lost one year after, if we do not make this reform, and we will then see these results in the future. I would still like to hear the comments of Mr Orvo, Minister of Finance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u203	The Minister would like to respond. Let's give Secretary Orphan two minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u204	Mr President! Thank you. I'd be very happy to respond to this. — This extension of compulsory education is, in itself, a subject matter. I am not taking that position. It is a whole thing. The SDP has now spoken of this whole learning path. That's what it's all about. That is why the whole education system has been reformed, and early childhood education has actually been invested in it, even though one might think otherwise on the basis of a general debate. Comprehensive school — last season, together with the reform of the curricula, was launched, it has been completed. High school reform is underway. Second-degree reform has been carried out with a lot of good things in it. So the starting point is that if we think of future reforms, the reform of the education system will carry each of our children — each of the 50,000, hopefully in the future, out of 60,000 — into a good life, will enable us to respond to digitalisation, technological change, changing labour markets, global labour markets. This is what it is all about, and it is not resolved in one way; you emphasise it so much. The whole thing is what you really need to get under control. If we remain on this school side: The mobile school was the top project, and the idea of these key projects was precisely that they should be given to those who are put on the move, who become permanent activities, so that something good can be put on the move. And yes, the schools have taken this moving school as their own. Now it has done its job. It spins, it works, it's felt really good, and now it's extended to the second degree. I think it's just a positive thing. Then, if we look at the future employment rates, yes, we need those reforms, and the reform of the social security system is everything, an encouraging social security system. I would argue that when we have between 260,000 and 270,000 unemployed at the moment, for a lot of people, it is not worth taking a job if you get less — even if you go to the store there. That's the biggest problem. It's not the unemployed person's fault. It's the system's fault. It is an excellent thing that all parliamentary parties seem to be committed to social security reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u205	Mr President! We must continue this debate on the extension of compulsory education. Of course early childhood education, pre-school education, comprehensive school form a continuum. When I read the legislation of professional reform and went through situations in different countries, in Denmark — listen, Minister Orpo — 60 percent will continue after primary school in such a way as in the tenth grade, they have not been able to move on to secondary school or professional, 60 percent. And now Professor Scrooge Uusitalo sees that this is in the interests of society as a whole. But you are right, Minister Orpo, that this also requires the pedagogical and substantive development of comprehensive school, so that the children will become self-evident that it is a learning process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u206	We have to get there in a shorter time. — — — — Congressman Frost.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u207	Madam President! I'll try not to lose the idea that there's enough time. I think there are very good things in this state budget proposal, including employment issues. It is important that there are more than 100,000 new jobs. The question has been raised as to whether new jobs have been created by calculating taxes. If that logic works in such a way that, when taxes are calculated, jobs are created, which will generate more tax revenue, then I think it is quite profitable to do so: you can think that even by lowering taxes you can create jobs. However, I particularly welcome this consideration of the Defence Forces and the Border Guard in this draft budget, because it has been said over the years that staff needs more resources, more resources. This has now been heard by the staff and the Defence Forces receive 100 htp, among other things. In this respect, I consider this proposal to be excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u208	Mr President! With some recollection of the past here, I too recall that exactly 13 years ago, when Mr Heinäluoma became Minister of Finance Heinäluoma, the first thing he presented to Parliament was the abolition of the property tax. [Quick Five] From 40000. Among the richest in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u209	Madam President! When this government put together goals for what the government program should accomplish, quite a few believed that they could be achieved. But as we have heard today and as we can see from the budget proposal, so it is only the government that has achieved its main objectives, and it is, of course, the result of determined work. What is particularly great is that employment has increased. And in this regard, I am very concerned that there seems to be no interest on the left side of the Chamber in what Parliament could do to increase jobs. There are mainly calls for more subsidies and such things, but what we can do here, in addition to more jobs, is of concern to me. Or is it the case that the Social Democratic Party follows the line made this weekend by its chairman, Antti Rinte, that matters relating to jobs do not belong to Parliament and the government, but are only a matter for trade unions to resolve?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u210	Mr President! Of course, it would make it easier for us to communicate here if we had been familiar with the option of the SDP. Over the past three years, we have systematically had different papers as an alternative, including entrepreneurship paper and many measures to promote employment, including in industry, investment in learning — no matter what. It would be easier if you read them. Mr President! As far as this fairness of tax policy is concerned, I would just like to point out that, at the time when these particular asset tax solutions were made, dividends were also taxed and tax revenues increased. And this is a good way to achieve this tax justice, which unfortunately today is not reflected in the policy of this government. I originally asked for this reply to say that the SPD would tax low-income employees and pensioners less than this government — Mr Satonen’s answer would have been. At the same time, I would have liked to thank Mr Sato for this bill which he has taken and which he said is nonsense that these well-functioning experiments on employment should be abolished, and I would also like the Minister's comment on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u211	Madam President! Yes, safety is a key element of this budget, as is the whole of the immediate future. And security, of course, comes from the fact that we have a sound financial base, we have jobs for people. Safety comes from the fact that we have security of supply issues in mind, energy issues, our domestic energy production is in order, and of course also food production. The fact that we are now investing in this drought package for next year and taking care of Finnish food production is one of the most important safety issues too. Security is now being invested in the police by increasing the budget, and the Defence Forces will be given the well-needed hundred new posts, which were cut in 2012. They can now be returned a little. The problem of survival there is great. Thank you very much for finally getting the war veterans and veterans on the same line next year, and their services will therefore be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u212	Madam President! In my previous speech, I called for Mr Rinte's view of democracy and of who has legislative power in this country. Mr Rinne has then spoken but has not answered this question. I really think this is a serious question. Mr Rinne is the chairman of the major parliamentary party, and he did indeed — and I do not get it wrong — say in the first sass last Saturday that ‘in his stowaway less’ and considered that the government would not intervene in the preparation of legislation on working life. I am indeed asking Mr Rinte and the other social democrats where this concept of democracy comes from. Is it from Mussolini's Italy, where it was really thought that it was the corporations that had labour law, not Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u213	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz should probably address his question to Mr Suutari, whom he has just spoken about. — But in order for things to be on a scale, 0.2% of the entire state budget is moved here. So this means that if the family’s budget for next year were 50000 euros, this would now be a dispute over where the 100 or parts of the $100 should be put. This shows the level of ambition or ambition here, unfortunately. But the real news of this debate was what the myth breaker, representative of Heinäluoma, said here that one third of Finns lose this government proposal. That's important information. The most deprived third loses. This brings up a certain trick by the Ministry of Finance, which is that we always talk about tax reductions without mentioning what they compensate for: kiky cuts and pension indices, with the result that, for pensioners, tax reductions do not compensate for the purchasing power of low-income and middle-income pensions, but only when you earn more than EUR 3400,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u214	Mr President! It is also very positive in this budget that three different regions are being given the possibility of a bridge agreement in connection with a positive structural change. Today I was on the sidelines of the Kajaani delegation when they wondered how they could deal with this situation, where Kajaani has a real shortage of labour at the moment. In Varsinais-Suomi and south-west Finland it has already been. After all, we are certain to have 30,000 new jobs, and the yard, for example, has a view for five to six years to come. So in this way, even though the economy is at risk in the world and in Finland, we also have such permanent elements that create well-being for us. The question now is how to make the programme work in these regions, including North Savo and Ostrobothnia, so that the availability of labour, the training of skilled workers and the transport infrastructure can be particularly affected. The very good thing about this budget is that the tax deduction right of the second dwelling rises to EUR 450. It's important. But how do you see it, I'll ask the finance minister, Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u215	Mr President! Mr Juvonen rightly raised those bread lines that are seen in different cities, especially here in the capital region. The unfortunate fact is that, quite often, poverty is linked to unemployment. And that is why I very much welcome the development of employment, like many others here, that we have achieved 120,000 new jobs this season. But I would like to remind Mr Juvonen and others that there are improvements to this budget for others as well. This means raising the minimum daily allowance, increasing labour market support by 20 million, proposing a net reduction of EUR 4.4 million for the 55 days of sickness allowance, adding EUR 10 million to the guaranteed pensions of the lowest-income pensioners, improving the position of over-indebtedness, improving the basic security of the lowest-income families for young children, increasing parental allowances, improving the status of adoption and plural families,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u216	Mr President! I thought that when this is such a fine budget, the ministry would be proudly filled with ministers to answer this. This was finally Minister Orpo, and now he did not answer the questions asked by the True Finns, and now he too has disappeared, unfortunately, but I am still presenting them — whether through television or from somewhere where he goes, hears and answers. In other words, he did not answer whether this asylum policy programme would be implemented. He said that he would not like to discuss these matters. I am surprised because I pointed out to him that within a few years we are spending 1.4 billion on reception costs and integration alone, that quite a lot of money is going to go into this now. How does the Minister of Finance not want to discuss this? Nor did the answer come with regard to this fuel tax. There are promises if the world market price rises. There was no answer to that either, and now the last minister has disappeared.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u217	Madam President! There has been a call here for the social democrats' idea of parliamentaryism. We have been in history the party that has defended it even when there have been few friends in this country. Our idea of parliamentaryism is that Parliament has legislative power. Parliament decides on the laws, that is quite clear. It is now a question that Finland's strength has been based throughout history on the fact that we have also had a strong contractual society, which has supported parliamentaryism, has not been a threat to it. This concrete legislative process, and some others, has forgotten the genuine principle of tripartite preparation. The government has listened to one representative organisation, whose name is SY, here to undermine the protection of companies with fewer than 20 employees. If this had been prepared with a broad consensus, as has always been the case with labour laws or wage-based social security, this has not been the case in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u218	Madam President! I am not at all denying the historical merits of the SDP as a defender of democracy and parliamentarianism,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u221	Madam President! There has been talk of security here, and we have a broad concept of security, in which people see exclusion and non-participation as the main threat and cause of a feeling of insecurity. There has been talk of police officers — fine, and the police are an important part of it, and we fully support that thinking, despite the fact that the government's balance in this regard is less than 159 police officers, minus 159 police officers this season; we as Social Democrats would have liked us to have kept that number of police officers at least at 7200 levels all the time. But the greater threat is that hundreds of millions of euros — hundreds of millions of euros — will be taken from municipalities that provide people’s services and their livelihoods. All of us, as decision-makers, see it in our own municipalities how much of each municipality will be taken out of the state for next year. In this context, the feeling of insecurity and insecurity is likely to grow,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u222	Mr President! To this previous speech, it must be said that during the previous government, the majority of these austerity measures were made to the central government shares of municipalities, as Mr Paatero well knows. But Prime Minister Juha The Sipilä government will remain in history in a positive sense in the sense that it will achieve all the objectives of economic policy. All objectives have been achieved. Such a government has hardly existed in Finland before. As far as employment is concerned, 120,000 new jobs have been created, but its spillover effect is many times greater when families are involved. From 300,000 to 400,000 Finns feel better both mentally and economically through these jobs. There are many families with children and difficult life situations. As far as slowing down debt is concerned, that is the best future policy for our children. The debt burden will be smaller as we keep the economy under control. I would like to highlight only one positive contribution: a significant increase in Business Finland's funding, which brings us jobs and livelihoods, exports and this economic growth, and hence prosperity, which can then be targeted for all good purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u223	President! The opposition has been saying here to the point of boredom how inequality is growing. The government is actually taking specific measures to ensure fairness: the minimum daily allowances will be increased by EUR 80; the guarantee pension will be increased for the third time in a row; the 55 days of sickness allowances will be removed from the lowest incomes; the educational material supplement will be added to the school children of low-income families; the social security of the family members of entrepreneurs will be improved. On the other hand, the left-wing opposition, the red-green opposition, says only about index checks, which would have meant approximately EUR 8 on average. More targeted measures than wrong ones
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u224	Madam President! There have been various educational policy reforms introduced by the Minister of Finance, Mr Orponk, but if we consider that this billion training has been cut almost from the funding of education this period, then these measures which the government is proposing will unfortunately not be enough. We'll all grow up under the dirt when we get to the starting point if we move forward. A good example of reform in itself, which is now falling into this surgeries, is of course a reform of vocational education and training, an important objective, but since it has become a reform of surgery, the results are extremely worrying. I would like to say a few more words about immigration policy once it has come up here. In 2015, when the situation was so-called acute and more people arrived in Finland, the government handled the situation quite well with civil society and municipalities — until a situation was reached to tighten up the laws, weaken human rights and make changes that many people have now paid with their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u225	Mr President! Mr Kivelä is quite right in that, when we look at inequality, we need to look at broader indicators than just differences in income. But this is the problem. That's the problem. All these meters are red. True, when the welfare state was not built in a day, it will not be dismantled in a day. Some of the effects won't be visible until tens of years later. But the direction is clear. When we look at any measure — the inheritance of education, the differences in the circumstances of children, the poverty of families with children — they all look in the same direction, and that direction is growing inequality. And this is the problem. Although these indicators change slowly, even though they change slightly afterwards, they must be followed very easily because they tell us what is the big line in this society in which we are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u226	Mr President! In my opinion, the decision taken by the government in the budget debate to change the status of a non-owner family member from an entrepreneur to an employee in the granting of unemployment benefit has not been commended enough. At present, a person working in a company who is a family member of an entrepreneur and lives in the same household as an entrepreneur is considered to be an entrepreneur. This also applies when an employment contract has been signed and the employee’s pension insurance contributions are paid. This has been a clear flaw in the Unemployment Protection Act, which is very important to correct, as the current law has led and leads to unacceptable consequences for many. The decision of the government to remedy this significant flaw is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u227	Mr President! Thank you very much to the government that the idea of the welfare economy is included in the STM content description. I am glad that the messages from the Committee on the Future have finally come through. However, it is regrettable that this is not reflected in the budget there, because the savings made during this term of government, for example, in services for older people and families with children, are certainly not sustainable development, quite the contrary. These savings will lead to increased costs for society in the future, and this budget will not correct this fact either. Just one concrete and very worrying thing is to save the care and care of the elderly, because the situation is indeed unsustainable in many places, as Mrs Juvonen has now rightly pointed out here, among other things. This revision of the quality recommendations for elderly services has been designed to save millions of euros, and this necessarily means the quality of care and care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u228	Madam President! In the speech by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, I am surprised that the situation in the municipalities is being criticised. After all, during this parliamentary term the financial position of the municipalities has improved substantially. During the last parliamentary term, there were dozens of crisis municipalities or such municipalities, at the moment I am not sure how many there are, but I am sure they will fit in with one hand if there are any. In practice, for citizens' services, the municipality is the most important community. After all, public services are police services and employment services, which hopefully people rarely need. [TimoHaraka’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u229	Mr President! One thing that, of course, affects the Finnish budget is the situation of refugees in Europe. This is where Mr Kankaanniemi said about this Turkey agreement between the EU and Turkey that we are going to have to pay billions to Turkey. Of course, that is true, but there are certain conditions for it and it is to the benefit of preventing Turkey from coming to Europe with these asylum seekers. Of course, when it comes to what my argument is that their chairman, Mr Halla-aho, has said that he is against this agreement with Turkey, he has already asked the European Council in spring 2017 a question in which he specifically says that this refugee agreement must be abandoned and even frozen by high-level diplomatic links with Turkey. If such a line really were to take place at EU level and Finland's refugee policy and deal with diplomacy, you can be quite sure that 3 million people would leave Turkey towards Europe. And how would border states such as Croatia and Macedonia operate? They can't take care of these people, so in other words, people would move on and even come all the way to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u230	Mr President! Representative Elo, I would not go so far as to advise the Finns about making asylum policy, because you yourself have not pushed the 80 points in the government to the finish line, which was agreed at the beginning of the reign when the Finns of Finland were still responsible there. Mr President! I will return to Mr Viitanen's speech because it was so much hand-washing about the work of the Social Democrats. In ancient times I watched your electoral programs during the four parliamentary years and found that each program had a strong declaration of how you care for pensioners, the employed, the unemployed and all the people between earth and heaven. However, during the last parliamentary term, you remember well, even you yourself went to vote against your own proposals before the elections. You were not able to keep the promises you made at the time, and I do not think you will be able to keep them in the future. But as far as the government is concerned, it is true that more than 100,000 jobs have been created. But the same coalition was in the government during the last parliamentary term when it lost over 100,000 jobs, so those jobs do not necessarily come from the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u231	Madam President! From the local government economy you can look at a ten-year period and find that the central government share was 34 per cent for municipal services, now it is 24. In ten years, 10% of the central government shares have fallen, and next year more will fall because of the fact that there are index freezes; because the transfer of tasks, which is thought to be hundreds of millions of savings, will not be realised; because there has been a kiky, which has not been compensated by the municipalities in this case. We have many reasons, which will amount to almost 300 million minuses for next year. For this reason, municipalities have done all the good in order to ensure that the local government finances are in order at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u232	Madam President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, you raised some very important points in your speech, and it is true that there is not enough money, there is not enough money for what again, Mr Kauma, you listed what is good things are being done. Well, the jobs. Mr Hokkonen, you mentioned the need to create jobs. We have a contradictory view, because you believe that reducing the protection against dismissal will bring jobs, but that is not the case. It's a weakening of a human being. Super and Tehy are starting the shift ban on September 26th, and it's so that they'll see where the nurse can be found. Are you really going to put an end to this weakening of the protection against dismissal? This is a really, really gross and wrong move, and it certainly does not make these jobs. I would also like to highlight these weakenings in the care of the elderly and the fact that the Finns of Peru adhered firmly to the fact that the nurseship is not weakened. Minister Petteri Orpo, do you promise that it will not be done in the future? It was just this group,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u233	Madam President! In this matter of protection against dismissal, you should remember a fact. It is designed specifically for these small enterprises which are engaged in production and which specifically need the workforce when the market takes place and exports are being carried out and so on. It does not apply to, for example, the municipality or state power as an employer, not a bit, but to people in social welfare and health care. Perhaps those companies that have set up private companies may touch a few people. But the fact of the matter, too, is that small companies have a much greater risk of false recruitment than a large company, and it is possible to get a person to do the kind of job he likes by changing compartments. In a small company, say a metal company that works hard, such as snowlinks are piled up and placed on the market at a good price, false recruitment can even be fatal. That is what this is all about, and there is no job security to be dismantled. That you should stick to the facts when making claims.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u234	Mr President! I myself have been an entrepreneur for over 30 years, and I have recently met quite a lot of small entrepreneurs who have been quite offended by the fact that the government's message to them has been, as it were, that they would like to lay off people and just look forward to the relief of how to get rid of them. Every small entrepreneur I know is trying to secure people's jobs even when the company's doing so badly that there's really no reason for it. I know many who have ruined themselves and their company for the simple reason that they have not let people go, so this medicine provided by the government is completely wrong and even offensive. Then I am also surprised at Mr Hoskosen's logic in that he felt that the previous government had done terrible things on its own and that the present government itself has done a great deal of improvement. In the next speech, however, he remembered the existence of a global economy which has some significance in the fact that if the EU is in recession, Finland will be in recession if the EU rises, and Finland will sooner or later fail. You'll have to notice that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u235	President! Quite right things Mr Kontula pointed out that how much the weakening of the various benefits and other social security issues affect, what the overall impact of those who can often only be seen in decades' time. I myself belong to the age group that was completed before the recession in the early 1990s, with good luck a little earlier than many of my peers, and yes I can say that the recession in the 1990s has been a generation story of my generation as it has been for many younger people who lived their teens, for example, and many essential services were cut. But this budget for next year will not be resolved. The government has good little beginnings. On the other hand, there can be a debate when there are so many similar phenomena across Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u236	Mr President! Mr Niikko said that these 120 000 jobs, which have been created, are only what was lost in the last period, but I would now remind Mr Niikko that Finland is involved in the international economy and that we are highly dependent on exports and that, therefore, the economic cycle also affects us. And you can say that government policy has not been bad, at least because we have got those jobs and a little more back. Now, of course, it must be remembered that when the economic forecasts for next year look slightly weaker than for this year, the government has made a very cautious budget for the appropriations so that, last year, when they have been 500 million more than this year, it has already been possible to anticipate that the economy may not develop so well. And I would also say to Mrs Haraka: you have obviously listened to different entrepreneurs than I have, because many are very pleased that we are now given the opportunity to lay off those workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u237	Mr President! This has now come directly from Mr Kauma, this argument as to why the government is driving this. Indeed, I have not heard from any entrepreneur the talk that they want to get rid of their employees and that it would be too difficult now. But you have such an image, and that is quite clear, we have certainly sensed that this is the government's idea of entrepreneurship, and that concept is sad and black. The Finnish entrepreneur wants to take care of the employees until the end and make sure that everyone is well off. Besides, in your own speeches, you always talk about staff being a resource. You always talk about how everyone's interests are shared, but now that you finally got to say what's really going on in your mind, you exposed what's your world view, and I'm proud to say that I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u238	President! Representative Kauma: Of course, we all know that only companies alone create jobs, stability, livelihoods and success among people, and in that sense we must give companies the opportunity to employ and hold on to those workers. I also understand the starting point for this idea that companies with small numbers of staff, the misreports that were previously heard here in Mr Hoskose's speech or elsewhere, can become so expensive that the whole company will fall into it. We must also try to deal with these experiences in the right light. But the fact is that, during the last parliamentary term, your party's coalition was also a government party and a Prime Minister's party, and then we lost 100,000 jobs. So the fact is that it is the economic cycle that created the jobs. Of course, the government also has a role to play in making it easier for entrepreneurs to take on and succeed in their business story. And in this context, I would remind you again of the question of how companies that do not receive workers can be helped to get that workforce.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u239	Madam President! Thank you first of all for this economic situation and for the goals that the government has achieved, thank you for that. But I would have asked the Minister about this situation in rural areas now: Farmers and people living there are in a very difficult situation. It has been a couple of years and we still have cuts to agricultural subsidies through the EU. We have the cleanest products in the world — probably because of our parallel, where we live — but the cultivation and production of products here cost far more than that in Central Europe, which will, however, become the rules for us. Is the government now really going to intervene at national level — not by just a few ten million — in the real plight of the countryside and the people living there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u240	Madam President! It is worth remembering when you talk about public finances, what the real situation has been when you have started. Indeed, when this government started, many people said that the unemployment situation was never going to improve. Now we know. So politics has effectiveness. During the last parliamentary term — and we remember it vividly — central government debt, municipal debt, the sale of state assets and the state’s treasury deficit weakened by EUR 38 billion and became 100,000 unemployed. The Demars are always screaming for the right time to act. Well, at least during the last term of government, you had the wrong papers at the wrong time, and now it feels as the economy is developing, that again you have the wrong papers in hand, when you are in the opposition and you have not been able to influence this issue. I look forward to the next parliamentary term, which will then be the kind of paper we will find. Is it the right time to have the wrong papers or is it the wrong time to have the right papers? However, I would like you to be clear about that number, because if you do not know which map runs in the woods in the navigational games, there is a risk of getting lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u241	Madam President! Congressman Hoskonen, we have a map in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u244	Mr President! I find it a little strange in this debate to note and note that here too the representatives of the centre and of the blues are so eager to accept this sort of policy of the present government, which we know very well is written by the coalition and led by the orchestra. For example, we can see from today's observation, which we have been very surprised by here in the Social Democrats, that as a result of this government budget, one third of people are losing their income and, however it may be,'surprising,surprising', the third part is the roots of the lowest-income thirds and then the highest-incomesuppliers. How on earth do representatives of the city centre who think they have some kind of embryo tradition still praise that everything is very great and great? I guess it's nice to blame the old ones, but sometimes you could look a little at your own nest. I wish very much, President,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u245	Mr President! It can only be said to Mr Viitan that every time the economy is doing well, it is not the government's fault, but when it is going badly, then it is the government's fault, so this is the logic that the opposition always has. But I agree with Mr Haraka about the attitude of small Finnish entrepreneurs. Their attitude is fine. But what I have received from them is that we would like to have the means to reduce the risk of recruiting a small entrepreneur. And that is what the government here has gone for, what the Blue Minister for Labour is looking for. Now let us see what we can learn from this consultation. However, it must be made clear that if someone’s starting point is that nothing is good enough except that this presentation is withdrawn, it will not happen. I do not particularly want to go with my esteemed representative, Mr Niiko, but I do believe that this Turkey agreement is vital for Finland too, as regards asylum policy, and also the opening of the embassy in Iraq, as set out in this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u246	Madam President! Recruitment has been raised here, and I believe that instead of reducing the protection against dismissal, resources should be allocated to better recruitment. The recruiter is the first person to take his employee into the company. A small Finnish entrepreneur has earned his worth. Especially in small towns, and when we leave the capital region, the number of small businesses is huge. And it will, as it were, remain between the ears of the entrepreneur when it is said that this will enable it to be easier to call a person off — but it is often about people and friends and acquaintances. So in that sense I ask that you continue to consider this law and I do not believe that it will pass through this Parliament. I believe that there will be constitutional problems. It is a step towards reducing the protection of large companies from dismissal in the future, and then we can also wipe the table in the TES.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u247	Mr President! I am surprised by the traditional style of Mr Harakka, who is deliberately misunderstanding what is being said here on the other side, and I refer here to the possibility for companies with fewer than 20 employees to terminate a person on a personal basis. If, Mr Harakka, you would sometimes genuinely speak with these entrepreneurs, you would know that every entrepreneur wants to keep the workers he has and who really have a positive impact on the working environment and on the performance of the work. In the sense that such a law now comes and is possible, it is also good for the working community, because it does not burden other workers when everyone does their own work in accordance with instructions and regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u248	Mr Haraka will also respond, but first Mrs Korhonen, Mr Torsti, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Mr Kontula and Mr Tanus, then Mr Harakka, and then the Minister will reply. — Representative Korhonen — Yaha, not present. Congressman Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u249	Mr President! We appreciate the presence of the Minister for Finance, and I will return to this debate on knowledge and education. It is great that the Minister of Finance has noticed the work of the SDP's Knowledge Path 2030, which really assumes that education policy must be long-term. We need a return to such an educational and educational radical society, some kind of restoration of the honor of science and education. Last week, when Helsingin Sanomat organised an economic defence course for us MPs, and it challenged us to choose just one reform, I said there that I would choose from this Osaamis path a reform that can be implemented immediately and whose effectiveness seems very obvious, and that now just happened to be the extension of compulsory education to second grade. So it is not a single law, but rather a rather large reform of education policy in this country, which partly compares with primary school, precisely that, when nine years were enough at the time, it is no longer enough. We need a 12-year training path like this, and that's why we're going to bring it out for so long.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u250	Mr President! Here a moment ago we talked about reading the map, and the ability to read the map also involves looking a little further into the future. That is why the SDP talks so much about future investments. For future investment thinking means that, now that we are investing in something that can be thought to be saved in the future, this investment pays off, and this is the idea of the welfare economy. On the contrary: if you save on the wrong things, you bring costs into the future, and this applies both to municipalities and to society as a whole. Mr Kivelä mentioned the recession in the early 1990s earlier in his speech. It is true that the savings of this recession were paid for decades and perhaps still paid. This is the same mistake that is taking place, which means that we are going to have a great deal of cost for the coming decades when, for example, children have been spared.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u251	Mr President! I would like to correct the misunderstanding which has been repeated both in this Chamber and in the ministerial box that our problems with social security are linked to the traps of incentives in euro. That is not the case. In principle, it is very unusual that someone in Finland should not take a job because social security is doing better. This is the case for some single parents in some situations where a person who receives earnings-related benefits would take on low-wage jobs and in some of the temporary work related to income support. But the real incentive trap is linked to social security bureaucracy and its difficulty, namely that a short job is a risk that you will have nothing in your hand after that. This applies precisely to those entry areas which could then be employed for a longer time. The problem here is that almost all parties are calling for social security to be maintained for consideration, even though this bureaucracy trap cannot be dismantled without relaxing the consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u252	Congressman Tanus, gone. — Mr Harakka, and then Mr Mäkelä and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u253	Mr President! I don't know if there's a representative. Kauma has never been an entrepreneur, but in any case it is pointless for him to come and teach us small entrepreneurs that employment is not an honour for the entrepreneur. Social Democrats have positive ways of promoting the cause and employment of small businesses. We have long been proposing a reduction in the remuneration of the first external worker, we have been proposing an increase in the VAT threshold and, more broadly, concrete support for the export efforts of SMEs and, of course, an increase in investment in innovation and research, and I agree with the praises given in this budget for the fact that some of these cuts have now been re-established. I hope so, and I believe this is where the magazine has turned and Finland returns and wants to become a superpower of knowledge and learning. The SDP presents a learning billion, which shows that Finland is able to cope with knowledge, and Finland is not able to cope with the weakening of working conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u254	Mr President! As the day goes by, listening to the debate and the cry of the Green Left, it has always been said that this is what the opposition is saying. It is not the voice of the opposition as a whole, the green left is being shouted out. The Finns are also in the opposition, and we are putting forward an alternative to everything we criticise, and that option is very constructive. This country will not be built by confrontation. As long as we put the job provider and the worker together, a country as small as this will not survive. If someone outside heard this conversation, they'd probably laugh. I am surprised at these speeches when the first and probably last year of growth in the boom is taking on 1.5 billion more debts. This is what we need to understand. Without transfers abroad and the cost of immigration, our budget would already be in excess of EUR 0.5 billion. There is a limited amount of money, and that money must be used for the benefit of Finns. There's got to be a line somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u255	Then the Minister will answer for five minutes, and then we will go on the list of speakers for at least a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u256	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for a good debate and sparring. A few things — start with this growth of the economy in the world, in Europe, in Finland. Economic growth in the world has been very strong for years and in the euro area for some years. If, during this reign, economic growth in Finland depended only on this government, or on the growth of the world, on the growth of the euro area, then why should it not have started already during the last term of government? I dare say that decisions have been taken both in the last government and in this government that have made it possible for its growth to come to Finland too, to seize it. One of the biggest ones is — thanks to the Social Democrats — a good decision to make a bold reduction in corporate tax, which has undoubtedly brought investment and jobs to Finland and has improved our competitiveness. It's an excellent decision. Thank you for that. For that social security, you could talk about it for a long time. I believe Mr Kontula is right that the question of a trap of incentives is not just a question of income. It has a very big impact on bureaucracy, but I am sure that there will be such high marginal tax situations where taking work together with bureaucracy will create a situation in its entirety that is simply not meaningful. I believe that the social security system should be reformed, but if we want to achieve a high level of employment at the same time, which I believe is the security of the welfare society, and a strong basic security, which is the Finnish consensus — there is no one breaking the strong basic security — then I do not think it will be possible, and not even in the opinion of more economists, without consideration. That's why I'm in favour of basic security for consideration. Then a few comments on agriculture, Mr Hakkarainen asked about it. It's really a serious place. It is known what the situation is in our countryside at the moment. That is why, even in a tight frame of work, we have now taken these rapid steps, 30 million in the form of an amending budget. I hope that Minister Leppä will find a good way to quickly target those farms that are in the greatest difficulty. There is also a need for flexibility in the European Union. But in the long term, two things need to be done: in the EU financial framework for the next seven years, an adequate level of aid and a sensible system, but we also need a market. And the domestic market is not enough, even if it works better: we need a world market, because there is a long-term opportunity for Finnish products to obtain the kind of price they can use. Congressman Niikko has asked me about getting a job. In my opinion, the big, domestic potential is the 300,000 unemployed we have. Any way you can get in there. And now, for example, in the supplementary budget — in the spring of this draft budget and hopefully in the forthcoming amending budget, tens of millions will once again be put into the labour market, specifically for young people and those who do not have a training basis, but also for those who have already been trained, who simply need to update their skills. We train coders and even implement this kind of precision, I think these are the right policy options for this situation. And finally, for the rest of this. I think all that matters now is that we can do two things at the same time: To keep this public finances in balance, it still requires a foot on the brakes, it is no longer necessary to stand on two feet as it was at the beginning of the reign, but we are still in debt, we must keep the brakes there. At the same time, however, we must be able to press on to this private economy, the economy, to increase productivity in our public sector, which makes us a better, stronger society. For we are also able to guarantee our ability to pay for welfare services, to deliver the service promise, to deliver the pension promise, and that is the only way we can do this. This is perhaps the idea of the difference between the last government base — although the situation was very, very difficult — and we pressed the brakes on both sides at the same time, as well as on public spending, severe cuts, but then we also had to make drastic cuts, and we did on the government base, tax evasions, extortions, which at the same time congested the private economy, and then we had to cut it, so it was not a working equation. That's why I think it's better to press the brakes and the gas at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u259	Then let's go on the list for a while. — Congressman Kosonen, please! — While Kosonen is preparing, I will give you my greetings from the conference in Inari. There were the Arctic parliamentarians and the great representation of our own parliamentarians, and they had held such a fine meeting, it was quite unparalleled that I was very proud to go there. Say hello to all of you for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u260	Madam President! Ms Katri, Member of the European Parliament I'm sure my girdle worked very well there in Inari, so I've heard about it. The story of Finland is a success story, and at the heart of its story is that everything has always been involved, and so on. As Mr Heikkinen pointed out in the debate, the best social policy is to improve employment. During this reign, more than 115,000 homes have really enjoyed getting a job. Work brings livelihood, security, meaning and joy to everyday life. This significant change is also essential if we are to finance the continuation of our success story so that Finland will be even more integrated in the future. Mr President! How will the government take care of integrity in its budget for the coming year? For example, the taxation of low-income pensioners, families, the unemployed and employees will be reduced. It has been argued here that the government's tax policy favours high incomes. That is not true. The taxation of low incomes has been reduced most. The lowest daily allowance will rise next year by EUR 80 per month. These include, for example, maternity, paternity and parental allowances. This is the first time this has happened since the Old Government. The guarantee pension will be increased. Secondary low-income students will receive a material supplement. Until now, non-ownership spouses of entrepreneurs have been linked to the enterprises of their spouses in such a way that unemployment benefits have not been received in the event of unemployment. Now this injustice is finally being corrected and the spouses become employees, whom they have so far been. There is a strong investment in the daily life of the family: EUR 25 million will be added to the home help in the municipalities. When we talk about value choices, here I see strongly the choices made for the sake of a whole Finland. Mr President! In order to continue to ensure our integrity, growth must continue. Hundreds of vacancies in different parts of Finland are proving to be the challenge of growth, for which no factors can be found. To this and to the shortage of labour, the government responds with conversion and further training. Finland's growth must not be jeopardised by the fact that there are no contributors to open jobs. I am also pleased that an increase of EUR 120 million was made in the budget for research and innovation. We have prepared a road map with a wide range of experts to tackle the plastic challenge, seeking ways to reduce, avoid, recycle and replace plastic. Government research and innovation investments are also available to address the plastic challenge. My chairman's work on the plastic road map can, as one of the actions, start the growth engines pursued by the opposition. Road map work is the first national plastic road map in the world. This is a good follow-up, Minister. For the road map work of the circular economy initiated by Tiilikainen. In the circular economy, there is talk of large entities in both plastic and other materials, including the fight against climate change that the opposition is calling for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u263	Mr President! The most important part of preparing for next year's budget is that the good rate of employment development should also be maintained next year. In this parliamentary term, 120,000 new jobs have already been created and the employment rate has reached 72 %, which was originally the objective. That is good, but not enough, and the target must be set even higher in the coming years. This is helped by the fact that work must always be made more profitable than staying at home. In other areas, there have also been wise investments. Finland has long been one of the leading innovation countries, but we are lagging behind in the commercialisation and export of products to the world. Fortunately, attention has now been paid to this, and a level increase of almost EUR 70 million is now being made, for example, for Business Finland's assistance mandate. For a long time, I have spoken in favour of a bolder approach to marketing and commercialisation in Finland. Where ideas may be sold elsewhere before any finished product still exists, time will be spent in Finland to refine the technical details, even if not even the first customer is in sight. This is partly due to the fact that the value of commercialisation is not understood, but also to the lack of funding for commercialisation. Fortunately, that too is about to change. In Finland in particular, exports of small and medium-sized enterprises have not been sufficient, but the measures decided in the budget line aim at doubling exports of SMEs by 2020 at least one step closer. I am also pleased that an additional EUR 6 million will be allocated to research at university level in health care. Today’s study is tomorrow’s treatment, as I heard last week when I visited the New Children’s Hospital. Mr President! There are also a number of important points that are finally being made in the area of penal policy. The penalties for sexual offences against children will be tightened and the penalties for repeat offenders will be tightened. In addition to conditional imprisonment, supervision is also provided for offenders 21 years of age or older, which also makes conditional prison sentences more effective. Of course, the hardening of sentences is not an absolute value, but in the case of certain crimes, too lax sentences have led to a situation in which punishments are not fair in relation to the suffering suffered by the victims of the crimes. It is great to see concrete measures in the area that almost all parties have been talking about. The economic framework has also addressed acutely increasing over-indebtedness problems. The legal aid offices will receive EUR 12.7 million in financial and debt counselling, with an increase of EUR 3 million to the current level of funding. In 2017, approximately half a million Finns became customers of the enforcement, so the investments will be more than necessary. Mr President! Making new jobs possible is the most important thing for next year. What is also important is that the government has paid attention to improving the position of entrepreneurs, and in particular I would like to thank the government for the fact that in the future the position of the entrepreneur's spouse, who does not own the company, will improve as he moves into the unemployment benefit of the employee. But making new jobs possible also requires new and bold openings, including those not everyone likes. For example, I believe that the government is planning to facilitate redundancies in companies employing less than 20 people. This could well be called a law aimed not only at improving employment but also at improving the atmosphere of working communities. Instead, I wouldn't call it a denunciation law. It is risky to hire a new person, especially in a small company, if he does not prove to be what he appeared to be in a job interview or even during a probationary period. I hope that the government, under pressure from the opposition and the trade union movement, will not abandon this project but will implement this reform. It is important that the company retains the opportunity to terminate a person who, for example, does not comply with the regulations and instructions and thus affects the atmosphere of the whole working community and hence the results and also the jobs of others who work there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u264	Mr President! There were good debates today, but one thing, of course, was a bit of a wink, and that is that when the opposition is debated and ideas are brought in, then very easily the government parties will be brought in to answer that this is not the way to talk, that is to say, just praise. It's kind of like the culture of making your mind feel bad what it is these days. But we'd rather get those ideas. I mean, it would be kind of boring for us to just sit here and brag about each other, that you're great. Then we could go home right now. I'm sure one representative would be enough. But I would really like to talk about the fact that, when we talk about the whole, we are going to bring in a little different perspectives in the alternative budget and we are going to go in a different way to build this budget and make such suggestions that they are over the parliamentary term. Of course, we have this national interest that we want to think about, that is to say, this cake would be distributed primarily to these own destinations. And of course, let's try to grow that pot. We think of it as a matter for the Finns that we MPs are here primarily as a lobbying machine for Finns. That does not mean that we are not involved in international and international development. We trade with others and live together, but our common tax money is primarily intended for our own well-being. There was some talk of that tax package. I would like to remind you that in this proposal the government was now making tax reductions of some 130 million for people on low and medium incomes, which is a really great thing, and we thought in the Finns of Peru first that it was great, but then, at the same information conference on the budget debate, it became clear that certain equal taxes are being increased. In other words, it will be fixed on the one hand: for example, heating costs will rise and housing costs will rise. So, 130 million will be taken with one hand. If you think of an ordinary person, there are no so - called harmful taxes or green taxes for him, but they are taxes for him. What, then, is left in the hands of tax cuts and, for example, housing costs? It's a plus minus zero. You can't make too much fun of it. Then there has also been a lot of talk here about the state of the environment and climate change. It is a serious matter, this is how the Finns think, but yet we assume that the survival of Finnish industry in Finland is an ecological act. Something tells me that it is a good thing not to shut down factories here when you have to make all production work at such a high speed with bioenergy, for example, and it is thought that coal is simply being replaced. But it is not cheap, and it must be done over a long period of time, and the living conditions of those companies must be safeguarded. It is not possible to think like this that we are simply making excessive regulations here, and then we find that, for God's sakes, we have all the industry and jobs left. It must be understood that if industry moves to China or India, for example, then it may not care so much about these environmental issues, and yet this climate change and its fight against it is a global issue. This is the kind of WHO study that put in my eyes from 2017, and according to its research, Finland has the best outdoor air quality in the world, so surely we here have done something right. Here, too, it is good to remember that when the EU shares this burden with everyone, Finland does not do its share and should not do its share, but its share, and we have already done quite well. There's always more to do, but we don't want to cut our own leg. Finally, since I did not get the answer from Minister Orpo: He said that he did not want to talk about these asylum costs, and I do not really wonder about that. Looking at that budget book, the total reception costs for 2017-2019 are about 700 million and integration costs 700 million. According to my math, it's $1.4 billion, which means it's as much as we owe this year. Yes, these are quite significant sums, and these should actually be discussed here and not just postponed the debate. And when compared to, for example, investing in a guarantee pension — a fine thing — 10 million were put into it in order to obtain an increase of EUR 9 per month. There would be quite a lot more nine euros if you thought that these costs would be less and the EU would do its job, and Finland too could consider and consider these border controls, but the will is lacking. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u265	Madam President! During this period, the government's cutter has hit almost everything that is important to us, such as early childhood education, education, social security, development cooperation and nature conservation. Of course, as the elections approach, the speeches have softened, but the line still does not seem to have turned. We believe that this final draft budget for the parliamentary term is a band-aid budget. Small patches, however, are a bit of a comfort if they do not even place a fraction of what has been done in the past. For example, in the fight against poverty and different assessments, a tenth of what has been taken away is offered as a patch. In order to ease the difficult situation in vocational education and training, the skinny patch is worth more than EUR 30 million, after almost EUR 200 million has been taken away. I am particularly concerned about the fight against climate change. This has been raised in a number of parties, as we have heard today, but actions — we still need faster action. In controlling climate change, a larger gear must be set in motion, and the exceptional heats of the past summer, forest fires, blue algae deposits, all of them are warning signs that we must take seriously. The time has come to respond to climate change. Finland's environmental and climate policy must be ambitious at world level. We must assume our responsibility for the environment and the future. However, the recent follow-up report of the UN Convention on Climate Change revealed alarming news. The Government’s decision to increase forest felling is to thwart most of Finland’s efforts to combat climate change. At a time when Finland should do everything in its power to reduce emissions, we find ourselves in a situation where our measures are, as it were, incompatible with each other and threaten our climate objectives. This is a dangerous direction. As we well remember, environmentally harmful subsidies, as well as other harmful business subsidies, have not been dared to touch. On the contrary, they are even being increased. In his speech, the Minister of Finance, Orpo, lumped all the so-called harmful taxes into a single lump sum. But I dare to guess that the tobacco tax, for example, does not yet combat climate change; we also need more environmentally-enlightened taxation. Similarly, preparedness and mitigation of climate change are no longer dependent on technology, for example. It is a question of political will and the ability to make decisions. Mr President! Now, a few words about education. During this term of government, students and education have been cut by EUR 1 billion, almost, and students have been cut more than any other group of people. Education cuts have gone through the whole of society from early childhood education to higher education and research. This is not yet being replaced by a single additional educational material patch. According to the national Amisbarometri, one in five students have to compromise their spending because of their studies and one in ten experience ongoing problems in financial matters. Unfortunately, the government's promise of education in the run-up to the last election has been betrayed at all levels. Children’s subjective right to early childhood education is limited and groups are threatening to swell. Inequality in municipalities and between municipalities is increasing. In turn, cuts in vocational education have reduced local education and increased interruptions of studies. An important and good reform of vocational education and training as such is threatening to fail. The message from the airport is very alarming. According to the Finnish National Board of Education survey, the already excessive number of drop-outs in vocational education has risen by nearly 3 percentage points in a couple of years. I believe that the direction of education policy needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u266	Madam President! There has been a rather intense debate in this Chamber today on the budget for next year, and it is of course important that different views are heard in this Chamber and that everyone should express their views and opinions. Although I have to admit that sometimes the debate seems to be moving a little bit on the sidelines, not all the speeches are always directly related to the budget book, the debate has started. As the Chairman of the Left Alliance, Li Andersson, pointed out in his group speech, the Sipilä Government has cut out all the livelihoods and basic security of the most vulnerable Finns, such as pensioners, the unemployed and students. The Sipilä government has pursued a strong fiscal policy that is unequal and that has given to those who already have it and has taken it from those who do not have it at all. During the Sipilä Government, income differences in Finland have increased. According to a survey commissioned from the Parliamentary Information Service, the disposable income of the four lowest decile incomes has decreased and the income of the six highest decile incomes has increased in 2015-2018. In spite of this, index cuts in benefits are not being cancelled. This can be seen in a cold way in the purse of the poorest Finnish citizen. The continuation of index cuts is an ideological choice for the Sipilä government in a situation where the economic situation has improved. Mr President! The government's generation policy is untenable. The government disciplines both young and old. Pensioners are not one mass, but in the part where they live in poverty they enjoy the other half of the lavish pension benefits. The apparent increase in the guarantee pension does not help when national pension index-linked benefits have been cut and index increases have been frozen. These cuts hit a large number of low-income pensioners. In addition, there is a risk of poverty as more and more money is being spent on housing and health services. The other side of generation policy is cuts in education. Vocational secondary education has been cut by EUR 190 million during this term of government. At the same time, vocational training reform has been implemented. The interaction between reform and surgery is unsustainable. It should now be ensured that individualisation of the educational path is genuinely possible, and this requires contact time between the student and the teacher. This is gonna cost you money. The OAJ estimates that the amount required is approximately EUR 30 million. Correcting the financing of vocational education and training also seems to be the responsibility of the next government. Mr President! It is very sad and, in part, also shameful that in Finland, where things are really very well measured, there are still bread lines and bread queues are only growing and the development of inequality continues. The fact that there are about 100,000 children living in poverty cannot be right at a time when, however, we can say that we are richer than ever before. The distribution of income is distorted and those who are poor are becoming even poorer. Unfortunately, this budget will not cancel, for example, these index freezes, even though employment has improved and the economic situation this year has improved considerably better than in the past. I would have liked to have seen relief in this budget book for the lives of the most vulnerable people. First the axe has been cut and now small patches are made with a Band-Aid, but it is not enough. At the same time, these tax reductions are aimed at us on good income. This is likely to create that inequality and also disunity, and people are very dissatisfied with this kind of policy. This is a completely ideological income distribution policy and tax policy. Hopefully, there will still be changes to this budget book together, so that next year Finns will not have to pick up daily bread from bread lines, be on handouts, and that anyone who needs can afford the medicines that keep him alive and heal him. Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u267	Irade fru talman, Madam President! The central government budget always estimates the lump sum to be paid to Åland annually. The sum of wood is the share of the State taxes paid, which Åland will be able to return to finance the public service, which is provided by Åland itself in accordance with the Self-Government Act. Ålanders pay state taxes on the same basis as other Finns. Ålanders are very good taxpayers for the state, as unemployment is 3.3 per cent in Åland and the employment rate is nearly 82 per cent. The amount of wood used is used to finance the public service in Åland in the areas of responsibility under the Self-Government Act. For example, roads, archipelago transport, industrial policy, police and culture are financed in Åland solely by lump sums, not by other items in the state budget. In addition, Åland and its municipalities will not receive state subsidies to maintain medical care and schools, but will be financed by a lump sum coming to the province, which will end up in the municipalities through the provincial system. This amount is not a financial contribution but a repayment of part of the taxes which: Åland has paid into the treasury of the Ministry of Finance and the lump sum must cover the areas of activity managed by the autonomous Åland Islands in the Åland Islands instead of the State. The amount of wood is estimated to increase by EUR 5.3 million in 2019, as all revenue from the state will increase due to a better economic situation. It is very gratifying that the economy is improving and the government deserves praise for the efforts that have been made to reduce unemployment and improve the economy. Mr President! While it is of course good that Åland's lump sum increases as a result of our country's better economy, it is fundamental to say that it does not grow as fast as it should to finance self-government. This is because there is a structural problem with the lump sum. Könnösum does not take into account the population growth in Åland. The lump sum paid to Åland amounts to 0.45% and does not take into account population growth or the amount of taxes Åland pays to the Treasury, except for certain direct taxes. Åland is an area where the population is growing rapidly. The population growth in Åland was the second fastest in the whole country last year. Only Uusimaa grows faster per capita than Åland. However, the responsibility for organising public services for every person moving to Åland also arises according to the Constitution. This means costs without automatically increasing revenue. As a result, Åland is impoverished and impoverished as Åland has grown and grown per capita faster than the country as a whole. Under the current system, Åland will automatically receive the same lump sum, regardless of whether the population is 100 persons or 100,000 persons. Regardless of the size of the population, the amount of wood is 0.45% of the total revenue of the state, reflecting the structural problem of the system. This is therefore a major problem for Åland, which wants to continue growing. Mr President! 0.05% may not sound that large, but if the whole demographic change were taken into account, it would be more than EUR 20 million a year. It is a great deal for Åland. On the Åland side, it has not been required that the entire population change affect the level of the lump sum, as the state also performs tasks in the Åland Islands, such as seaguarding, courts and the Foreign Service. However, a reasonable level increase of around EUR 15 million per year is needed to cover the financing needs of self-government. If the rate of unemployment in Åland were not as low as it is today, 3.3 per cent, The public finances of Åland would be in a major crisis. This shows in every way the need for change. It is not a matter of getting more money than others, but of having equal opportunities for development in Åland than in everyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u268	Madam President! It is a great thing for the government to achieve the employment objective. We all want to safeguard growth now, and some of us believe that there is room for division, some have bigger hopes, some have slightly smaller hopes and proposals. Mr President! n remember that although the Finnish economy has recently grown and the employment rate has improved, it will not be sufficient for years to come. Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Finance, among others Hetemäki has said that the target for the employment rate in 2030 should be 80%, compared to 72% next year. Mr President! Finland’s birth rate is extremely worrying. Low birth rates also have a significant impact on the sustainability gap. Last year Finns received record children as the decline trend continued for seven years in a row. In the longer term, the decline in the birth rate will affect the financial base of our welfare society and also the sustainability gap. Throughout the parliamentary term, Christian Democrats have defended the status of families with children. The well-being of society relies on the well-being of families. When families are supported, society as a whole is best placed to succeed. That's why it matters if families feel that they have the resources to run their daily lives. It is high time that the government put families with children at the centre of politics, because they do a precious job there. Mr President! There are incentive problems in Finnish social security. In addition, Finnish social security is difficult to understand. Each government has increased and reduced benefits, changed and reformulated components of support, tied up indices and frozen indices according to the current economic situation, election promises and citizen feedback. In addition to direct subsidies, the whole is controlled by tax deductions. Tax deductions will be increased and the gaps that they fill will be covered by raising taxes. Two out of three Finns of working age receive social support when child allowances and child support are not taken into account. Every Finn has at least once been directly financially supported by society, such as child supplements. Applying for subsidies and granting benefits constitute a rather bureaucratic process for society. The Christian Democrats propose a new model that would replace the fragmentation of basic security and increase incentives for work. The current support system for people of working age and able to work should provide a clear and simple single support system. Mr President! What good would the reform do? First of all, the incentive traps are decreasing, work becomes profitable. Secondly, unemployment is falling, employment tax rates are falling, it is worthwhile to take out jobs at different levels of pay. Under the current system, it is profitable to find employment mainly at the pre-unemployment wage level. Thirdly, red tape traps will be reduced when the benefits are combined into one. In this way, access to the labour market is not hindered by paper war or administrative barriers and there is no need to run from one door to another. Fourthly, there is no need for a fall in income for the coming months. At the moment, one month's income can prevent several months of aid from being received, and this also constitutes a bad incentive trap. Fifthly, the benefits paid will not be recovered when the income rises. In many cases, the recovery is due to the fact that the customer has not communicated its income in sufficient time. And sixthly, personal job guidance, support and services promote employment. For these reasons, Mr President, we urgently need a social security reform based on KD's encouraging basic security. Finally, Mr President, if you will allow me, a positive point: as Mrs Essayah, President of the KD, mentioned in her group speech, I already took the initiative last autumn to create an investment savings account in Finland. I'm glad the government has woken up to the need for reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u269	Madam President! The budget now under discussion for next year is such that one can say that it guarantees growth, vitality and the conditions for living in Finland as a whole. After many difficult years, Finland will be back on the path of growth, and that is the path that the government wants Finland to keep. The most important achievement of the election period is that Finland will rise. More than 100,000 Finnish homes have enjoyed the new job, and many now have a brighter view of the future than in the past. It is significant that growth is wide-ranging. Positive development has not only depended on some growth centres or the capital region, but has taken place throughout Finland and all its regions. That's what we think downtown. Finland is doing well when it is living with its full strength. Only a united Finland is a strong Finland. However, there are threatening clouds over positive economic development. For example, in my region of Upper Savo, in the area of strong export companies, the skills shortage of companies is an acute and serious problem. Jobs and perpetrators don't meet. At the moment, the technology and construction industries in particular are major. With this problem, we are not alone, but the same situation is also a reality in other regions. According to the Government's draft budget, the shortage of regional experts will be met with a long list of measures, including rapid conversion and continuing training. The Government will also provide funding for projects in sub-regional cities to facilitate the access of skilled professionals to vacancies. These are welcome performances. Positive economic development must be safeguarded. The key is also to ensure access to different levels of education in all regions. They need to be trained where they're needed. I also welcome the proposal to reform the reduction in work housing in such a way that it supports and encourages the move towards work more effectively. The ceiling for the reduction is now being increased to EUR 450. Minister of Economic Affairs Lintilä has taken a stand in the press to extend the allowance to persons living alone. This is a need for open - minded thinking and brings a family concept to this day. Similarly, a single person may also be bound by fixed ties to his/her place of residence, so that it is justified to maintain the actual dwelling. Approximately one-fifth of Finns live alone. In the locality of residence, you can hold on to, for example, elderly people who require care or a child from a remote parent. A skilled workforce must be mobilised, and every effort must be made to achieve this objective. Madam President! It is not enough that Finland is doing well. Finns must also do well. The budget line uses the scarce resources to care for the weakest is the right way. Next year, the livelihood of Finns with lower incomes will be improved in many ways. The taxation of many low-income pensioners, unemployed persons and employees will be reduced. Too many children grow up in a family where the economy is tight and every mobile euro goes into everyday life. This is our common challenge. Family poverty affects the child’s life, adulthood, in many ways. The government decided to support the most vulnerable families in the economy by raising the lowest parental allowance next year to the level of labour market support. This means an increase of EUR 80.50 to the lowest paternity, maternity and parental allowances. The minimum daily allowance is paid in a situation where there has been no work income. There are thousands of these families in Finland. The aim is also to support the ability of families to cope with everyday life by strengthening the home service of families with children by EUR 25 million. There is a huge demand for home service. This will help to shift the focus of family support from addressing problems to early support. As we know, prevention is always more humane and cost-effective. Many of us MEPs are also municipal decision-makers, and we should make sure that the funding provided is spent on what it is intended for. I also very much welcome the educational material for young people from low-income families. School book purchases for young people with low incomes are supported by less than EUR 50 per month, which has a significant impact on everyday spending in many low income families. No one's way of learning must be interrupted because of the cost of teaching materials. Education is the best way to work. In addition to labour market status and income levels, education also has a clear link with health and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u270	At this point, I would like to give one comment to Mrs Parviainen because there was a problem with the clock and she only received 3 minutes, 41 seconds, when she missed 1 minute, 19 seconds. - Please, 1 minute 19 seconds from the location. That's how we're gonna be accurate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u271	Thank you, Mr President, I shall try to be precise. Yes, the technology was a little off, and I thought I'd been talking longer than I was talking about. Mr Heikkinen spoke about equality in education, which is an important objective that we will certainly all share, and mentioned the educational material supplement. I would like to continue by saying that if we really want to promote equality in education, we should go further in promoting the free movement of secondary education and in drawing up steps towards extending compulsory education to secondary education. Many studies to support the benefits of wider compulsory education were also recommended by the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. For example, according to the latest youth barometer, the majority of secondary students and young people not studying would also be prepared to extend compulsory education. Of course, we would also implement free early childhood education and much more. But I think we'll still have time for these debuts later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u272	Then let's go to the list of speakers. I'm not opening the debatt at this point. We'll go to it later. — Representative Wallinheim from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u273	Madam President! We will deal with the last budget for this parliamentary term in a new way in an interesting situation. Unlike in previous years, Finland’s economic growth is at a peak of around 3%. Similarly, the number of employed persons today is higher than ever before. In practice, the 72% employment target set by the government in its programme has been achieved and, despite the expected decline in economic growth over the coming years, the employment rate should be 73% by 2020, as forecast by the VM. Of course, there have been many different factors behind the improved economic situation. The opposition’s speeches generally mention only part of the strong growth of the global economy, which has also spread over recent years to investment products important for our exports. Another equally important aspect, but generally forgotten by the opposition, has been an economic and fiscal policy suited to the current government situation. The adjustment of central government finances without massive tax evasion, the competitiveness pact that cut unit labour costs and the policy of more rational regulation, which has broken down standards, have created room for new and broad-based growth. That is why the government's economic policy can be given an excellent rating at this stage. However, Mr President, this does not mean that the Finnish economy can be managed in the future without any concern. In fact, the opposite is true. Although public finances as a whole are being balanced, central government and local government expenditure still exceed revenue. However, even more alarming is the assessment of the sustainability of Finland’s public finances in the event of the next recession. Due to the lost decade of the economy now experienced, for example, our ability to revive in the next recession is much lower than before the financial crisis that began in 2008. In addition, as a result of the natural ageing of Finns, productivity in our economy will be lower than usual in the coming decades. Therefore, revenue from economic growth in public finances in the coming decades will not be sufficient to finance public services and benefits through the current structure. In calculating terms, therefore, this sustainability gap still stands at around 3% of GDP. Faced with these facts, Madam President, I would like to make the following constructive proposal to each party that is going to the parliamentary elections next spring: Instead of making promises without a roof, barking and misunderstanding of others, we should consider how the longer-term sustainability of the Finnish economy can be improved and what kind of reform policy you would be prepared to pursue, in particular, in the future government, which creates a higher employment rate. I believe that this would be the kind of policy that quite a few Finns who voted in the next election would have high regard for. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to thank the government for the additional efforts made in the field of sport and sport.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u274	President! As a representative of the Government Party, you have to praise the government on your own. In this three-year period, it hasn't been that easy. We are now at the forefront of a more positive future, and it has certainly not been an easy way to achieve this. However, the main reason why I appeal to the government is that no hurlumhei budget has been subjected to this before the elections. However, it has been understood that there are positive signals in the economy and that some efforts can be made. It can be said that the efforts have been in a much more humane direction. Many speakers have already mentioned, for example, the increase in the guarantee pension, the increase in the minimum daily allowance, particularly those which affect the most vulnerable. But really, there are drastic cuts in the back. At the time of the formation of the Board of Directors, I myself was in the Board of Directors' Programme Working Group on Education and Skills, and it was not, you know, pleasant when the economic worm figures were presented and cutback targets and demands were presented. However, the atmosphere in which the budgetary referral debate has taken place today has not been very encouraging. Indeed, there has been much talk of recently: deliberate misunderstanding, bypassing others’ goals, nosaling them, and so on. The representatives of the government parties should have paid more attention to some of the opposition's speeches, and then the other way around: the opposition, which is now very small in number, represented here in the Chamber. [Call for the Cape]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u275	Madam President! This is the budget referral debate and its general discussion section. Perhaps I would have waited in that debate to look at the environment in which we live today in this global world and Finland is trying to survive. There has been a great deal of discussion about the details and praise for the achievements of the government and it is, of course, part of Parliament's debate that this is happening, but very little has been thought about the global, global economy, the European framework and their future prospects and the implications of them for our economy and society. In the United States, President Trump has been in power for less than two years. There is a very strong growth rate of around 4%, as growth in the EU region, for example, is 0.7% at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u278	Madam President! The contributions made by this government's last budget proposal are correct in many places, but we often have a very different view of the magnitudes. To date, however, the government has cut too much on issues that are important to us: education, early childhood education, social security, development cooperation and nature conservation. And this big picture doesn't change now either. I think it is serious that the government does not seem to fully understand the importance and scale of the fight against climate change. Things are being said in the right direction, but fossils are not detachable and emission reductions are not made quickly enough. But now I'm in a burning rush, there's no time for pain. No other policy action with good objectives will matter if we move towards a catastrophic climate crisis. It will revolutionise the whole of society if we do not manage to clearly limit emissions and absorb carbon from the atmosphere by all means. It's not easy, it costs money, and yet it has to be done. If the government were to take the fight against climate change seriously, it would have started, first of all, to reduce large amounts of environmentally harmful and ineffective subsidies. This has not happened. Tax subsidies on fossil energy alone will amount to EUR 1 billion next year. That is three times as much as renewable energy subsidies. Climate policy must be more ambitious. Mr President! Climate change and extreme weather phenomena are also reflected in the agricultural situation. It is right to support those in difficulties today. However, the following years will have to be built into a more sustainable system at both national and EU level. No country can base its food production on crisis and crisis financing on one crisis to another. It is important that the money in the crisis package should now be allocated to farms most in difficulty because of crop damage. I am not convinced that this will happen. In fact, EUR 20 million of the aid will be granted in the form of a refund of energy taxes, increased from 18 C.E. How does this help farmers who have already invested in renewable energy in their production? It would have been wiser to direct aid on the basis of applications to those who have actually lost most. Now this support is not available to progressive farmers, such as biogas farmers. Mr President! The sixth extinction wave of life-forms is on the move, but it has been ignored in the budget book. It is great that the protection of the Baltic Sea will receive more money. A similar wake-up call would be for the protection of biodiversity and carbon sinks, especially forests and swamps. The extensive environmental protection cuts during the government period were slightly adjusted last year. No new investments will be made this year in addition to the Baltic Sea. The Government has also already acknowledged that Finland will not remain in its UN commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. The Baltic Sea and the protection of waters will receive 15 million next year under the water protection enhancement programme. The level of funding of the Southern Finland Forest Protection Programme, or Metso, will remain at the level of the Ministry of the Environment in 18, i.e. EUR 16 million, which will not entirely cover major cuts in the early period. By comparison: next year, the Ministry of the Environment will spend the same amount of money, 16.3 million, on the aftermath of the bankrupt Hitura mine and on the prevention of environmental pollution risks in Kalajoki. This government has roughly halved the money for nature conservation. For example, there is an urgent need for a more robust funding of the programme for the protection of bogs if almost the entire programme for the protection of bogs has not been scrapped. The revenue target of Metsähallitus is only increasing, although the critical message of the scientific community about the protection of forests and carbon sinks has intensified in recent years. Mr President! Unfortunately, this government budget proposal, at least from the point of view of the environment and nature, is not to be commended. The Greens will be drawing up their own balanced option for next year's budget again this year, and value choices will be different.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u279	Värderade Talman! Som alltid innehåller budgetpropositionen också för nästa år både goda saker och satsningar, och sedan finns det förstås saker som vi blev att Sakna. Men det som vi ser som postiva saker är givetvis sysselsättningsläget, och raska regeringen ha ett tack för alla de åtgärder som regeringen vidtagit för att bidra till att sysselsättningsläget har förbättrats. Det är klart att conjunkturerna bestammer det ganska långt. Takten på statens skuldsättning har avtagit. Det som vi kanske är oroliga för är att vi trots ögkonjunktur har ett underskott på över en milard, och det är betyder att när när nasta lågkonjunktur står bakom knuten så kommer vi att ha stora problem med att nå målsättningen att totalt stävja statens skuldsätning. Det vi saknar, och med “vi ”avserjagsvenskariksdagsgrupen,ärdestructurellareformernasominteharskettundenhärperiodenochsominteellerrpåböryats instaårsbudgetproposition. Det gäller reformer som familelidighetsreformen, och sedan skulle vi också ha sett en ambitiosare arbetsmarknadsreform där man också gör satsningar på arbetsmarknaden. Men den absolut största besvikelsen står utbildningssektorn för. Vi hade gärna sett satsningar på alla stadiers grundfinansiering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u280	Mr President! In many ways this budget proposal will inspire confidence in the future. Of course, it must be said that this trust is also due to the fact that the government has done what it has promised so far. All in all, the next government will receive Finland in a significantly better condition than the current government did after the last election. What is essential is that the country's economy as a whole is growing rapidly, exports are drawing back, unemployment is falling, and, best of all, this positive development applies to the whole country, to all its regions. It is clear that reducing unemployment is the best income distribution policy. The higher the employment rate, the stronger the resources we have to prevent inequalities in this society. What is important is that employment, despite many claims, has actually increased. It is therefore indisputable that the reform policy of the Sipilä Government has worked and works. Now we still have to believe that the regional and social reform will go to the end of this parliamentary term. All in all, the Finns have earned it. I am pleased that in this period there have been many attempts to safeguard the ability of municipalities to provide the services people need. This has led to the strongest local government finances in 20 years. The annual income margin of municipalities has increased by as much as EUR 1 billion from the last period. This has made it possible for everyone to have access to statutory services regardless of their place of residence. However, it is clear that, from the point of view of local government finances too, regional and social reform must also be carried out. I understand that, in a situation where the centre-driven government has achieved its main objectives, the budget proposal is correctly weighted. With the recovery of the country's economy, this draft budget has quite rightly now also been able to take into account the lowest incomes with the resources available. As has been said on many occasions, these minimum daily allowances will be significantly increased and the guarantee pension will also be increased. The increase in the basic reduction in municipal taxation, the reduction in labour income and the reduction in the pension income of central and local government taxes also rightly affects the lowest incomes in tax matters. The draft budget therefore responds to the challenge of inequality. A few comments on this draft budget from the point of view of Kainuu, the homeland. It must be noted that this proposal takes into account the labour structure of Kainuu. Kainuu is also affected by a significant shortage of labour as employment improves, so we must do everything possible to gain skilled labour. The draft budget offers opportunities for this. The draft budget offers many new opportunities for employment. Increase the adult education budget, increase the availability of pay support in companies, invest in maintaining working capacity and so on. It is also necessary to see how the additional funding contained in the proposal can be used for conversion and further training. Similarly, the possibility of extending the bridge contract model in south-west Finland to Kainuu is a truly significant opportunity, the options and possibilities of which have already been explored. In other words, the draft budget also responds in many ways to the situation in Kainuu. We are also affected by the condition of the road, including winter maintenance. This proposal includes an additional package of EUR 50 million, specifically targeted at winter maintenance and private roads. Kainuu companies have also been very concerned about the fate of transport aid. This proposal increases the total amount of transport aid to EUR 6 million, but it is clear that it is still necessary to allocate this aid. The draft budget also responds to the challenge of internal security. Among other things, the resources of the field police are increased by targeting 60 police posts in sparsely populated areas, and it is desirable that some of these are also targeted at Kainuu. I have also been able to stress in these budget debates that this country is only living with its full strength, that is, there is no prosperous Finland without the whole of Finland being involved, and, in reverse, this vast country has enormous potential and resources that we can use to boost the national economy and to improve well-being. So, to the very end, very briefly: Public finances are divided into regional economies,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u281	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Many Members have raised ideas here about the kind of elections we will be holding next year. It has been said that they are the climate elections, that they are the employment elections, that they are the immigration elections. In my opinion, they are elections for people and for humanity, and in particular for the low-sound sick, poor and those who, however, fight for it here in our welfare state, Finland. In other words, it is about raising those issues and not only bringing them up, but also bringing them up when we get here in Parliament. Madam President! The government's debt is 1.4 billion, and I find it extremely worrying. The development of debt is worrying, and I ask: when is the debt paid and when will it end? We should consider carefully where we can cut or save so that such large debts or large items of expenditure do not exist in our society. Madam President! I would like to draw attention to this government budget and to these laws, which are linked to the budget, this one law, for which I would like to thank the government and the Minister of Finance, Mr Petteri Orpo. I have been after him for a couple of years and I have reminded you at every turn that remember, Minister, that Finnish garrisons are in a different position with those in crisis management in terms of compensation. I took a bill in the summer of 2017 and thank all the MPs who signed it. There were 116 of them, all in all. Now, at last, this bill has also been put forward as a legislative proposal and is coming to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In other words, in the future, conscripts carrying out statutory military service, women performing voluntary military service and persons carrying out civil service are also entitled to compensation in the event of injury or injury or death during the service, and the next of kin of the victims are also entitled, whether spouse, children or, if not, parents. This, if humanly speaking, is the only right way to act in Finland, the only right way for us to see the Finnish garrison and also his loved ones and then give them the dignity that belongs to them. That is what I particularly thank the government for and said in that speech and I will continue to say it here. But there's always something else you want to fix. As this new bill is now coming into force on 1 January 2019, I consider it extremely important that it should be applied retroactively. I would like to highlight the date of 1 January 2017, which is exactly what came into force with this law on crisis management, which improved the status of peacekeepers, among other things. So I would like this law to be applied retroactively until then. It would also mean that the damage, accidents, possibly deaths would also be covered by compensation. I would like to highlight Raasepori in particular. As sad as it is, without this Raasepor accident, this bill would hardly be in this situation as it is at present. It is very sad that we did not once see, or the government did not see, the forest for the trees, even though it was found that the inequality between the two, those in crisis management and those in military service was great. But it's really good that this is moving forward, and for that, thank you very much. In order to ensure that this is also the case, I have today submitted an initiative for action to the effect that retrospectively that law will come into force and then those who have experienced injury, disability or death in the last year will also be covered by that law. I hope it will be heard and then seen with a great heart. That budget book — I hope that this government’s future budget will not be as weak as the book itself, because I have the pages in my hand and it has already broken into my hands on that table. I would like to raise a few points about older people. Indeed, since 2014, institutional care has been dismantled and home care has been increased, and it is indeed an unsustainable path. It is not sustainable development, it is an unsustainable path, and perhaps it is thought that it is no longer profitable to care for the elderly and the situation of the elderly, and in that way they are, in a way, left hidden there. But as home care has increased, the amount of enhanced service housing has not increased. Old people’s homes and institutional care are becoming a thing of the past, which means that there will be no place for the elderly in the future. This is extremely worrying because not all older people are happily aged there in their own homes, but they also need it to be safe in a place of care, and it should then be possible immediately. I would like to point out here that today we are talking about an increase in employment and employment is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u282	Irade the Talman! När vi talar om nasta års budget talar vi samtidigt om framtiden. När vi fattar beslut om hur vi ska använda våra pengar bestämmer vi samtidigt i vilken riktning vi vi vill styra Finland. Vad vi väljer att satsa på nu har betydelse för hur framtidens Finland ser ut. Framtiden är nyckelordet. Vi ska janka långsiktigt i våra val. För vem bygger vi framtidens Finland? Jo, för commande generator. Därför ska vi satsa på skola och utbildning. Anna-Maja Henriksson tog i sitt tal upp att nasta riksdagsval kommer att vara ett utbildningsval. Någon kan ju säga att det föregående också var det, men är vi ändå. SFP vill satsa på hela scolstigen från daghemmet till högskolestudierna. En av de självklara satsningarna är en subjektiv rätt till dagvård. Nå, det är ju faktiskt ingen satsning, för regeringens inbesparing, där de avskaffade den subjectiktiva rautten — and — den inbesparingen utblev. Men den är fortfarande avskaffad. Irade the Talman! SFP vill också se en mer jämställd framtid i Finland. Därför är det viktigt att nista regering prioriterar att genomföra en famileledighetsreform. Genom reformer som stöder jämställdheten i dag sår vi frön för en mer jämställd framtid och en högre sysselsättningsgrad. SFP anser att en fabileledighetsreform ska få kosta, för endast då innebär det att reformen är tillräckligt omfattande för att skapa den förändring vi behöver. Reformen ska töda ansvarsfördelningen i fabillionna och öka på flexibiliteten så att det är lättare att kombinera fambi och arbete både för mamma och pappa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u283	Madam President! It is important that the debate continues, and there were many good and worthy aspects of this previous speech. This big picture of the economy is that during this parliamentary term the Finnish economy has been translated into strong growth. We have been involved in this growth in Europe. It has been absolutely necessary, because Finland was, if not a bit more, already on the road to Greece. That, of course, is what the strategic government programme has meant. The competitiveness pact has played an important role, and thanks should also be paid to the labour market organisations and, in particular, to the low-paid workers in the public sector. And of course, the climate of trust and action that has been created in Finland has a good meaning. The big picture is that in the state economy, the savings in curding will no longer move forward if we think about the challenges of the future, but we really need reforms in service production, in the labour market, in taxation, in reforms that promote employment, entrepreneurship. Improving the employment rate is the best defence of the welfare society. Therefore, for example, I do not believe that the slopers here in Parliament are on the issue of balancing public finances, and that is what we were warned about this week by Standard & Poor ́s, the route company. The budget for next year could perhaps be described as using the resources available in it to care for the weaker and, on the other hand, to safeguard positive economic development. In my opinion, the budget could be called a budget for care and employment. Next year, the livelihoods of the most low-income Finns will be improved and people's employment opportunities will be increased. The most important achievement of the election period is that Finland will rise strongly. More than 110,000 Finns have received a job, and living in debt will end next year. The most important thing now is to keep all Finns involved, to get even more people to work, away from unemployment. We need such inclusive economic growth more and more, so that the whole of Finland is involved. The situation of Finnish food production, the food economy, was also discussed above. When I come from Varsinais-Suomi, the food province, I see this as very important. Many acute actions have been taken in response to drought, including national measures complementing the 30 million crisis measures and 21.5 million in compensation for natural handicaps in the past and then 20 million in energy tax returns. There are also a whole number of smaller things. We really need a crisis management system to safeguard Finnish food production in the future. We no longer have a system of crop damage when it was abolished during the last parliamentary term. The problem is also that there is no such 141-support for Southern Finland either. It creates problems in moving forward on a regulatory basis when, unfortunately, risks increase as part of climate change. The weather is different, but you can see from the window of the cabin this change in the weather, it is a scientific fact, so in this respect the crisis management system must be created, and it can indeed be created by joint effort, perhaps through the insurance system, the state funding and the food sector's own funding. Mr President! I would regard this line of taxation as a very successful one in this situation. Indeed, efforts have been made to take into account the low incomes, including pensioners, by clearly increasing the pension income reduction, increasing the basic deduction and increasing the reduction in earnings. In this way you can meet low incomes. It has been criticised that this reduction in the contribution of the earnings-related pension fund has made it possible to partially balance the central government finances. That is a calculated matter to the extent to which fees are charged there. I am surprised that the Left would have been prepared to increase the tax burden on labour by opposing this reform as well. Mr President! There is still a need to take part in the debate in the future, but this is sufficient at this stage for a good budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u284	Mr President! The economy always runs its endless hill rally. Various experts in Finland also constantly monitor the state of the international economy and the domestic outlook. Information to support decision-making is available today in a completely different way than sometimes in the past decades. This should also be reflected better in Finland’s political decision-making. For a long time, debt has been made too lightly. Budget decisions are largely made in view of the forthcoming elections. Now the pace of the upswing begins to wane, and at some point the sled turns downhill again. The draft budget for 2019 is EUR 1.4 billion in deficit. Economic growth has brought relief to the government's distribution of money for a few years, but it has still not managed to balance expenditure and revenue. Despite low interest rates, excessive borrowing is quite a long run, and if you continue to do so indefinitely, you will certainly fall. At the end of 2019, the central government debt is estimated to be around EUR 109 billion, which is an excess of the same amount. For which paragraphs there is money to distribute and for which there is no money, it is a matter of value for the government. For example, there seems to be a great deal of division between development aid and the current government in order to cover the costs of immigration. The Minister for the Coalition Party's recent statements on the increase in development aid are certainly in the ear. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of development aid is notoriously poor. Aid often runs away from corruption, greed, war, and, as a result, the living conditions there among people in developing countries are deplorable. Of course, development aid is justified by the fact that, since its opponents do not want immigration to grow, development aid is the way things are done in the countries of origin. The reliance on development aid is also sometimes considered to slow down the natural development of the beneficiary countries towards a more stable society. However, the fact is that Finnish low-income pensioners are in bread queues and families with children are constantly having to compromise their basic expenses. Nevertheless, you are leaving the future generations with only a more extensive legacy of debt, the government. It is good that the strict situation of farmers has been taken into account, but with too little crisis package. On the whole, their situation is not so great. We really need to invest in the future of domestic agricultural production and right here and now. It must now be noted that the number of farmers is falling, incomes are falling, but more is being put into operating expenditure and bureaucracy — more than 6%. Car drivers are also in a similar situation. The vehicle tax will be reduced, but the total cost of driving is still high. In a country of long distances, the situation is a thorny one, especially in remote areas. Mr President! Municipalities are the organisers of a practical welfare society. The financial situation of Kun-tie is naturally reflected in the kind of services that can be provided to residents. The central government share of basic municipal services will decrease by EUR 86 million from the situation in 2018. This is not a good development. The war reform, its design, is probably already 211 million. I wonder if the reform is worth the sunken euros and hours worked there — it remains to be seen. The long-standing cuts in education and the implementation of early childhood education with limited resources are errors. I would have liked to see a positive change in this autumn's budget for these, but no. Veterans: A big thank you to the government for finally allowing front veterans the right to the same services as the war ovals have had. This is one of the things I myself have tried to do since 2011 and I have made this type of bill, which may now go through, three times already. And for that, thank you to the government. But one thing: concerns have been expressed about the financing of services by veteran organisations before the reform comes into force. A year is a long time, and many of the heroes of our wars will leave us in the middle. All veterans should be covered by better services as soon as possible. And then one more thing when it comes to the budget and money: There is a great deal of competition. In the field of neurological rehabilitation Masku's Neuro Center is a top-notch unit. It is now going completely out of this competitive situation when the service provider is being competed for. It is a very large minus, because it is a top unit, and I claim that no other place in Finland is able to provide such good services. ♪ So we'll have to do it for the quality, too ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u285	Mr President, värderade talman! It is really great that the Finnish economy is now doing better and that employment figures also look good — vi är på cirka 72 percent. The next target should be 75 % and over the longer term 80 %. Unfortunately, however, it seems that many of the necessary reforms in the labour market, such as the promotion of local reconciliation and the elimination of the need-tested foreign labour force, will not be carried out during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u286	Mr President! This last budget proposal by the government could be described as having been taken out of the bucket for three years and now the spoon is being given back. It is sad that the savings have been made by people who are already in the most vulnerable position. Small increases in social security do not in any way compensate for, for example, index cuts, freezes or savings already made. The situation of older people, especially in the case of small pensions, is already becoming rather hopeless. The government does make minor corrections, but when the total impact has not been calculated, for many elderly people, income can be a minus sign. In addition, the government has decided to save EUR 4.3 million from care and care also by reviewing quality recommendations, and this, if anything, is an unfortunate indication of the government's values. Future investment thinking also seems to be missing from the government's budget. Reductions in early childhood education, education, science, research and innovation during the Government term can pose a serious threat to future growth. Even good reforms in early childhood education, for example, will not help if groups are too large or some of the children are placed in unequal positions by depriving them of the right to full-time early childhood education. Last time I went to a day care centre yesterday, I was told that these so-called savings did not make sense, and the workers could not understand this. They reported that, for example, limiting subjective early childhood education rights has caused a lot of more work for the staff and many families have found themselves in a difficult situation. At the beginning of the government's term, the government promised to carry out an impact assessment on children, but unfortunately no overall impact on the various measures and savings has been made. Today, both the weakening of services and the savings are targeted at the same families with children. The poverty of families with children has increased, and children experience the many phenomena of poverty at school, at leisure and at home. In a child's life, poverty is not only a lack of wealth, it is also an externality and a delicate cycle of incompetence. The experience of poverty has a detrimental effect on the development of the child's emotional life, above all because of lack of cohesion and fear of stigmatisation. Studies show that children of poor families, for example, are being bullied more than others. Poverty easily leaves its permanent mark on children. The savings in vocational education and training have put educational institutions on the brink of chaos. Both students, teachers and parents of young people openly say that students have been left entirely to their own happiness and no one can afford to focus on student matters. The government and the minister were warned in advance that this would happen if huge savings were made before the reform. A small increase in the budget for next year's vocational education and training will unfortunately not be able to correct the plight and chaos of vocational education and training. Now the government is also driving the labour market into chaos. Indeed, on the basis of Mr Lindström's previous work experience, it should have been understood that at some point the camel's back would be broken. So much has been done to undermine workers' rights that this last proposal for a reduction in employment security was, so to speak, the last straw, especially since there is no impressive evidence of the employment impact of the bill. The government has even recorded in its own performance as follows: “Although a change in the law on the marginalisation threshold would have Studies show that reforms could increase job creation while at the same time increasing redundancies."
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u289	Madam President! Finland’s economy is growing. That is an excellent thing. Public debt is likely to fall in the next few years if this growth continues to grow in the same way. Employment is improving. It has therefore been astonishing today to listen to the opposition's speeches that there has been a loss of opportunity, and the Greens still seem to have the same background that all reforms are being rejected and financial responsibility is not being taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u292	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The last budget proposal by the Sipilä government is unsurprising. It's continuing the government's disparate policy. The most interesting aspect of the entire budget book is what it does not have. I believe that the most important thing that is missing is the vision of the future. Right now, we should be preparing for a hard ride of reforms that would make people's everyday lives better tomorrow, next year and next decade. Unfortunately, the government instills work life and welfare services by crumbling the basis for blindness and gloomy visions of the future, and I dare say that this is not intimidation but the practical reality of people from the province. The government's wet shoulders seem to have fallen as far as reforms are concerned. Unsustainable trade in social welfare cows is the only reform that has been presented at some level. It is also noteworthy that, even if it miraculously manages to go through this Parliament, there is no clarity about the financing of the reform — not even, as far as I know, you representatives of the government parties. There is also no clarity as to how the government actually thinks that almost 200 draft amendments will be prepared in committee work. The figure is that this has even been taken up in parliamentary work. The challenge of war is therefore being brought down into the hands of the next government, partly in terms of preparation and implementation. I am not saying that this reform is easy. If that were the case, it would have been done in the previous parliamentary term. As regards other reforms, which the government did not have the will to do — and at the beginning I pointed out that these visions and the lack of prospects for the future continue — the government did appoint a family minister, but there was no reform of the family leave. Neither did the government have time to reform social security, nor did it have time to solve pensioner poverty. I am also very concerned that the current government did not take steps towards second-degree free play, even though the Economic Policy Review Council also gave you its valuable opinion on this issue. The SDP is ready for these reforms, and we have also presented our own options for all of them. Mr President! The additional funding for reducing the road and rail repair debt, agreed jointly by Parliament, is also missing from the budget. How do we build this society together if the arrangement is not held? This is a completely new phenomenon which has come to light during this parliamentary term. There are a number of other things that need to be changed and unitedly settled. In the debat, Congressman Elo boasted a 50 million discount on car tax. That figure means that the car owner saves an average of EUR 10 per year. The feedback I am getting from the motorists themselves is quite a lot: that same amount would have been much more comforting as a repaired asphalt surface — especially since the additional funding agreed together by Parliament is completely out of the budget for next year. No matter how hard I tried to look in the budget book for government proposals to combat the shadow economy, I could not find one. How can it be that you've got your hands up here, too? I dare say that all of us, regardless of our party background, will receive feedback on unhealthy practices and the generality of working life. Can we afford not to eradicate the grey economy to the extent that we are capable of legislative or human resources? I don't think so. Lauri Ihalainen, among others, has put forward concrete ways: The introduction of a tax number will be extended, inter alia, to the transport sector. Ensure the management of social obligations throughout the whole subcontracting chain through the development of legislation on subscriber responsibility. Put the supply chains of public procurement in order so that all actors comply with the rules of society. The list could go on longer. Why the government does not want to ensure a fair business environment for entrepreneurs - We're Mr President! I am particularly saddened by the government's policy on working life. The list of unhappily, unsettled performances will continue. At the same time, feedback from people tells us how the active model is being applied in a completely unreasonable way. For example, if the conditions for an active model are met to run a very small-scale business, it is interpreted as an easy-to-use attempt and the possibility of a earnings-related one is interrupted. There are so many of these experiences and messages. They are linked by one factor: the active model is perceived to be completely unreasonable. To conclude, Mr President, it is good to hear that these new absurdities are now being raised in opposition also from within the government parties. I very much hope that the government will listen carefully, among other things, to a colleague whom I very much appreciate, Arto Sato, who has put forward a bill for the continuation of successful employment experiments in the municipalities, which, contrary to what the government has proposed, will probably lead us to discuss this tomorrow when the Ministry of Labour is dealing with the administrative sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u293	Mr President! I was a little disappointed by what Mr Taimela said. It was so negative. I myself was not here during the last parliamentary term, but you were then in charge of the government, when we really went down, in our province too. The 100,000 unemployed came, and Finland was almost in Greece’s way. After all, we have taken a huge turn in the Finnish economy. I now only take Varsinais-Suomi for example: 30,000 new industrial jobs will come with certainty and probably more. These industrial jobs are still creating new jobs. That way people will also get jobs in the Salo area, where it has been difficult, and they can get away with the work and then really make their own situation easier in many ways. Of course, there are still challenges, but I think that we should also see this big picture in the opposition parties, so that people are not misled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u294	Mr President! That there will be no misconceptions in any of the protocols, so I think that economic growth is an extremely good thing for the whole of our empire and for the future of Finland. Every job, whether created in the Salo region, in the Turku region or in Ilomantsi or Ivalo, is extremely important for Finland’s growth and Finland’s future. But then I find it somewhat unreasonable that even today, in several speeches which were also used in the debate, we were given the impression that this economic growth and these new jobs, and hence the well-being of the people, are now, in some way, something that has happened in this three-year period. We know that there are other factors here, not just those of the government. — Perhaps from here we will continue as we go to these discussions tomorrow in relation to the various substance ministries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u295	Mr. Speaker! I just want to take one thing into this debate, as it were, about this big picture of economic policy, perhaps Mr Taimela's comment. That was a good, constructive response he made. I believe that it is essential, whether we are doing politics on a European scale, on the scale of Finland or even of an individual municipality, on the scale of the city, that political decision-makers are rarely able to create businesses or jobs directly. But it is of great importance in the context of what kind of operating environment is created: whether it enables whether it creates opportunities for companies to invest, or if you want to be perhaps a bit like this pessimistic or ironic, so it matters whether politicians are in the way, whether politicians are in the way of jobs and investments. At least the government has not stood in their way nor has it prevented the growth of the global economy from coming to Finland. Of course, one may wonder what was done earlier when the growth only now came to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u296	Congressman Anttila, I'd like to make a full list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u297	Mr President! The fourth draft budget of the Sipilä Government shows the undeniable achievements of the Government's parliamentary term in order to improve the economy and employment significantly. The government's employment target, 72%, is even exceeded during this parliamentary term, and government debt is falling. After all, the city centre went to work during this parliamentary term by promising to put Finland in good shape. Undisputed results — 115,000 new jobs and the break-up of the sovereign debt cycle, the Competitiveness Pact and strong efforts, including in the fight against climate change — show that the government has acted in accordance withits promises. This has called for very difficult decisions, as has rightly been said here in the centre's group speech today, which I would have liked to see fairer, but the government programme has prevented this, because it has prohibited the taxation of anyone from being increased. The index cuts and the withdrawal of sick medical and travel expenses from everyone, even the low-income ones, have been hard-hitting, I can honestly admit. But the light at the end of the tunnel: the worst injustices have now been remedied in this budget proposal for EUR 70 million by raising guarantee pensions, the smallest sickness, maternity and parental funds, and reducing the liability of medical expenses — these as a few examples. Then, in actual fact, I am talking about the reform of vocational education and training — for the reason that I am unable to be here when the Minister is involved. A number of reforms have been carried out during this parliamentary term, and the reform of vocational education and training is, of course, necessary. However, the centre, under the leadership of its Prime Minister, tried to achieve a one-year transitional period, which would have enabled the reform to be implemented and the funding to be lost only after the second year, i.e. the following year. Now, however, it was done that the reform is being carried out at the same time as the money has been taken. Preparations for reform have been forced at the expense of local education. So the parents of the students wonder why children do not have school, there are days off during the week, and then there are days when there are only a few hours of teaching a day. That is what we need to change, and next year's education, at least at our school, where I chair the board, has been followed by a line that at least six hours of instruction should be available on five days next year. The priority must be to focus on quality contact education, as it guarantees the training of skilled workers. If a student doesn't have classes at school, he shouldn't even go to that school. In other words, the motivation for learning suffers from a lack of education and a lack of quality. The reform is increasingly based on self-learning, the student's own responsibility and job learning. The reform does not meet the needs of those who do not have these motivations in order. One of the problems with this reform is how to resolve the situation in their case, because today everyone who wants to go to vocational education and training will be able to do so. So the weaker students are easily overlooked, even though there is a poks for the student, i.e. the development of the student’s learning plan. The teacher must follow the progress of the student, and he is ultimately responsible for it. The basic objective of vocational education and training reform is good, but its implementation is severely limited due to these timetables. At the same time, the rise of the Finnish economy is hampered by a severe labour shortage. At a time when there should be more rapid training of the new workforce, vocational training is a problem in the implementation of the reform. The implementation of the reform will make it difficult to train a new workforce — because each school will apply the law little according to its own intentions. Mr President! Finally, a few words on climate change: A severe drought brings famine to the earth. In Finland, there was already a bit of a taste of this. 800 million people on earth are starving, there is a severe shortage of food, water and energy. By the way, the lack of food was one of the causes of our national war. Now we must continue to act in such a way that Finland retains its ability to continue to produce food. We have energy, we have clean water, we have every chance of doing so, but now we need to put the food chain in order and we need to get producers in a fair position. Farmers have the right to the livelihood which, as a fair value added in the chain, is distributed to the various actors in the chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u298	That was a second of five minutes. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u299	Mr President! Now that the government's proposal for next year's budget has been announced, it can be said that the opposition is probably worried that this was not an election budget but a realistic economic picture of where we are and what we need next year. The Finnish economy is currently growing at a very good rate, it has been said many times in this debate. That's great. The debt take-up ends in 2020, which was the government's objective. It can be said that all the objectives set by the government for this parliamentary term have been fulfilled. I understand the pain of the opposition that there are no weapons to attack the government once all the objectives have been achieved. I vividly remember when 2015, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, when the government programme was discussed in this Chamber, the opposition shouted out loud that completely utopian goals cannot be achieved. I understand the pain of having this weapon of yours now proved ineffective and the objectives of the government are being fulfilled. In that pain, of course, you will have to use some other means to make your voice heard. The reduction in unemployment is also very important. The employment rate is currently 72 per cent, and as Prime Minister Juha Sipilä has said in his own speeches many times in this Chamber, the big goal of the next government is to raise the employment rate to 75 per cent. It is absolutely essential that we be able to continue to restructure the national economy. International credit rating agencies, most recently Standard & Poor‘s, have warned us that our economy is not yet in such a state that it will be able to cope properly with the next coming recession. And on average, the recession comes every less than 10 years, so that it is not to be expected, however. You just have to be prepared for it. During this parliamentary term, too, the bioeconomy has proved strong in this country because it has again lifted the Finnish recession out of the swamp. “For the better days of the tree” was The foundation stone of the national economy rests in Finland's natural resources. Forests, fields and soil wealth are the hope of this country quite clearly, and we have every opportunity to bring new healthy growth from them to all parts of Finland. — And please note, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that this economic growth is currently everywhere in Finland. Although many feel that Finland is focusing on the south here, growth is moving at a ferocious pace in Kainuu as well as in Lapland. So it is worth remembering where the growth is when you start to say something about government policy. The budget will take a position on the difficult situation in agriculture. The measures agreed by the government are good and must be kept under constant watch that, if there is a need for additional budgets that can correct the still difficult situation, those measures must of course be taken. I believe that something will come out of the work of Reijo Karhinen, which is currently under way, but yes, agriculture, which is very important for the national economy, must be able to make it work to ensure that the farmer manages well with the income of his own farm and is able to obtain a fair return on the raw material he produces. Self-sufficiency in Finland is not at a good level, as we know. In food, we are not self-sufficient, but a large part of the food is still imported to Finland. After all, it is a strange situation for us to be able to produce and keep our own food jobs in Finland, but in many cases, when we make purchasing decisions, we end up in foreign food. Here we should all look a little in the mirror and see what would be a wise thing to do. However, we must remember that there are more than 300,000 jobs behind domestic agriculture. It's not a small thing. As the Minister of Finance, Orpo, has said many times, there is no room for division in this budget either. Instead, there is a risk of sharing benefits that we cannot afford. When you listen to what the opposition has to say, you feel that there is more to share, but the way you run away from the wolf will certainly be met by a bear. Mr President! Finally, with the coming parliamentary term ahead, I hope that the way in which growth is created will continue in the next parliamentary term. The opposition has put forward incomprehensible ways to improve the economy. Among other things, they have talked about tax tightening, but it is already a terrible experience that when taxes are raised, what happens to employment. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say hello to the Greens. The Greens are known to be the environmental party in this country. Nevertheless, even in this city they are the most zealous coal burners. After that, they enthusiastically turn our forests into protected areas, and after that they still blame those people who warmly support the burning of wood and domestic raw materials. The coal burns happily. Finally, President-in-Office, it is easy in the back of a taxi to give instructions to others when they are not being followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u300	Mr President! This government budget for next year will consistently follow the line that has marked the government term. The main objective has been and continues to be the restoration of Finland. This includes ending debt, the competitiveness of the country and raising employment. The years of government, and this last one, have been balancing with those goals and with people’s daily lives, normal things, security and well - being. Security here also means social security. Mr President! Many speeches have already said that big goals are already very close and that some of them have already been achieved. I myself thought in this speech to highlight how, with the improvement of the Finnish economy, it has been possible and also necessary to correct the position of some people, particularly the most disadvantaged. Of course, work is a social security factor. When more than 100,000 people have been employed in the last three years, it means stability in life. It also means that there will be fewer people who will have to rely on that social security, last-minute support and income security. With regard to the correction of social security, I think it is very important that the increase in the minimum maternity, parental and sickness allowances of approximately EUR 80 per month is made. The day of care for a newborn child has now finally been recognised as being as valuable as the day of unemployment. The same aim of reducing inequalities is also the change in the way in which sick days are reduced from 55 days to that of others who are ill, such as mothers caring for their children at home or fathers. This change has been awaited for a long time, for even common sense says that if a day’s work is, for example, caring for children, it is a job for someone when a nurse falls ill. This budget will improve the status of single parents in such a way that it will give them the right to parental allowance days corresponding to paternity allowance days. The increase in the budget guarantee pension is small, EUR 9 per month, but it is estimated to reduce the need for income security by EUR 1.7 million. However, together with other increases made during this government, the income of these people receiving a minimum pension has improved somewhat. At the same time, the livelihood of older people is also affected by the reduction of the self-responsibilities of older medicines. A significant correction to the lives of the disadvantaged is also that educational material supplement that allows families with low incomes to send their young to secondary education with a little more confidence. Equally important is getting all veterans on the same line in home services. Mr President! My own education promise in the run-up to the last election was that those studying at universities of applied sciences must be brought to the same line as those studying at universities of science. This too is now on the way, albeit with a little delay. The status of the spouse of an entrepreneur improves so that he or she will be treated as an employee in the future. Mr President! This list could probably go on for a long time. But I took these examples to remind you that this government has, in addition to the big things that wave over the kingdom, the purpose is to safeguard the chances of life and livelihood for all these most disadvantaged. I therefore expect that this kind of thing will also be followed up by future governments. As one line, I will raise the issue of families with children. The Ombudsman for Children has also tried to make noise about the poverty of families with children, which is a fact. We all recognise that the country needs children, but the actions of recent years have been very poor for families with children. I hope the families with children are next.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u301	Mr President! In this big picture debate, I thought that I would mainly address two entities, the future of the welfare state and the related educational and knowledge inputs and sustainable development from the perspective of climate change. Finally, a few words about creative sectors too. Mr President! First of all, this big picture of economic policy. As has been said here today, a good cyclical situation has generally been seen at the right time to make reforms that support growth and reduce inequalities that prepare us for the future. This is particularly important, especially since we know that the forecasts for next year will be weaker than for this year. This is some kind of golden moment. Attention should be paid to how we secure sustainable and inclusive growth in the economy and employment until the 2030s. And this is where the SDP has presented a number of reforms and investment solutions: family leave reform, extending early childhood education with a truly subjective right to all children, extending compulsory education, the learning path to 2030, reaching out and investing in research in order to strengthen and ensure our position globally. Well, here we have a job to do for the years to come, quite modest were still the stakes. But let us return to this, for which there is something good to say in this draft budget, and this relates to climate change and sustainable development. We in the Committee on the Future have dealt with different models that can bring this perspective to our budgeting, and some of it has already been brought there. The starting point is the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030, which is, by the way, also on the basis of the future agenda of the SDP for 2030, and this thinking has now gradually been included in the budget of the various administrative sectors. Today, Minister of Finance Orpo highlighted the administrative sector of the STM and there are also indications of this in a number of other administrative sectors. In the same way, I will make it visible that if we are really going to take the measures needed to adapt to climate change and to promote sustainable growth and development, we are likely to have to renew the time with what structure that yellow book will be made in the future and find quite different types of entities, in a way that may no longer follow decades of old and even centuries of ways of thinking about the national economy. But this work has now begun, and the VM is also involved in what I am very pleased about. Well, second as a whole, then, in this future-oriented budgetary debate, I want to raise skills and education. It is certainly an absolute value, but it is also strongly linked to the future of the welfare state. We all know that a welfare state requires a high employment rate and ensuring it for a long time to come, especially when the age structure of our population is what it is at present. Skills related to employment are also very important when we talk about exclusion or, for example, the success of integration, i.e. it has a very wide-ranging impact in many directions. In that debate, I raised the issue of the second stage of compulsory education during the day, and that is precisely the question of those groups which, for example, are in a critical position in terms of exclusion from work or, for example, the success of integration. We have very much evidence of the success of the Youth Guarantee, the Education Guarantee, as well as of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council's assessments that the inclusion of secondary education as a part of the education path for the whole population would be an action that would be necessary for the future, in order to ensure, in particular, the possibility of a high level of employment in the future. This line of pro-reforms has grown in the last six months. There are both the OAJ, the Children’s Councillor and indeed a wide range of our economists. One example of good practice in integration, where we have made progress here in Helsinki, is the centre of excellence of Stadi, which we should look at in the future when we also look at good examples in the budget. And last but not least, I would like to mention the compensatory payment from that creative sector, which we can return to tomorrow when the section of OKM is here at hand. There was a little unusual surgery. It is a small but very important issue for the sector itself. Mr President! On this basis, we will then continue to discuss in detail tomorrow, but in the big picture we would have needed a little more stakes in terms of climate change and knowledge. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u302	Mr. Speaker! Today we are discussing the 2019 state budget, and the government's bill of revenue and expenditure in this referral debate is about Juha The last government budget of Sipilä's first government. The key indicators of this 2019 budget are that the so-called budget total is 55.3 billion and revenue is estimated next year at 53.9 billion for the Finnish State, which means that this draft budget is 1.4 billion in deficit, which may be worth considering. Although we are living in a booming period and Finland is rising and the outlook is positive for both companies and households, we are still doing and we are going to have to make a slight budget deficit for next year. President! This budget will be dealt with when the Finnish economy is in a truly favourable and optimistic mood. Economic growth, GDP growth, currently stands at around 3%, and it seems that all the economic policy objectives set by the Sipilä Government three years ago are on the way. We're done taking on the extra debt. After all, the debt burden is quite large for us young generations and for our children, but the additional debt collection will stop, and the employment rate, which is very important, will reach the 72% that has been sought. I believe that this achievement of major economic policy objectives is the greatest political legacy of the 2015-2019 parliamentary term. One can say that Finland was rescued from financial bankruptcy during this parliamentary term. Mr President! I would like to raise a few points about the budget, perhaps under two themes. These are two good old Finnish sayings. The first saying: Does our country have patience to prosper? And another saying: no one leaves a guy. Does our country have any patience to prosper? After all, now we are in danger that, when things are going better in Finland, we can gradually get back to that kind of casino economy and start thinking that I need to get more of this joint success now. But we must now be able to build sustainable growth — sustainable growth that is visible in all regions, including rural areas, regions, smaller cities — and growth that can also improve the daily lives of people with low and middle incomes. But it must be done in a sustainable, controlled way, otherwise we will be faced with bigger problems in a few years' time. President! Social justice — the poor cause of Santeri Alkio, of which the government has been much criticised in recent years — has been dealt with in this budget. The most important thing is that Kela’s minimum daily allowance will be increased by approximately EUR 80 per month, and it will really help those who are in the most vulnerable position. It is also possible to raise the guarantee pension once again during this parliamentary term by EUR 9 per month. In addition, families will find relief in groups of day care and family assistance, among other things. I consider the Green Left's stock savings account today to be positive. It is certainly not a crucial issue for the success of our national economy, but I think it is very important that we encourage Finnish and Finnish households to save and prepare for the future and we encourage face-to-face ownership so that even more Finnish listed companies are owned by Finns. The Government Programme of Sipilä mentioned the tax exemption for small dividends and is now being implemented in this equity savings account. I myself have also asked a written question on this subject in the summer of 2016. It is also important to correct the shortcomings of these so-called insurance portfolios and capitalisation agreements. Mr President! It is a great thing that this budget tackles this crisis caused by drought in agriculture, but the message I have received all summer and autumn has been: ‘Antti, what crisis packages do not help. Now we need to get the markets working and the trade in order to control and the trade to enter the chain — industry and farmers — the share that belongs to them.’ President! End: The most historic guy is not left behind in this budget is that at last our veterans of our wars become equal in home service. Those of our last distinguished citizens who are among us will receive home the same services as the war ombudsmen in the past. I would like to thank the chairman of the parliamentary group in the Centre for this work, Mr Antti Kaikko, and all the parliamentary groups,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u303	Mr President! The draft budget for 2019 will therefore be on the table. A little reminiscent of where we started in 2015, when this Sipilä government started. We inherited a indebted Finland, where widespread unemployment was rampant, in the economic figures we were the dregs of Europe. It was unquestionably clear that we need to do things in order to get Finland back on a solid footing and Finland back on the road to where we are supposed to be, so that people have work to do and that we can better finance services here again — a determined goal set until the end of this parliamentary term. So, what happened? People have been able to work, more than 110,000 jobs have been created in Finland. All in all, entrepreneurship is at the centre. Future faith has been created. It has been created to believe that investment has been made and employed. There's been a stop to the debt. Of course, next year we will still be in debt, but then we will be able to stop the debt and hopefully also get to the point where we can start paying off the sovereign debt. This has not come for free. There have been cuts, nasty cuts, which have affected many Finns, but at the same time as new growth has been invested in business, it has been invested in the future, the whole of Finland has been mobilised using the bioeconomy, for example. We have taken steps towards this goal that we are now implementing. Mr. Speaker! Bioeconomy is one of these key resources, and food production is, of course, the cornerstone of our Finns. The food chain employs well over 300,000 people, and in that sense it is already an extremely important sector to take care of. But when we think about it a little bit from now on, 10, 15, 20 years from now, Finland will be very central areas in food production due to climate change. That is why we must now keep our domestic food production profitable and keep it on its feet. There have been challenges. Last year there was an extremely wet summer that destroyed the harvest to a very large extent and brought profitability problems, this year there was drought, the same problem, perhaps even worse than last year. This government brought and brought a package of support which we will now decide here in the autumn. It is a patch for this bigger problem, because in the big picture, profitability has gone down precisely because of an invalid market. The producer does not receive the part that the producer is entitled to under pressure from the industry and, in particular, from trade. This is an issue that needs to be addressed through legislation if trade is not to take responsibility on its own initiative. Mr. Speaker! Sustainable use of forests is an essential part of the whole of Finland's use of resources. Here, too, during the debate in the hall, incorrect information and incorrect images were brought in during the day about how the whole of Finland would now be avowed or the whole of Finland would somehow contribute to climate change by using our forests. But we use our forests sustainably in Finland. Each tree will be replaced by a new tree. We take care of our forests, we take care of our forests. Our carbon sinks are the forests, and we take care of that. But at the same time as we use our forests — not even as much as we do every year — we have made it possible for the forest industry to invest in Finland. We have come to Finland with wood processing plants, sawmills, pulp mills, bioproduct factories and so on. We can now make better use of it in our forest. Another issue that relates both to forests and to the rest of the world is energy. In energy policy, we must keep realism. I regret that the taxation of domestic energy, peat, is being tightened up in connection with this budget, but still domestic, Finnish energy, forest chips and peat as its support fuel goes ahead of coal imported from abroad in the order of origin, and that is what we must continue to hold onto. All in all, the next government will receive from this government
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u304	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! As a central, fresh representative of Parliament, I am proud to have followed Sipilä's regime from a person who has made difficult savings and cuts to an innovative source of significant reforms. Some of these reforms have already come into force. Some, such as legislation on upper secondary school, will enter into force next year. At least in Raahe, the new early childhood education law has been welcomed with joy, and the day care staff praises many of the things that are now included in the law. However, the law is not fully ready, but it is hoped that the definition of the future of shift care will come to it in further processing. Now there are no guidelines for how long a child can be cared for at a time because of the work of a parent. People in early childhood education also want common rules laid down by law for children who need support. For example, the number of special teachers in early childhood education should be recorded in the law and there should be common regulations on the organisation of support, such as basic education, where three-tier support has been introduced. The first steps in vocational education reform have also gained good experiences in Raahe. Last night, at the New Amis seminar, I heard a media student commending the student at his institution for the approach he was taking as an individual. Vocational training has been undergoing quite a revolution and the staff has not been spared the mill. The message about reform was made clear. Hopefully the time for cuts is over, and hopefully we can continue our daily lives renewed and with sufficient resources, for example, in relation to student care, reform, when there is a strong social responsibility perspective. Let's try to find a path to the profession and working life for even the weakest learners, but this requires a focus on personal guidance. The organisers of vocational education and training want to see a genuine reduction in bureaucracy in the organisation of education. The education permit process takes far too long when the education providers should be able to react quickly to the training of the workforce from the needs of the business community. Local towns should also be able to organise vocational education more broadly. You can do it. You can do it. You can do it. When I'm a teacher from high school, I'm happy. From the strong implementation of the mobile school project to the school world and the expansion to the everyday life of secondary students With the "Mobile Study" program. Over the last twenty years, reduced mobility is already a threat to our public health. Many entertainments in our modern society and the example of non-active lifestyles shown by parents themselves create a breeding ground for unhealthy lifestyles with insufficient physical activity. Mobility school and mobile study projects open the way for change for both staff and young people. It is possible to make education more mobile even in the history of which I myself represent. At our school, a new schedule was built so that a 25 - minute recess was included during the morning, during which we had time to play a nice game of games. Our classes were equipped with gymnastics rings and chin - pull bars, which also inspired us teachers to develop our own muscle condition. All in all, the mobile school is a successful top project of the Sipilä Government, the resources of which have rightly been remembered in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u305	Mr President! This year, Finland's gross domestic product will grow with the Ministry of Finance forecast by around 3 per cent and finally reach the 2008 level this autumn. The government's employment objective has also been met this year. Otherwise, the government’s objectives have largely been met. During its term of office so far, the Government has exceeded very clearly the achievements of the Katainen and Stubbi Governments. Finland has really reached a growth path: the employment rate has risen clearly and our country is a better place to live, better than it was in 2015 when the current government started its mission. The competitiveness of Finnish exports has clearly improved and improved in relation to other European countries. The Government’s Competitiveness Pact has played a key role in this. As a small country, we are heavily dependent on exports. Exports are a key factor in our economic well-being. The draft budget for 2019 will continue in a consistent and good line of government. Increasing employment opportunities, improving the livelihood of low-income people and ending their debt are all objectives that this budget contributes to. It should also be borne in mind that this government has also been very productive in its deregulation efforts and there are huge standards that have been dismantled. The most recent thing seems to be to put an end to the highly annoying shift of clocks in Finland as early as next year. A great deal has been done. Mr President! Facilitating redundancies in the labour market in small businesses has chafed and chafed many. However, it is important to remember that these measures are aimed specifically at facilitating employment. It is therefore a change that increases the overall benefit, not a reduction. There are real risks to employment, especially in the smallest companies, so facilitating dismissal is a concrete way of substantially lowering the employment threshold, which is often very hard in the current situation. In order to ease the very difficult situation in agriculture, a slightly helpful solution was found, but much needs to be done to improve the overall profitability of the sector. The difficult drought has been a major cause of agricultural distress this year, but the sector would also be in difficulties under optimal conditions. The reason for this is found in buyers whose pricing power is disproportionate to producers. Industry and trade should meet in order to make things right. The establishment of a Food Ombudsman to eliminate unfair trade practices and practices is a step in the right direction, but of course the price level of the market cannot be influenced by an official. Mr President! Taking advantage of the positive structural change in south-west Finland will serve as a guide for the country as a whole. The extension of the bridge agreement to the rest of the country in order to avoid labour shortages is a sign of its success in south-west Finland. Further concrete action would be needed to develop transport infrastructure. An hour’s train planning allocation between Helsinki and Turku is a great long-term project promotion measure, but nationally important routes such as highways 8 and 9 also need rapid improvement to prevent them from becoming even worse bottlenecks for development. Mr President! The end of life in debt and expenditure discipline are extremely important, especially since it is only the third year of high economic growth and significant growth. The global economy seems to be slowly declining over the next two years. A new recession will inevitably come sooner or later, and it should be possible to revive it. In a period of high economic growth, public finances should be in surplus. Transferring the focus of taxation to harmful taxes is the right direction, but there would still be room for tightening in the budget in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u306	Mr President! Today we have discussed the Government's draft budget for next year. This draft budget is the last of this parliamentary term, and if we look at this time behind, we can say that the government's programme, supported by a majority in Parliament, has produced results for Finnish society. 115,000 jobs have been created since then. It has brought stability, security in the lives of families, it has enabled business exports to be refreshed, and economic growth figures can also speak of a 3% increase in the current year — next year's draft budget shows that the growth rate would be 1.7 %. In addition, the taking of debt decreases. This year the employment rate will reach the level set by the government at 72%, and next year the forecast for unemployment is 6.9%. There are many positive aspects of this budget. Firstly, this proposal will improve the position of the low-income and pensioners. The minimum daily allowance will rise, and the guaranteed pension will be increased by EUR 9 per month. In addition, social justice and the situation of families will be improved by the fact that the group size of day care will be reduced and the home help of families will be a new opportunity. Social security for entrepreneurs will also improve, i.e. the family member who is a shareholder will not be eligible for unemployment benefit. With regard to entrepreneurship and employment in general, the challenge is to pay more and more attention to access to skilled labour. Today, the Finnish Entrepreneurs’ Growth Finland theme day was celebrated, and it was confirmed that more support for labour mobility is needed for improving the acquisition of skilled labour. This means improving both the foreign labour force and the integration of those who have moved to the country. There have been many speeches here about the agricultural situation and, as we know, during this year, the drought was the one that caused the agricultural crop situation to fall to a very low level, and it then led to a great loss of income for farmers. It has been great that in Finnish society this debate has been very unanimous. The Government is proposing a total package of €86,5 million, of which €30 million will be spent on national income support types and national supplementation of EU subsidies. The amending budget and next year's budget will divide it by 30 million. The compensatory allowance will be returned to the level of the previous programming period, which was already agreed in the spending limits debate for 10 million, and 21.5 million will now be in the budget debate and 6 million as part of the drought package. In addition, 12 million will be added to the various targets. This draft budget also deals with wolf measures in the agricultural and forestry section and allocates an additional EUR 300000 to the Natural Resources Centre for wolf monitoring and field work. In other words, this is intended to encourage wolf herds in Western Finland in particular, and thus to gain better control of this wolf situation. I find this additional EUR 300000 very questionable and very difficult to put into practice. This means that around EUR 10,000 per wolf would be this cost, which comes from this, and if we look at this amount of money, I think it is completely unfounded. We know that dogs are essential, for example, in SRVA activities and also very necessary in other hunting activities, and that is why we should definitely reduce the wolf population. Today, for example, a message came from Konnevesi about the death of a double-valid dog in the teeth of wolves, and with regard to such a high-quality dog, it can be said that an appropriation of up to EUR 50000 is being talked about. With regard to police action, there is a positive increase of EUR 3 million, and increasing the Defence Forces' 100 jobs and securing material supplies are also important issues. Of course, we will miss the intervention of the Ministry of Transport as well. This would have been a positive need for different parts of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u307	Mr President! The budget proposal proposes a budget of EUR 55.3 billion, with a deficit of EUR 1.4 billion for the central government budget. In the light of the fact that we are well on the rise and that economic growth has risen, we are still in debt. What amounts of debt do we take, then, when we are not involved in this economic growth? The prognosis is not that this is permanent. Well, then, where do we have to invest our money? Finns, our own infrastructure, our own industrial policy, our own poor. Nationalism has, for some reason, been branded false in some way, even if Finnish reality is not possible without nationalism. We would not have a state or this culture without strong national defence. We in the EU are not in the interests of Finland. We accept everything the policy of dictation gives us from there. The future of the countryside — Is it? If you carefully read those EU agreements and records, then it says that agriculture is produced where it is most productive, and that means that it will come to an end from Finland in this EU policy if we do not have the courage to defend it. This has been decreasing all the time, and the next EU financial framework will be another death blow to our agriculture. This drought package, which the government is proposing, is therefore EUR 50 million, but when farmers lose EUR 400 million, it is a rather sad one on that side. Do we really want to take care of our self-sufficiency? Do we want to keep the countryside inhabited? Do we want to be cultivated in Finland in 20 years' time? The second point is infrastructure, accessibility. We are a country of long distances and accessibility is of paramount importance. For example, the Pori-Tampere line is an important road for passenger and freight transport, and in order to increase the safety of the section of the line and to shorten the journey time for Pori-Helsinki passenger rail transport, the level crossings of the track should be removed. This is something we must definitely invest in. This must no longer be postponed. We need this infrastructure project. Then there's another thing. I, for example, said in 2015 that we must convert all asylum seekers at the border. We would have saved billions of euros in it, so I actually have an alternative to the EUR 1 billion that this government put in place for asylum seekers, most of which do not even get a positive asylum decision. I would have had a presentation here for the billion: Helsinki—Forssa—Pori transport route — this is made by the Häme Federation, the Satakuntaliitto and the Federation of Uusimaa [ The speaker shows the paper in his hand]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u308	Mr President! There are a couple of things I would like to draw attention to. First of all, that budget book. It was a great surprise when I found a note there that the tax on peat was being increased. It is very difficult for me to understand that for a legitimate reason. Firstly, during the peak of the forest industry, the fibre-wood market is currently very hot and all the timber that can be obtained by the roadside is guaranteed to go to the pulp mill. Of course, there will be heat and electricity as a by-product and other by-products traditionally produced by the forest industry. Of course, some bark and other stuff will be delivered to the power plants as raw material, but it is certain that next winter, if it happens to be a very cold winter, the freezer is right, as some people are sure to predict at the moment, we will have very serious difficulties in supplying the wood chips to the power plants, because the idea is that at the moment, when the forest industry is full, access to the wood chips to the power plants will be very difficult because of this competitive situation, and in recent years, when the search has not really had a domestic market, it means that the search companies in Finland are almost non-existent. Combined combustion of peat and wood chips in this country warms the home of more than a million people. At the same time, it produces very valuable electricity produced on the CHP principle, and when peat is burned, we know that 5% of electricity will be generated due to its increased combustion temperature and at the same time the climate will be managed, as fine particles will burn away accurately when the boiler’s burning temperature is higher. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this is not very well-founded in this government proposal. I therefore hope that, when this tax law is cut into the final form in the government's proposal, attention will be paid to this, because what I think is completely ignored in this budget debate is security of supply. On the energy side, we are nowhere near self-sufficiency, not even that way. Of course, people are trying and going that way, but it is through domestic energy raw materials that we should give a sure signal to Finnish entrepreneurs in rural areas around Finland. Of course, they do exist here in Uusimaa, they are just as valuable entrepreneurs on the energy side as colleagues in Lapland, of course, but that message should now be from this house to those provinces, that energy produced with domestic raw materials is really valuable, more work in the countryside and, above all, it will prevent coal from gradually gaining more power in this country. There has been much talk of banning the use of coal. Let him forbid tomorrow, I'm in favour of that thought, but something has to be replaced. We can't think of anything so that we end up with someone and what to do with the place. If next winter is a cold winter, as some people have strongly predicted, a perch of back fin or whatever, then we will be in a situation where this energy policy will have to be considered and very carefully. It is not a good thing when there is no energy raw material for power plants to use, and there is no basis in my thinking for endangering CHP power stations because of the wrong budgetary decisions. That is why I hope, Mr President, that this matter will be carefully examined in Parliament. As far as peat is concerned, we are currently very much in the process of creating new industries, new openings to the world market with bio-based substances based on the excellent biological properties of peat. It is an excellent raw material which should be used very much in this country. And it is not a question of raping the swamps of Finland, and it is a matter of a few per cent of the whole of Finland's marshland area, and the majority of what is currently protected should continue to be protected, no threat whatsoever. Our energy policy is not threatened by anything other than the lack of vision and narrow-mindedness that, unfortunately, I have even had to believe, as a result of recent speeches, that this is where we are going when we hear such opinions. But, Mr President, I hope that this will be taken into account and that the taxation of domestic energy raw materials will be put in such a way that we will be able to keep our own country warm, whether it is a warm or cold winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u309	Mr President! I would like to comment on a few more points in this budget debate. Firstly, Mr Huhtasaari used a very colorful speech and moved at a high level in his reflection on the future of rural areas, the European Union, but yes to Mr Huhtasaari and all of us I would like to say that one of the biggest things, the biggest problem, is that I myself have talked to MTK and that it is practical farmers, producers of different production lines, who play an overwhelming role in that chain, and we should be able to move forward on the side of competition law. I am sure this will be more specific during this week of the debate on the budget, but I would like to thank the Minister for Agriculture very much at this point. Let us rest on the efforts he has made to get this so-called trade agent, the Food Market Commissioner, who will see to it that there are no unfair practices such as railing on the food market there. The Competition and Consumer Authority has issued some mixed opinions. It has sometimes been felt that there is nothing that can be done through competition law. Instead, Mount Counsellor Reijo Karhinen, who explains this situation in the Finnish food market, believed that competition law could somehow help to ease the situation of the producer. But with aid policy, with EU aid or with national aid, I do not believe that this situation can be resolved. Mr President! Security is also emphasised when it comes to government revenue and expenditure, because our security environment has changed so radically over the last four or five years, and I very much welcome the fact that we are now spending more money on security authorities, on the police, especially on the police in the sparsely populated area, but we should now resolve this situation of so-called police cold stations. After all, we have police stations that were preserved, which was the result of political will, even the hard lobbying of the centre, but there will be no police at all, and we have the least police officers per inhabitant in Finland. We should quickly increase the number of policemen from 7,200 to 7,500 and to 8,000. That would be a lasting amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u310	Mr President! Unfortunately, debt has not stopped even in the boom season. Despite previous cuts, the budget for next year presented by the Minister for Finance today is still EUR 1.4 billion in deficit. However, debt-taking could be brought to an end by promoting employment through incentives rather than a stick line. Mr President! Finland lives from work. The quality and appreciation of Finnish work must be guaranteed. Reducing barriers to employment and entrepreneurship would be in the interests of both entrepreneurs, workers and society. There is no reason to contradict. Reducing taxation and improving the operating conditions of small businesses would provide Finland with an opportunity for a new rise. The price of housing and mobility is high as a result of short-sighted policies. Obstacles to planning and land speculation, increasing property taxation and rising fuel prices weigh on the Finnish economy. Reducing housing and mobility costs would also make it easier to work. The need for lifelong learning is increasing. In addition to the usual training provided in educational establishments, apprenticeships, especially in the workplace, would enable employees to have a cost-effective and accurate training in line with the needs of businesses. At the same time, it would significantly improve employment opportunities. Mr President! Despite positive economic development, there are still huge uncertainties in the budget. According to recent information in the public domain, the Ministry of the Interior is preparing for the arrival of as many as 100,000 asylum seekers. This figure is staggering even compared to over 32,000 asylum seekers in the record year 2015. The indecision of autumn 2015 resulted in an additional bill of billions for taxpayers, which may have been further increased by conscious errors. No one knows the total amount of the bill. But the new horror scenario of the Ministry of the Interior would be a crisis, not to mention the many social multiplier effects of the Finnish economy. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, must ultimately instruct officials to take preventive action rather than just after-care. There's no time to lose at all. In addition, the Government intends, among other things, to abolish a four-month working requirement for foreigners coming to Finland, which has so far been a prerequisite for receiving social assistance. In the future, a foreigner would enjoy the social benefits of Finland if he earned the basic daily allowance. If implemented, the proposal would most likely accelerate the entry of cheap labour into the Finnish labour market. The government must reject this development, and it must not bring such a bad proposal to Parliament at all. Mr President! The fate of the most controversial social and regional reform is expected with special excitement. Although the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also worked on the reform during the summer, Parliament still does not have any concrete calculations of the actual cost implications of the reform. However, the planned reform would probably increase customer charges for social services. The impact would then be particularly on the low-income and high-income part of the population using social services. The original purpose of the reform was to compensate for health inequalities, not to increase the need for income transfers. So it's the wrong direction. Both the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must therefore have the wisdom to make sensible decisions in the face of a tight and political pressure. And if the government falls into it, the Prime Minister should be comforted to know that the parliamentary elections will in any case be up in the next few months. Mr President! The budget takes into account the recent joint decision by parliamentary groups in principle, which will guarantee equal services for veterans in our wars in support of living at home as of November 2019. Currently, free home services provided by war-qualified persons are subject to a disadvantage rate of at least 10 per cent. The decision on home services for each veteran is good and correct in terms of content. The Finns of Peru have been aiming for this kind of outcome through a number of legislative initiatives for years. However, even the youngest veterans are already 90 years old, so paying a debt of honor is very busy. There are just over 10,000 veterans left to live, and their number is reduced by a couple of thousand persons a year. Mr President! The reform should enter into force from the beginning of next year. The price tag for faster implementation would be some 10 million euros, which is a small sum compared to the sacrifices made in the wars for Finland’s independence. Mr President, at least its entire nation owes money to veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u311	Mr President! Unfortunately, this government will be remembered for systematically increasing inequality and weakening the livelihoods of people on low incomes. The government blames people on low incomes, dependent on social security, as if the need for social security were their fault. This has pissed off a lot of people. In concrete terms, this is also reflected in this budget, in the fact that, despite good economic development, the government continues to cut the most low-income people with index cuts, among other things. In other words, despite good economic development, the government is still failing to raise social security benefits linked to the National Pensions Index. Thus the government continues on a path that increases inequality and makes life difficult for people with low incomes. The particular concern concerns people on low incomes, people on social security, such as the sick, pensioners on unemployment benefit and pensioners on low incomes. For people receiving a small guarantee pension, the government offers an increase in the guarantee pension, which is in so far as the increase in the guarantee pension has barely compensated for the deterioration caused by index freezes. This will not improve their livelihood, as the government parties claim. In addition, the Board of Directors will weaken the small earnings-related pension and income from the national pension during its term of office by nearly EUR 350 per year compared to the situation where index increases would have been made normally. This is a lot of money, especially for low-income pensioners. The same cutting line has also applied to the basic security of the unemployed person, and child benefits have already been completely removed from the index. This government will be left in history as a weakening of basic security. In families with children, this government will be remembered for restricting the right to day care and raising group sizes, which, above all, make it difficult for children from disadvantaged families to participate in early childhood education. Here too, children are divided on the basis of their own parents’ backgrounds, and it describes the unequal policy that this government is systematically pursuing. We know that high-quality early childhood education increases the welfare of the child and prevents exclusion and is thus one of the most productive investments a welfare state can make. Every child must have the right to early childhood education regardless of the work situation of his or her parents. The objective should be free early childhood education. The first steps towards this could be the extension of free pre-school education to five-year-olds and the provision of part-time early childhood education free of charge for all. Mr President! In many families, the cost of secondary education will also become real in the autumn. Finland should be an equal, free-of-charge country. However, the Union of High School Students has recently calculated that going to high school as a whole can cost up to 2,600 euros. The costs of vocational training can also move in thousands of euros. According to the youth barometer published early in the year, one in four dropouts of secondary education are due to a shortage of money. We are well aware of how difficult it is to find employment without the education of others today, and in the future education will become even more important. No one should miss out on education for lack of money. We need free secondary education for everyone. The funding of youth workshops is at the level of the budget proposal over the past year, which is not in line with the increase in the number of workshop participants. On the other hand, the government is already pushing down the workshop with the social welfare reform. In practice, the government's actions will result in only 5 to 7 workshops from 270 workshops being able to continue to operate in the future. Other workshops will also have to be driven down, and other solutions will have to be sought.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u312	Mr President! The state budget for next year will not smile. This yellow book adds to the inequality. Unfortunately, the government's value choices will weaken the purchasing power of the lowest-incomed also next year. In many families laughter has disappeared as a result of economic conditions. A lot of homes have tough times. The index freezes made by the Board of Directors will continue next year, targeting all basic security benefits. New index freezes will cut basic security by around EUR 68 million next year. The beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and national pensions are the most affected. All other previous cuts and 30% increases in social welfare and health care customer fees remain in effect. In total, the government has cut EUR 700 million this period from the livelihood of small people. The government will not correct the EUR 20 million cut it made last year in reimbursements for diabetes medicines. The Government will not correct its increase in travel allowances of EUR 11.2 million for the sick in 2016. The Government is not going to correct the EUR 12.5 million withdrawal of the pharmaceutical allowance. The government does not intend to refund the allowance for coeliac disease or the EUR 70 million cut it has made to study aid. Mr President! I meet a lot of pensioners and today I received a letter to this Parliament — a letter that concerns a retired woman about having enough money after buying medicines and food. In his case, the transfer of services to the Internet means that the services are fleeing. He can't afford to get online, let alone buy a computer. Low-income pensioners in every corner of our country suffer from the same difficulties: money is not enough for housing, food, medicines and social welfare and other necessities. One of the pharmacists had been told that you would go to the flea market and sell things so that you could buy your medicine. The situation of low-income pensioners will not be corrected by economic growth or employment gains. The tide doesn't lift all the boats. We need action. Mr President! In Finland, the state finances have become in a negative state due to the excessive demands of the rich. The income and property of the rich have increased. This is the result of preferential tax reductions, in particular for those on good income. The Sipilä board is loose for the well-paid and tight for the low-income. At the same time as the income of the rich increases, the wages, pensions and social benefits of the low-income have remained unchanged or decreased. Government parties only answer pensioners: the state's money is not enough, you have to take care of yourself. ‘Anyone who is given, and who is not, shall be excluded from this. “ This is what Matthew says in the Gospel, and this verse can be compared to the politics of the Sipilä government. The Matthew effect means the accumulation of benefits for those who already have them: the rich have been given money, the poor have been taken. The government has taken on debt to compensate for taxes that it has not dared to collect from the richest citizens. The Centre Party, the National Coalition Party, have operated on pensioners who did not want to increase the taxation of large income distributions in This thinking must be reversed in the parliamentary elections next spring. I hope that pensioners with low incomes will give their vote to the Social Democrats and thus have a positive impact on their own future. The tide doesn't lift all the boats. We need an SDP that'll push all the boats out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u313	Mr President! There was a recent debate here on agriculture and food production. In this respect, it is worth recalling what all the major structural changes in this situation were due to. Of course, the sanctions imposed by Russia, which affected the whole of the European Union, caused a major market disturbance, so that we, for example, had to stop exporting dairy products to Russia completely. This was also the case for all other exporting countries to Russia. Well, of course, it caused a major market disturbance, which inevitably reduced prices for perishable products. For example, for us in the Nordic countries, onions were imported from the Netherlands at approximately the price of cargo, since waste disposal fees in the Netherlands are higher than freight. In other words, it was cheaper for producers to import these products at the price of freight to Finland and other Nordic countries. Of course, this was the root cause, and it made it possible, for example, to lower prices for Valio and other establishments receiving milk. And now that it's the second bad year, it's brought its own pressure on the producers. That is why it is important for the government to meet with these presentations. We all know, however, that these government measures and the European Union's measures will by no means be sufficient to bring these losses to an end, that is to say, the need for a better price to be paid on the market. Well, of course, it is not a very simple thing in a market economy. We know that both we and the rest of the Nordic countries have large chains of stores. However, the structure is such that nothing prevents us from having some new chains of shops. Unfortunately, however, it is only the case that, if we suddenly come up here, they are the large trading groups that are already in Europe, which then bring their own trading units to the major cities, in this case here in southern Finland, and their purchases are largely based on buying what is most advantageous. Of course, in the current trade structure, it is important that the food market law that is being prepared will eliminate the bad trade practices, so that farmers as well as food processors are directly involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u314	Mr President! That was the day when it was said that there was nothing good in next year's budget and budget. I did not get the opportunity to say at the time, but I say in this context that those police funds, insofar as they are allocated to sparsely populated areas, are a good thing. We've got one in Lapland. The municipality of Enontekiö was completely without the police, and it is an incomprehensible situation that there is no police in such a large municipality. So this is a fact in today's Finland. It is clear that the threshold for people to contact the police, even in the smallest or larger case, is rising because it is known that they do not exist in the countries and that the response times are really long before the police are there at all. I now hope that by allocating the few dollars to the police, this Enontekio business will be all right. Well, then the second point was these road appropriations, which I would like to address. Indeed, this was incomprehensible when we discovered that the parliamentary working group unanimously proposed that additional funding for reducing the road and rail repair debt should be continued, but for this purpose exactly EUR zero had been allocated. So the investments in the infrastructure remain with the next government. However, Prime Minister Sipilä himself has proved to be quite a bridge drum politician. I looked at the funding for this parliamentary term in Oulu, and there is the Hailuoto Bridge, the repair money for Highway 4 to the end of Oulu and the deepening of the port of Oulu. These will make a total of EUR 181 million, but at the same time I ask where the money from other regions is. It can't be like this. They're taking everyone to Oulu, they're wheeling them, but they're not. Sweden has a long-term transport policy of at least 12 years and has received 17 times the EU funding compared to Finland. It is really not that we do not have needs. There are plenty of roads in the province, but we have the government snooping around with individual projects instead of taking these entities forward at national level. I hope — and now I believe that we need — that efforts will be made to improve the mobility of people and business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u315	Mr President! The economy is growing and employment is improving. The government is reaching a 72% employment rate. This means that almost 120,000 people have found a job during this reign. The population is huge and corresponds to almost half of the population of my home town of Tampere. In addition to the fact that employment has certainly been a big and important issue for each unit, employment is, of course, always reflected in the family and close circle that have been employed. Employment brings better income and better quality of life. I also welcome the fact that the state budget proposal for next year before us is based on responsible financial management. The Government has not taken part in electoral populism, but has continued to work towards a strong and stable economy in Finland. Only a well-managed economy can safeguard Finnish well-being in the long term. When the government began its term, the central government deficit was considerably higher than now and has been significantly reduced, and if the next government also remains in line with responsible financial management, the debt of the state will cease to exist in Finland in 2021. The balancing of the economy has been achieved in such a way that the taxation of any employee or entrepreneur has not increased during this parliamentary term. I also welcome the fact that, at a time when the economy has been managed responsibly so that the welfare society can be cared for in the long term, important investments have been made in the future. For example, next year around EUR 112 million will be added to research, development and innovation. Support for young researchers, the growing cooperation between research and business, and the acceleration of exports are the very measures to ensure that Finns survive in international competition. The focus on excellence and research should continue in the future, as education and knowledge provide the basis for Finland’s future success. In addition to the economy and employment as well as the whole of competence, security is an important theme in parliamentary work this autumn and continuously. The Government will invest in defence and internal security next year. A hundred new posts will be set up in the Defence Forces to strengthen the capability of the Defence Forces to operate, the training of military forces and the development of new defence capabilities, such as cyber defence. The number of police officers can be increased with new posts. This means that, especially in the sparsely populated area, the police will be more quickly present when there is an emergency. The Government also directs support for the Ankkuri activities of the police, which aim to prevent the marginalisation of children and young people in cooperation with police, youth and social work and schools in particular. Mr President! In this speech, I would like to add a few more things to the joy of employment, the economy and security. There are many of these joys in this budget, but as a barefoot Tampereer and Chairman of the Pirkanmaa Regional Council, I am particularly pleased that the government has now taken seriously the development of high-speed train connections between urban areas. Increasing railway capacity between Tampere and Helsinki is a particularly important project for the whole country. It speeds up the journey from the Helsinki Metropolitan Area to Oulu and Rovaniemi and enables local and local transport connections to be developed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u316	Mr President! The Government has launched the Healthy Spaces Action Programme 2028 with the aim of promoting health and well-being in public spaces, developing sustainable building and maintenance practices and ensuring the prevention of indoor air problems. However, now that this budget and the texts and figures in the field of environmental management here are looking at, there are no objectives here to address the indoor air problems of our day-care centres, schools and social and health care buildings. At the moment, we in Finland have a really terrible problem, which affects all municipalities, a very large number of citizens, and definitely this budget should have a financing model for municipalities as to how we can renovate these basic services in the municipalities. We are currently in a situation where most of the buildings were built in the 50s to 60s. They're already 60 years old. Properties built in the 1970s are already about 48 years old and built in the 80s are already in the early 40s. Once and for all, they have reached the end of their journey. They have been corrected by what has been achieved, and now they should be dismantled and all new ones built. And it lacks funding and objectives in this book altogether.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u317	Mr President! As an addition to the previous speech, when the time was running out, there were a few joys about the budget. In this way, it is particularly important in the aftermath of Finland’s 100th anniversary celebrations to take into account the fact that good society takes care of its honorable citizens. It is absolutely excellent that the new legislation will now allow front veterans to have the same home-based services as war veterans, irrespective of their place of residence. Also an investment savings account for a small investor to encourage Finnish ownership is an excellent and welcome reform. After all, Finns have traditionally considered thrift to be a virtue, and when Finns have a lot of money in bank accounts after it has been saved, this encourages small-scale investor awareness. An advanced policy is also that sustainable development has now been taken into account in the draft budget as a broadly cross-cutting principle for the whole budget. The euro is the most effective means of promoting sustainable development. The Government has also outlined a three-year Baltic Sea programme, which has now been allocated EUR 15 million. And this summer, if ever, the protection of water bodies and the need for it have come to light. There, too, on the tax side, the taxation of low incomes will be reduced by EUR 100 million. Tax reduction is the best way to improve the position of low-income earners, because it means that even with a lower salary, it is worth taking up jobs, as more and more of the euro that is earned will be left to you and will not go to the tax office and then you can decide for yourself what to do with the income that is left in your hands. The total tax rate will also decrease by 2 percentage points during this parliamentary term. In other words, the overall budget is very responsible, even though the elections are approaching. We have not gone into recklessness and yet we have been able to take important targets into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u318	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u319	Mr President! Thank you. I did ask for the floor when the previous speaker spoke. I would also like to highlight what Mr Ojala-Niemelä said about these investments in transport and the lack of reparation debt in this budget. It's really serious. For example, in Eastern Finland, where the transport of fire, forest industry and wood supply means life in the province, new jobs, business activity, but at the same time the growth of heavy goods transport places additional demands on the condition of our highways, on the crossroads. This is definitely something that needs to be changed to this budget book, so I hope that the government will listen to Parliament and to the proposals that will certainly come from here on this matter of debt correction. The transport infrastructure, both roads and tracks, is our Finnish vascular system, which is vitally important now to renovate. Last winter was the worst winter in 20 years. It may be that another such thing is coming, and our efforts are not going to last.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u320	Mr President! As Mr Taavijainen said, it is important that the road network is in order. It is important, for example, for industry, for our exports, for people's safety. I welcome the fact that there has been a parliamentary agreement on how to deal with the debt of correction and on how to turn the situation into a better one and that it will also be put into practice. However, I would like to remind you that this correction debt has been incurred over the decades. All parties in the government have had their own opportunities to seize it and go and correct it. Of course, it is not true that this is a matter for this government alone, because we are talking about a long-term correction debt, and that requires parliamentary agreement over the parliamentary term that our road network should be maintained. Another issue that must not be put against the roads is the railways, and there the most important project in Finland is to increase railway capacity between Tampere and Helsinki. It is a project for the whole of Finland. Almost half of the Finns live in the affected area, and it is important for other rail projects that before other connections can be developed, more capacity must be provided urgently for the main line's most operational connection, which already has the highest traffic volumes and continues to increase and the capacity is at the end and in poor condition and the current shifts cannot be run undisturbed. It is an advantage for the whole of Finland's economy and employment, not to mention that it makes life easier for countless people every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u321	Mr President! Power always gives you a chance to act. So there's no reason to blame what's been done before. Now the keys to power are in hand, and the money we need to restore our roads and railways can be added to this budget book. Unfortunately, the road paving appropriations allocated by the state are already around EUR 6 million lower this year than, for example, last year for my region of South Savo, North Savo and North Karelia. In Etelä-Savo, for example, the forest grows best in the whole of Finland, but the forest cannot be harvested there, the wood cannot be transported to factories unless we have the roads in order. In other words, this so-called repair debt has hardly been available for these paving sites even this year, and now next year the situation is getting worse again. In other words, in my own region, for example, the debt of repair and poor roads are growing by several hundred kilometres each year, and this situation must definitely be changed in this budget reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u322	Mr President! We must thank the Government very much for taking up this need for additional railway capacity between Helsinki and Tampere and in its draft budget for planning it, which means that the planning will be carried out in such a way that the next government, when the plan is in place, will then be able to take decisions and hopefully also receive EU money for this project. That is to say, Mr Taavitsainen, that, fortunately, all the appropriations for this project do not yet have to be in this book, provided that there is sufficient money for planning, because the rail projects must be designed first before the actual financing decisions can be taken, but the next government has now made good money for planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u323	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention, for my part, to this situation in rail transport. We have a rail network in Finland, as in the case of rail networks in general, in poor condition, and this kind of repair debt should also be raised in the case of railways. In many provinces, the current rail network is in such a condition that the maintenance money must be put into it so that the need for industry and heavy traffic on the tracks can be dealt with. Many ports need investment in rail transport. Then there are these big rail projects, which I would like to emphasise myself. This year we have had a debate on the Itärata project, then we have the Tampere connection to the north and then the Turun rauta. I would see that there are three important directions in Finland to which rail transport from Helsinki will go — east, west and north — and these major projects will then be exported in the future. However, the most acute situation is at present in these existing, existing rail tracks and in their maintenance and capacity building and putting in place that rail transport will continue to be a competitive option in the future. All in all, investments must be made in the corridors and, of course, in this government's draft budget they have been taken into account quite nicely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u324	Mr President! That speaker, Mr Pakkanen, was able to open my own speechary coffin. It is vital to get that main line to Oulu as well as Rovaniemi, so that it becomes a real alternative to air traffic. Now we could increase that speed up north. Then we have other transport needs in the north. The electrification of the Kolari track would be of paramount importance for tourism, as would this Laurila-Tornio track. It is a short 17-km stretch, and it would take EUR 20 million, but it seems that again, in this budget debate, the money was exhausted. It would combine Finnish and Swedish lines, and in that way it would also have cross-border international influence. I believe that by adding those double tracks, many plugs could be removed from that main route.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u325	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Pakkanen that Eastern Finland needs an eastern track. It would reduce travel time from Mikkeli to Helsinki, from Lappeenranta to Helsinki, from Imatra, from Kouvola to Helsinki. The St. Petersburg-Helsinki interval would also improve and increase trade. At the same time as this eastern track is being planned — it would be a question of connecting Kouvola and Porvoo on the track — the Savo track must be constantly refurbished so that trains can run faster there, so that accessibility will also be improved. However, we have almost a million people living in Eastern Finland and, as I said earlier in my speech, we have the best forest growth, we have a lot of forest-based industries. For example, in my own town, Mikkeli, is the largest plywood factory in Europe. We have many tourist attractions in Saimaa. We have colleges, border crossings. So Eastern Finland needs good and fast transport connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u326	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the debate can continue, the debate on budget referrals, but because of the eleven speeches that have just been made on transport and only because of that, we still have a separate debate on the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. But, of course, this debate will continue as much as we want to continue. — Representative Pakkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u327	Thank you, Mr President. It is not intended to prolong the evening unnecessarily, and I assume that this is the last speech, at least on the road. These local projects were raised here, and of course it is always up to the representatives of the region to remind them of them, and I would therefore also like to mention the Kotolahti railway yard project in Kotka, which would enable the port traffic in the Kotka-Hamina region to be updated. Then there is the need for a small piece of double track between Kouvola-Kotka and then from Kouvola to Savo, as Mr Taavitsainen said. We should renovate these existing tracks in order not to cause these unfortunate accidents, as happened in the direction of Lake Vuohi when the wagons are being stored on the tracks. It would be appropriate to keep these wagons in port areas. In that sense, this railway yard in Kotolahti, Kotka, is an important issue, so that in the next few years it can now be put in place so that all in all, this situation in Eastern Finland can be corrected, because the crucial question is how ports run. There is heavy traffic, both in the forest industry and in others, and traffic passes through the ports from Finland to the world and, on the other hand, goods come into the ports from the world. In that sense, I particularly want to raise this Kotka-Hamiina port connection and, as a south-eastern Finn, the railways. On the road, then, we have a matter of our own, and I am sure that tomorrow's debate will lead to that debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-18-ps-85.u328	Mr President! Just for a moment, I would have taken that ice-sea track. Thank you, Minister Berner, for putting this question to the task force. It had five different track options, and now is a track from Sodankylä to Kirkkonniemi. We must have visions, even though there are needs anyway, but such visions over many decades. Yes, I see strongly that Finland needs that connection to the Arctic Ocean. It would serve both the extractive industry, the forest industry and the food industry. We are currently carrying a lot of salmon along Highway 21 all the way to Helsinki and from here to Asia for a transfer. In the future, it would be good to get these transportations from that road to the railways. This is a purely security issue. Of course, it would also link European transport when the Tallinn tunnel was created. There would always be access from Central Europe to the Arctic Ocean along the tracks. I believe that it would have a strong business policy significance for Finland and would bring a little cheering up here in the Nordic countries as well.
