ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind you once again that this is a question time for the opposition in particular, and that is why the issues of the opposition parties are at stake, even this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u2	The first question is asked by Mrs Marin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u3	Mr President! The report of the International Climate Panel (IPCC), published on Monday, will be a serious emergency call by researchers for the future of mankind. The 1.5-degree global warming limit agreed in the Paris climate agreement is already being exceeded by the current measures as early as 2040. Finns born this year, like my own daughter, are 22 years old at the beginning of their lives. The emission targets must therefore be corrected and emissions cut further with a very urgent timetable. The Finnish Climate Panel also believes that the level of ambition of our climate policy needs to be significantly increased. The current actions of the government are simply not enough. So I ask Minister Tiilikainen: is the Government correcting Finland's emission reduction targets in the direction recommended by the Finnish Climate Panel, and what new measures is proposed by the Government to achieve these targets?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u4	Mr President! This is an extremely important and topical issue. Indeed, the assumption of that IPCC report next week is that it will say a reasonable amount of greetings as to whether it is even possible to achieve a temperature of 1.5°C, and then we need to start discussions quickly on how to ensure that even that two-degree target is possible. The Finnish Government has made a very ambitious climate policy: at national level, it has promoted the strengthening of the EU's objectives and has actively participated in the creation of an international climate agreement. At the same time, it has to be said that these measures are not enough either. That is why our message is at the mouth of both myself and the Prime Minister: we need to do more and we need to do more faster. It is quite clear that climate policy will have enough to do after the good foundation of this government, both for the next and the next, and for many governments for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u5	The Green Parliamentary Group also has a climate change issue. Let's just take that question right here, and then we'll go and debat. — Here you are, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u6	Mr President! It is indeed the case that, in order for children and schoolchildren today to have a future, climate change must be contained to about one and a half degrees. This means that the emissions from developed countries, including Finland, must be negative by the middle of the century. In other words, our carbon sinks must be greater than our emissions. We've got to give up fossils before this. We Greens are proposing to set a timetable for abandoning fossil fuels, for the next decade not only to abandon coal, which the government is flagging, but also to abandon peat and, in the 2030s, to abandon fossil oil and natural gas in transport. In addition, we must drive down subsidies that favour the use of fossil energy. Is the government ready for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u7	Mr President! The Government is extremely committed to pursuing ambitious climate targets. You can see that from this issue of the ban on coal mentioned by the questioner, which is now coming to the House shortly. Hard coal will be disposed of in Finland by 2029. What else? Just as the questioner said, it is urgent to drive down fossil energy sources even after coal. In fact, instead of taking the path of individual bans, it is important that we have a coherent, EU-wide and global policy. Emissions trading is definitely the most effective tool to drive all fossils down when it is possible to choose between fossil and renewable without major investment. We therefore propose that emissions trading within the EU should be strengthened and extended to cover as much emissions as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. First of all, of course, to those who asked the main question, that is to say to Mrs Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u9	Mr President! Global warming averages one-and-a-half degrees for countries close to the planet's polar regions, such as Finland, up to five degrees. It is therefore in our interest that the climate action of the countries of the world is adequate and forward-looking. Our route to the global climate crisis is not only about our own actions, but also about the European Union. It is therefore in Finland's interest that the climate issue will be strongly on the agenda next year when Finland is the EU Presidency. In the opinion of the SDP, Europe must be a leader in the fight against climate change and Finland must be more active within the European Union to achieve this. I ask the government: how is the climate issue reflected in the preparations for the EU Presidency and in Finland's objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u10	Mr President! Solving the climate issue is, of course, one of the most important issues in the European Union's common policy. The European Union is a major actor in climate policy and now, in the forthcoming climate negotiations in Katowice, the EU must play a very leading role if we are to be able to implement the Paris Agreement, which has already been adopted a few years ago. Finland has a very active grip on the European Union with several ministers, most recent examples such as myself and Minister of Transport Berner's initiatives to tighten vehicle emission limits. Where do consumers get low-emission vehicles if manufacturers are not forced to produce them? On many fronts – I have already referred to the initiative to extend emissions trading – we are working within the EU. Finland has become a member of the EU's ambitious and active climate actors during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u11	And Minister Orpo will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u12	Mr President! It is good to continue with that when Minister Tiilikainen described to the EU level what is being done. Finland also makes a very ambitious global climate policy. In fact, there will be a good forum for it next week: Finland is the Presidency of the World Bank and the IMF Annual Meeting. As such, I am allowed to speak there. It will focus very strongly on calling for action to combat climate change. Produce proposals on carbon pricing and the introduction of sustainable development budgeting in different countries of the world and also present the technology solutions that we in Finland and the Nordic countries have taken to achieve a low carbon society. In other words, the sum summarum, Finland operates very ambitiously at all levels, globally, at EU level and at domestic level, to combat the greenhouse effect and climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u13	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen, you completely ignored the amount of approximately EUR 1 billion that Finland is now using every year for subsidies which in practice favour the use of fossil fuels. I will return to the fact that, by the middle of the century, Finland's carbon sinks and ways of removing carbon from the atmosphere must be greater than our emissions. This means, among other things, that carbon sinks in forests and soils must be grown. You can't let them count. Today, however, logging is the forest owner’s only means of earning income from his forest. Is the government prepared to consider solutions to create an incentive for forest owners and also farmers to increase the carbon content of forests, forest land and fields, and to consider, for example, reorienting Kemera subsidies or using auction revenues for emissions trading to do so, or to promote the use of fossil fuels, for example, of some EUR 1 billion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u14	Mr President! Mr Hassi's question may give an occasional listener the impression that we have a line in the yellow budget book about billions of subsidies for fossil fuels. That is not the case. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u15	Let us always take one ministerial answer, alternately from those who feel the need to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u16	Mr President! Economic instruments are extremely important when considering ways of reducing CO2 emissions. Transport is an important source of greenhouse gas emissions. Transport accounts for 20 per cent of Finland, and road transport accounts for 90 per cent of it. Finland’s strategy is in biofuels. However, researchers have found that this is only possible for ten years. Other means must be found to reduce CO2 emissions. The proposals should therefore already be on the table. Important measures are the reduction of transport needs and the electrification of transport. Tax reforms have been proposed as a quick means, for example to electrify company cars. Does the government intend to do this? What, then, about such a more extensive tax reform to reverse the trend?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u17	Madam President! At the moment, there is a working group in the Ministry of Transport and Communications which is preparing an idea of how we could be fully carbon neutral in transport by 2045 at the latest. It is also clear that we need solutions to ensure that all new cars are acquired by 2030 with new or alternative power. This requires various measures. The electrification of transport is one of the key measures and, in this respect too, together with Minister Tiilikainen, we in the EU have also contributed to the fact that, among other things, all public procurement of vehicles is powered by electronic power. Here too, we will need measures for tax reform, both carrots and sticks, and we will have a prepared proposal by December.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u18	Madam President! Finns deserve to know how ambitious climate action parties commit themselves to. The present will-force of the government parties, including next year's budget book, and the attitude towards the severity of climate change are not enough. Although things are being said in the right direction, the magnitude must be more ambitious. People's concerns about the progress of climate change are growing and, at the same time, the demands for concrete political action are growing. Because if we are not serious, all other political measures will lose their meaning. Stopping and slowing down climate change is neither easy nor free, but it still has to be done. I ask the whole government: what is your due date for fossil fuels, other than coal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u19	Madam President! As far as the ambition of the government's climate policy is concerned, I dare say that the level of ambition has been very high. As an example, I have just been informed that in 2015 Finland was ranked 32 — you were then in government — and now 9 — in the comparison of 60 countries to promote climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u20	Madam President! In the name of climate policy, ambitious targets have been set for transport and, in order to achieve these objectives, we need more policy instruments for the purchase of low-emission cars and public transport and sustainable transport in urban areas, rail transport, walking and cycling, require their own measures. In various places the government has been acclaiming a programme to promote walking and cycling. Minister Berner has pointed out that increasing walking and cycling by 20% would bring health benefits of around EUR 4 billion and that transport emissions could be reduced by 0.3 million tonnes — significant figures. You have also identified 31 different measures to proceed with this programme to promote walking and cycling. This work, which has been much discussed and prepared together with the various actors, you were supposed to start with:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u21	Madam President! The walking and cycling programme has received a very good reception and has been carried out in close cooperation with a broad stakeholder group. In fact, all of these measures have been taken, and for municipalities, the first small-scale walking and cycling projects have also been launched. I am sure they will need more money in the future, but the contributions that have also been made by our parliamentary working group, which has been part of this preparation, have been made, and the money has also been there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u22	Mr President! Climate policy and environmental policy are also an important part of Finland's foreign policy. The Paris climate agreement will not come about unless not only the EU, but also the major powers, especially the United States and Russia, commit themselves to an ambitious climate policy. You, Minister Soini, have just returned from New York from the UN General Assembly and have met your colleagues. What have you done to encourage the USA and Russia to come to this ambitious front for the implementation of the Paris climate agreement, and what is your assessment of the commitment of these countries at the moment, and how could Finland be even more active in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u24	Madam President! The Finnish General Assembly's statement strongly highlighted climate issues and international multi-centre, rule-based cooperation. It is also very important that both the United States and Russia ratify this agreement. Now Russia has also proposed duubies on this. This is an extremely serious matter. More generally, it seems that Europe and the European Union are the only major players, and China, Russia and the United States seem to be moving away from international rule-based cooperation, which is also the Paris climate agreement. Finland must be involved in the front line, which promotes what has been committed to, it is also being respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u25	Mr President! The subject under discussion is very important and I would like to address it specifically from the perspective of Finnish work, entrepreneurship and industry. After all, Finnish companies and industry are currently working very ecologically well, and it can actually be said that Finnish work is a real ecological act. However, there is now a risk that, with these too strict emission restrictions, we are threatening to drive Finnish industry into countries where emission restrictions are actually not complied with at all. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: what measures does the government intend to take to keep Finnish work, entrepreneurship and industry in Finland instead of expelling them to countries where pollution is allowed and, in fact, everyday?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u26	Mr President! The threat described by Mr Immonen was real perhaps 10 to 15 years ago, but a lot of decisions have been taken since then to alleviate that threat. For example, the European Union's emissions trading system is equally strict in every single EU Member State, whether it be Finland or Poland or Bulgaria, the same rules apply. The Paris Agreement has also introduced an emissions trading system in other parts of the world, including even China, in order to avoid the cost of carbon dioxide emissions and unfair competition. In addition, we have other measures in the Government Programme to ensure that energy-intensive industries are able to compete internationally and also have the right to free allowances at the level of the best operators. This is an important point of view that we do not create unfair competition, and that was the last thing I talked about a few days ago at the WTO meeting in Geneva.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u27	And Minister Lintilä's brief supplement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u28	Madam President! I can tell Mr Immonen that none of the companies that are approaching me on energy-related issues have indicated that they are seeking etabolization out of Finland because of these limits. They go to me and tell me that they have new plans, they see certain limitations as their own opportunities, and they search for new forms of energy. In Finland, restrictions have been introduced in a certain way as a new competitive advantage compared to other partners, and I very much value Finnish companies that are willing to invest in the innovations that reduce their own energy consumption and bring them into renewable energies. So in that respect I can tell the representative that worry about it, yes, in Finland, companies will stay and develop.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u29	Madam President! An occasional listener could understand from Mr Tiilikainen's reply to Mr Hassi that we do not have any business subsidies that are harmful to the environment and the climate. Yes, there are many lines in this yellow book, and that is essential because when we talk about controlling climate change, we have to look at the impact of all measures on the atmosphere. That's why you can't ignore the question of carbon sinks. At the moment, our emissions would be half as high without the sink we currently have, and that is why it is necessary to increase the sink, not to reduce it, as the government is doing. The government's own report to the UN tells us that our carbon sinks will be reduced, even halved, by the time we go to the 30s, and this halve will nullify all other, even ambitious, emission reduction measures. If other sectors need to compensate for the reduction in carbon sinks, these measures will become unduly burdensome. You cannot say that you are making an ambitious climate policy if you bypass the question of sinkholes. Are you finally ready to change the direction of your forestry policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u30	Mr President! Indeed, I am starting with the fact that all fossil energy is taxed and some forms are taxed even harder. Finland is definitely one of the highest-taxing countries for fossil energy. So much for these fossil subsidies. But as far as carbon sinks are concerned, I share the questioner’s concern about the importance of sinks. As I said earlier, we need more forests and better-growing forests globally and also in Finland, and in order to ensure forest growth, it is important that the age structure and management level of forests are maintained in such a way that growth is strong, so that this sink is generated and that it is also possible to use wood as a raw material. Wood as a raw material is used to save the world from plastics and non-renewable raw materials, not to destroy the world. In this case, it is the long tendon that is important, and that is why the government's objective of carbon neutrality in 2045, when emissions and sinks are in balance, also represents a peak in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u31	Irade the Talman! At European level, about half of our primary resources are spent on buildings and construction. About half of our waste and about 40% of our CO2 emissions come from the buildings. So it matters what and how we build. We also know that between 5% and 7% of global CO2 emissions come from the concrete industry. On the other hand, a kilo of wood binds about 1.8 kilos of carbon dioxide. However, wood construction in Finland is not yet as common as it should be, and in particular massive wood construction, which is an extremely good way of building from a carbon storage point of view, is very rare. I ask the Minister: how would we get into the situation of looking not at the theoretical E-number in general for wood construction or construction, but at the carbon footprint throughout the life cycle of the building? It would favour massive construction, which is sustainable and very refurbishable and very recyclable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u32	Mr President! Mr Adlercreutz's question is very good and important in the sense that too often when it comes to controlling climate change, it is only about energy. Even if all energy is produced with renewable energy, it is not enough for the long term, but we need solutions to the circular economy. We need a solution to the fact that production of steel, aluminium, plastics and concrete in the world if we continue according to current forecasts, which already exceeds the sustainable carbon budget, that is, we will not be able to meet the Paris targets. That is why it is important to promote the construction of wood, and other measures to reduce the carbon footprint of construction. At the Ministry of the Environment, we have started work to ensure that the carbon footprint you have just described over the entire life cycle of the building is a building-guided standard rather than individual energy efficiency regulations. And the fire protection order that restricted the construction of wood, which requires double protection, has already been partially dismantled. So in a sprinkled house, you can also see the wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u33	Madam President! I am pleased that there are people in this Chamber who feel exactly the same way about combating climate change, just as there are Finns. We are even on the same track between the government and the opposition. Thank you, Minister. A brick band for good work and also a government for good work, both here and here in Finland and in international fields. Minister Tiilikainen, carbon sinks and their growing are an important part of the fight against climate change, and Finland is certainly one of the world's leading countries in forest management. Few countries have seen forest growth double since the 1970s. My question is this: in the fight against climate change, we could strengthen the export of forest know-how, but how?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u34	Mr President! Indeed, Finland is known in the world not only for its high level of expertise and technology, but also for its very high environmental competence and long tradition of sustainable forest management. We therefore have all the prerequisites for exporting it abroad, and there is research cooperation between universities, for example. In fact, the idea that carbon sinks need to be strengthened globally will certainly also increase demand for Finnish forest know-how, because when it comes to afforestation and better forest management, many times colleagues look to Finland. We need to strengthen our own expertise and also encourage people who are trained in the field to boldly take up international tasks, because Finnish competence really is in demand in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u35	Mr President! It is important that we talk about climate change. It is the greatest threat of our time and, fortunately, it has come to light not only in our countries but also elsewhere. It is regrettable, however, that there are still forces in the world that fight it with all their might. Urbanisation is a global megatrend, and it is also happening in Finland at an accelerating pace. It has been said that climate change will be resolved in cities. In the future, we will have a major challenge in Finland both to invest in urban public transport solutions and at the same time to take care of our extensive road network. Has the government considered how to resolve this issue in the future, because in times of tight economic management municipalities are also faced with the fact that the money is not enough for all investments?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u36	Madam President! In many of the discussions I have had with cities, I have often said that it is very important that cities commit themselves to more ambitious emission reduction solutions than the average state is committed to so that together we can achieve the goals we have set. One possible tool and tool we can use in this context is the MAL agreements between the state and cities, which are increasingly aimed at supporting the city in the development of emission reduction solutions. At the same time, our legislation will, of course, also make it possible to create solutions for better public transport and entire transport chains and to improve the ability of cities to compete for transport solutions. And then the rail investments, which we have also discussed a great deal, will also make it possible for us to create a new kind of infrastructure. Of course, solutions and discussions are still needed to finance it, but overall, this is a theme that is being tackled in cooperation with cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u37	Let us take two further questions, and these go to the groups that launched this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u38	Madam President! Climate change is a major concern for people and we need to find different solutions to combat it. One of the key points is to tackle food waste, and we must thank Minister Lepänen, who has done a great deal of work on this now, also by this government, and many of us colleagues have been involved in this. After all, in Finland, 450 million pounds of edible food goes into the garbage, and the food waste generated by consumers alone is equivalent to the emissions of over 100,000 cars, that is, a very big and significant issue. Now has set a goal that until 2030 the food waste will be halved, and I think it is good that this sort of goal has been set, but I would still ask those concrete steps to achieve this. I know that, for example, labelling and others will now be examined in Parliament this autumn. I would be interested to hear more about these, because this is certainly a major step forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u39	Madam President! The questioner is absolutely right that waste food is the biggest food waste that can be. Each of our citizens should also look in the mirror and look at our own operating models to see how food waste is from the point of view. These measures have been and will be taken. One important thing is that we have excellent examples in Finland, such as mass meals, public meals. This is what I hope for, and that is what we have also promoted in the Ministry on the Government's behalf, the introduction of these good examples all over Finland, and it will also allow us to lose further. Industry has taken this very seriously in its own activities. Trade has also introduced a number of new means that have been made possible, including the reassessment of the labelling of the last day of sale. We are also reforming our food law, in which this issue is strongly raised. This is also very much — as I started — a matter of attitude as to how to deal with this. Ultimately, it is a matter of respect for food. We know that there are people in the world who experience a shortage of food and we have plenty of it. This is something that we must always remember in all our activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u40	Mr President! The climate is changing because there is too much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and when we focus on how much emissions are generated, it is too often forgotten from the debate that it is also possible to get carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. That is why I would like to thank Mr Tiilikainen for the idea of a carbon sequestration exchange. We have an infinite global demand to get excess CO2 out of the atmosphere, but it lacks a market place. If we get the market price to buy out coal, who pays for that coal? Those who cause damage, those who emit emissions into the atmosphere. Just as in all other human activities, we must not cause economic damage to others, or, if we do, we are liable. In the future, we need a change in the way we think, in which emissions can only be generated if the same damage is taken out of the market and paid in this context. I therefore encourage the government to prepare a carbon sequestration exchange in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u41	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Vartia for this, that we both have a very long-term view of the importance of carbon sequestration in climate policy and the use of market instruments so that carbon sequestration can be made profitable, whether by technical solutions or in a verifiable way the permanent binding of carbon by natural processes, for example through increased forest growth. Indeed, action must certainly be taken at EU level, but we also have ideas as to why such matters cannot be tested on a small scale at national level. The time is not yet ripe for this, but this thought must be taken forward in good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u42	Next question, Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u43	Mr President! Citizens of an age who have grown up have worked hard to build a welfare state of a high standard of living in Finland, and they are grateful for these efforts. However, society rarely remembers the elderly in other words. A huge number of pensioners are quietly suffering from loneliness and poverty. Many of them cannot even afford medicines or adequate food. The care of the elderly is also in serious trouble. We read repeatedly how the old man has been forgotten in the same diapers for days. Unfortunately, these revealed cases are just the tip of the iceberg. My dear Minister, the Finns of Finland demand that you take swift action and concrete action. What are you going to do to safeguard the economic, mental and physical well-being of elderly Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u44	Mr President! A valuable question about the well-being of the elderly Finns, the other side of which is indeed the economic success that Mr Mattila is responsible for. On this point, I will simply say that this government has improved the position of the poorest elderly, for example, and of those who are not in employment in general. In your question, you also raised the issue of care services and stated that the public was only presenting the failure of the tip of the iceberg. However, I personally want to believe that it is not the tip of the iceberg, under which everything would be bad for the elderly in Finland. We have also succeeded in many things. A few weeks ago, a good debate was held in this Chamber on the gaps, one of which is that the dismantling of institutional care has not led to adequate provision of home care in the municipalities and that we still have things to do with family care and, above all, with new forms of housing. But I cannot agree with your impression, Mr President, that the news would only show the worst and even worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u45	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions about this theme to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u46	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his answer, but unfortunately the possible means, if they were there, are not very convincing, and the reform of social security must now fall into internal government controversy. At least this is what it looks like. [Heckling] However, the True Finns offer you a wide range of measures. We are proposing a significant tax reduction for pensioners and we are calling for a tax exemption for informal care support. We are also proposing to correct the folded index set by Lipponen's government for low- and middle-income pensioners. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u47	Mr President! You have put forward quite a number of issues on which more than one minister of responsibility could comment. On the issue of older people in general, but first of all on social reform: I believe that, as a representative of the Government, social reform is progressing in Parliament. A demanding, careful discussion is now taking place in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in good cooperation, and in due course the great Chamber will be able to make a decision to approve that proposal. As far as your proposal is concerned, I am well aware, Mr President, that we now have a government Question Time, but I would almost like to ask about your list, Mr President. The position of the Finns Party is a very large package also in euros, and it would of course be reasonable to hear how you would fund its ageing Finland, the low birth rate in the reality of Finland, especially when we recognise that solutions relating to care alone or the euro are not enough, but we need a bigger, age-political understanding of society as a whole and also a new kind of responsibility for neighbourliness, including organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u48	Madam President! However, on the basis of today's sentiments and public information, there is reason to doubt how good cooperation is being made. I am concerned about what is going on there — perhaps the lines are already in hand — and there has been a debate about Vaasa’s emergency services whether it will remain or not. But I would like to highlight these sites, which, Minister, you have just mentioned. I visited Kannus last weekend and it was said that they have been fighting with the health centre and with the facilities of the elderly for years and that perhaps Vimpel would be the place to be. So that's where I looked on the map, and that's almost 100 miles. We say here that the whole of Finland will be kept inhabited, but at the same time we will reduce these sites. Finland is ageing, and the elderly, the old population, remain in small places. What do we answer to these elderly ones? Where do they spend their last days then living that evening of their lives? Is it an unsafe home? Or is it possibly an establishment? What do you offer when you are not building 24-hour care?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u49	Mr President! Two major topics in the question of your representative Juvosen. First of all, I will correct your mistaken comment: Yes, there will be emergency services at Vaasa Hospital. As far as the reality of the elderly is concerned: as I said in my previous resistance — and I know that you know the everyday life of nursing — we have a lot to do with practice and many things need to be corrected. But until now I have been convinced that there is a broad common understanding in Parliament that our goal is to strengthen the share of services delivered to the home by all means and to dismantle institutional care as a solution that has been, as it were, normal practice in Finland. For months or even years, the health center’s ward may have been home to some. This is something that we have decided, in agreement with old people, to abandon. As far as larger structures are concerned, sometimes it may be that from the point of view of the elderly, for example, it is also a resource that we can already have.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u50	A supplementary question, Mr. Essayah. You also had the main question of this theme, but please at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u51	Madam President! The economic inequality of the elderly is particularly highlighted in social services, such as home care and its support services. Municipalities decide on the amount of these services, and they are not linked to income and are not included in the cap. The Christian Democrats have also promoted the Ombudsman for the Elderly. We have submitted an initiative for action because we would need an independent person to look at what these unequal situations in different municipalities are, and then, if necessary, to promote the elderly as an independent official. If we want to help and expect older people to be able to live in their homes for longer, the reform of the Consumer Payment Act will be absolutely central. Otherwise, basic services will escape economically beyond their reach, and it will cost many times as much in the use of special services. I would have asked the Minister: is it possible that in this reform of the Consumer Fees Act social services could also be included in such a way that they would be subject to such a ceiling,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u52	Mr President! As part of the big social welfare reform, we have argued that the Parliament will still be able to process a large total reform of the customer fee law during this parliamentary term. It is still not a complete whole of a wide range of payments that are levied on various activities in society as a share of ownership, but it clarifies much of the current situation in that we do not currently have an adequate picture of the way in which different municipalities, for example, are priced and included in housing services for the elderly. Now we bring all of these out of the regulations or the unclear situation to the level of the law. In the same context, for example, we will raise the income limits for home care in this proposal, and perhaps it is particularly important from the point of view of people on low incomes, both pensioners and others, that the law will clarify the criteria relating to the right of a person to be exempt from customer fees on the basis of his low income. But this presentation is still in preparation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u53	Madam President! It is a good thing that the Minister himself brought up the low incomes. Today, in fact, a THL report came out that government action has specifically contributed to the poverty of the elderly with low incomes. The government raised customer fees by almost 30 per cent the year before, and today's preliminary study by THL shows that at least 20,000 pensioners have fallen below the poverty line because of what the government has done this season. These calculations do not yet include private health contributions or medicines, i.e. the number of people falling below the poverty line is likely to be even higher than those found in these preliminary studies. The question is: what is the government going to do about this now? It is your own decisions to increase the number of low-income pensioners in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u54	Mr President! Yes, I share Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto's concern about the role of low-income pensioners in our society. The question has certainly not arisen during this parliamentary term alone, that a person who, during his career for one reason or another, has been able to accumulate only a small pension or who has been completely out of work is in a very tight financial situation. What can we do about this? For example, you referred to customer fees. It is true that they have been raised during this parliamentary term. Some municipalities have made that withdrawal, some have not. It is enshrined in the law as a kind of margin of manoeuvre. But at the same time, in response to the recent question, the new bill on customer fees will clarify the obligation to provide information on the possibility of obtaining relief or exemption, which is very important. As a second concrete answer, I would like to say to Mr Mattila that the total amount will be reduced from the beginning of next year. This is an important gesture for low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u55	Mr President! It is true what Minister Saarikko said that the government has increased the guarantee pension by a small amount, but at the same time you have forgotten about the pensioners who enjoy the national pension, who have actually been cut in the form of index ice during this period. These pensioners have been forgotten by the government. It is also true what Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said about social welfare and health care charges. You have raised them, and it has really made it more difficult for low-income pensioners and they are really below the poverty line at the moment. I would also have asked about this bill of customer fees, which, in the form of an overall reform, is coming to us in Parliament. Are you low incomes completely exempt from social welfare and health care charges? That would be the right direction, because prevention is the most important thing and it would be important for low-income people to have access to preventive care without any customer fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u56	Mr President! The answer is both yes and no. I'll start with the non-part. There is a long tradition in Finland that so-called health centre fees, nurse or doctor visits, or specialist fees are not income-related, but equal for all. The government has not considered giving up this principle in its proposal. However, as far as the reception of the health centre is concerned, there may be a very high income person or a very low income person, the obligation to inform the law about the possibility of obtaining a fee exemption will be clarified, because we know that these payments currently burden, for example, the income support system or the enforcement system, when there has been no possibility. In other words, there will be an improvement in the law from the point of view of people on low incomes, but we will insist that the starting point is that the fees are the same for all in health centres in the first place and that there is an opportunity to apply for exemption.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u57	Mr President! First of all, a quick question for the Minister: what kind of emergency services will be maintained at Vaasa Central Hospital? You said we'd stay on call. But when we talk about this increase in the guarantee pension for the most low-income people, plus EUR 9, did you calculate the impact of it, how it will turn out? In the case of the poorest, it cuts monthly income by EUR 12, and this is because the housing allowance is reduced on the one hand when this EUR 9 is given. I would like to know whether this matter has been taken into account earlier or not. Then from these customer fees: Why should social and health care payments be charged to private collection companies before they move, if they do, to voud? The use of private collection companies alone will increase the costs from these lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u58	Mr President! Here, too, there were two slightly separate areas. With regard to Vaasa, the representative's hometown, I think you know even better in concrete and practical terms what kind of emergency service is in Vaasa, and I say that the proposal adopted by the government and Parliament at the end of 2016 is the emergency service that has entered into force and, in accordance with its activities, is being lived in Vaasa. In my view, we have not received any significant criticisms of how the day-to-day work at the emergency clinic and the entire Vaasa Central Hospital has worked so far. The second part of your question is very important. I have also received feedback from social workers in cities, and I intend to go through that carefully now that the bill on customer fees is being reformed, how the practices of municipalities in this area are actually being implemented. The problem we face today is that there is not enough clear legislation on customer charges. Municipalities make rather independent decisions on how, for example, they are in charge of these inheritances in practice. In this respect, the concern of the representative is justified. I'll go along with that. I'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u59	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. We will certainly come back to this, it is also coming to Old Ages Week and in that sense the important issue will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u60	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u61	Mr President! In January, Minister of Labour Jari Lindström, you told me that you are not going to interfere in the protection of dismissal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u64	Madam President! No, it's not. We are not in the business of any representative organisation here; we are in the business of employment. The task is to lower the employment threshold in small enterprises, and the difficulty of dismissal affects the employment threshold. This is also a question of regulatory proportionality: to what extent a small employer can be required to maintain employment in a situation in which an employee acts in a significant way contrary to his obligations. The small employer is less able to bear the consequences of the individual employee’s reprehensible procedure. The vast majority of jobs are created in small businesses, which is why it is important to lower the employment threshold in small enterprises. This is an employment measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u65	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — This is not a very long time for this, because we still have one very short question, but let us take the representatives of Andersson, Rinne and Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u66	Mr President! As I hope the Minister of Labour knows well, the law already allows workers to be dismissed in both large and small companies if they do not carry out their duties. We also know that this weakening of the protection against dismissal will not increase employment. The government has not been able to present any findings supporting this claim. We know that even the Confederation of Finnish Industries sees problems here, so I know no one but the Government and the Finnish Entrepreneurs who drive this very hard. This change is justified by increasing labour market flexibility, but in fact this change will only bring flexibility to one party. For an employee, dismissal on a personal basis results in a degree of severity. Juha Sipilä has previously admitted that he considers three months of roughness to be unreasonable as a result of firing, but what was the government’s solution within the framework of this so-called compromise? You're the one who cut back on the carnage for one month.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u67	Madam President! Quite a language has been used in this regard. It has been said that this is a question of face-to-face legislation or arbitrary legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u68	Mr President! I have discussed this situation with several blue representatives and several downtown representatives, and I have received quite a lot of such a message that the assembly and you, Minister Orpo, are the inhibitor that has prevented this tripartite preparation. And now, a representative I appreciated in Economics. Anttila speaks this same way that Orpo is the hard bone that has prevented the tripartite preparation. [Murder ] Mr Orpo, I know you as a solution-oriented person, and I have a proposal on how to remedy this situation. There are two principles in this proposal: to support businesses and not to weaken the status of workers. I mean, with these principles. The first is that small enterprises are supported in the remuneration of the first employee, inter alia by a tax deduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u69	Mr President! You hear all kinds of things. I, too, have heard in the corridors that Mr Rinne encourages demonstrations and strikes, but I do not believe in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u73	Mr President! The President of the SDP, Antti Rinne — Mr Rinne, listen — said a few weeks ago in an interview with Yle: ‘The government is in charge of state policy but is not involved in matters that are between the other parties. “ In the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, it is not Parliament's job to decide on working life, but the labour market organisations. I wondered which other decisions Rinne felt were not for Parliament to decide. But let us go to the question: I know that, contrary to what Mrs Rinne recommends, the government has taken every aspect of working life into the tripartite preparation required by the International ILO Convention. No exceptions have been made. I would like to ask the minister responsible: is it true that the government's work life reforms have been in tripartite preparation in accordance with all the rules and agreements?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u74	Madam President! Every single one that needs to be used through the triad has done so. Of course, we cannot violate international agreements. The way in which this has now been understood as a trialogue, this big difference and the contradiction of the idea is probably. It has been the case in the past that, if there has not been unanimity, things have not necessarily been taken forward, but this government, despite the arguments and disagreements, has moved things forward, so that some have drawn the conclusion that we have somehow walked over them. Tripartite preparation has been respected, but the decision-making power lies with Parliament, not with the three sides.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u75	Congressman Rinne, a brief question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u76	Mr President! The fact is that the constitution does tell us the power relations, how things are being prepared, and that is quite clear to me, but, Mr Orpo, this is a very serious matter that was just discussed. The situation in our economy is under threat at the moment, apparently because of your stubbornness, as Mrs Anttila said in an interview with Economics magazine. Now I ask you: do you not think that this situation could be resolved in such a way that everyone can have a face? The solution is very simple: to ensure that the financial risks of companies are reduced in the recruitment of the first employee, to ensure that companies receive advice and not to undermine workers' rights. That is what my proposal is aimed at, and I believe that there will be a response from the employees. Minister Orphan, are you ready for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u77	Madam President! I really hope that this worsening situation will be resolved. That's one of the first cures we'd have to really look at what's going on. I think that these measures that are being taken at the moment and the speeches that have been made about this bill are excessive because people are being given the impression — wrong to me — that they can be dismissed on the basis of a right factor or arbitrariness. That is not true, and this is then wrong information. That's the wrong news. In the future, there will be precise labour law and a basis for it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u80	That is how far we have come, but you, Mr Biaudet, had a question — please. Then we'll call it quits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u81	Mr President! I will ask briefly, although it is a very serious and important matter. The preparation of the new Sámi District Act has been stagnated after the consultation. According to the Sámi Parliament, the Government has not fulfilled the obligation to negotiate in accordance with Article 9 of the Sámi District Act in order to reach an agreement. It would now be of paramount importance to bring about a new Sámi district law that fulfils international human rights obligations before the next district elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u82	Mr President! The government has taken very seriously the progress of the Sámi District Act and the improvement of the current state of the matter. In this cooperation, a committee had been set up which cooperated well and in which representatives of the Sámi Parliament were involved in building a compromise. I continued to support the work of the commission. The committee put forward a unanimous motion involving representatives of the Sámi Parliament. Despite this, the Sámi Chamber did not accept the committee's proposal and, unfortunately, the project is currently falling for this very reason. I have promised the Sámi people that, contrary to their will, I will not take the bill forward. In other words, despite the unanimous motion of the committee, the matter has been bogged down with regard to the Sámi Parliament. For example, the obligation to negotiate, which is at the Ministry of Justice, has been fulfilled. Negotiations have been ongoing, both informal and formal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u83	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 3/2018 vp. — Mr Lapintie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u84	Madam Speaker! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has presented its report on the Ombudsman's report last year, and here are a few points that the Committee has wanted to raise: First of all, 6256 complaints came to the Ombudsman’s Office during the 2017 reporting year, which is 1,300 more than in the previous year. The number of complaints concerning income support increased by around 700 compared to the previous year. Despite this increase in the number of complaints, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was pleased to note that the objective of the time frame for dealing with complaints has been achieved, i.e.: There were no complaints pending in the Ombudsman’s Office more than one year ago. In response to these complaints and also to the Ombudsman's own initiatives, 1141 draft measures were adopted. In addition, the Ombudsman’s Office carried out audits on 121 sites, of which more than half were unannounced, i.e. so-called surprise inspections. This was also welcomed by the committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also wanted to raise the issue of the division of duties and the development of cooperation in the area of judicial supervision. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed the division of labour between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the development of cooperation in previous reports on the reports of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it very important that the possibilities for developing the division of duties and cooperation between the Ombudsman of Parliament and the Chancellor of Justice of the Government be clarified,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the point made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs attaches great importance to the impact of the Ombudsman's activities on public authorities, on the development of the legal situation and on the implementation of fundamental and human rights. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore regrets that progress towards these is slow, and I therefore agree that what the Ombudsman points out in his report should indeed be corrected more quickly. Last June, in this Chamber, we discussed Parliament's Ombudsman's report for 2017, and in that debate I raised in the report the issue of payment disruption and recovery, starting on page 196, and the fact that, according to the Ombudsman, a considerable number of debtors had been wrongly identified and had suffered the consequences of the failure to pay, and that this was due to the Ministry of Justice's information system, which resulted in people having to suffer for no reason whatsoever. And, of course, when people were wrongly informed of the failure to pay, they have asked for this to be corrected. However, despite people’s requests, errors have not been corrected and debit cards have been denied, and their lives have become difficult for years because the default marking may be valid for up to four years. Such action has undermined people's confidence in Finland as the rule of law, and this is what the Parliamentary Ombudsman drew attention to, and these should be corrected very quickly. The debate in June also highlighted the fact that the Data Protection Supervisor has said that he does not have access to the credit register and that he cannot verify the accuracy of the register. However, in his report on page 197, the Ombudsman suggests that the Data Protection Supervisor could, in the interests of his powers, intervene in incorrect payment default marks. The matter remained a little open in June and, as far as I am aware, the Ombudsman is working on this issue, that who in Finland can check the accuracy of the credit register at all. Mr President! I believe that the register of defaults should be under the authority of the Ministry of Justice, just as we have a criminal record under the authority of the police, and not the business of private companies, as is the case today. Finnish Customer Information Oy collects data and sells it further and is a bank-owned company. In fact, failure to pay will make life difficult for people in many ways. The subscription may prevent the acquisition of a rental dwelling, home insurance, electricity contract and telephone connection, and may also hinder employment. The maintenance of such a register would definitely be a matter for the authority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u88	Mr President! The Parliamentary Ombudsman's report contains a number of findings which are important examples of the way in which the authorities' activities and also some aspects of the legislation can be improved if they are to be addressed. I would like to make a first point on these issues concerning children: One example here is the right of a child in family care to meet his biological parent. In this particular example, a child in a family investment had not been allowed to meet his or her other parent for more than two years and was also tried to limit it by all means. However, preventing a meeting of a child in foster care, despite requests from a biological parent or guardian, is often regrettable in the sense that the right measures could be taken by social services that could react and intervene quickly. This example also shows that the social action was called upon to act more effectively so that the rights of the child and his or her parents are implemented safely and fully and in a timely manner. Why do I bring up this example? This is important in that sense, because in this society we have a great deal of custody bullying and custody disputes, for example, and in many cases, not just in the case of foster care, these visiting rights of the other parent to their biological child have been limited for even years, and when we go on long enough, that child may not even want to meet another biological parent later. After all, in some sense one step forward has been achieved in this Parliament by strengthening the right of all parents to see a child even in the event of a divorce, but unfortunately, during this term of government it has not yet been achieved to some extent, for example, by criminalising it. In fact, I do not believe in the goodwill of people in issues where the life of a child is at stake and where custody is often the goal for the other party alone. Mr President! Another example here is that inspection work was carried out in the services and operating environment of care for the elderly. The book mentions that in 2016 there were around 60,000 people over 75 years of age in home care, and this report shows that in 2016 there were about 25,000 persons aged 65 or over with official family carers. Then some inspections were carried out over the years. One inspection, for example, extended to home care, and it was then found that special attention should be paid to these restrictive measures, such as locking doors to elderly people's rooms with memory problems or using hygiene jumpsuits and medical and other binding measures — perhaps too much. This home care and the survival of the elderly living at home for as long as possible is an important issue for which we should, however, devote more resources. Today we also touched on this during Question Time. — Is this the length of the speech? [President PaulaRice : 7 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u91	Madam President! It is always a pleasure in the Constitutional Committee to hear the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice and their views and experiences. It is a very valuable piece of work that they do independently, and they bring us a lot of information. That is why I very much hope that this division of duties between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice will take place, and that is why, here today, there are not too many members of the government parties, I have also contributed to this message, as has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on a number of occasions. This is where someone exclaimed that whenever it went forward. It goes forward when the government pushes it forward, and we now hope that the positions of the Constitutional Committee will be listened to when it has been said many times that please now and take this forward. In this regard, the chairman of the committee, Mr Lapintie, raised issues which were very central, but I would like to take just a few more points and details: In this speech, Mr Jääskeläinen, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, on page 25 of the report, points out that sometimes these confidentiality provisions of the Public Information Act are too absolute and wonders that there might sometimes be more consideration in it, because there is still a public interest in matters, and then one might wonder if it could be improved by simply concealing personal data. He also reflected on such issues, particularly in his hearing — and here he also states — that requests for information are sometimes very laborious and difficult for the authority to answer and there are reproaches that it has taken too long. I myself have had to and have been able to deal with these disclosure solutions, and if a request is made for a copy of all the documents, then if they are on the books, then it must be carefully examined that there are no IDs and so forth, and on each paper you consider whether it is public or not, and make an appealable decision for every single piece of paper. Perhaps we should consider how to work with it in such a way that it would be a little more flexible. I can understand this very well. It's so easy to say that things are going to be late. It is not necessarily because the official is so slow. Mr Sakslin, the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman, then made a good point about this control. I don't think there's much to talk about. In other words, he means that there are primary supervisory authorities, such as the Regional State Administrative Agency, Evira and Valvira and the special envoys, and he hoped that more matters would be dealt with there closer and then the Ombudsman could be the supreme guardian of the law, but of course he would deal with important issues. There is certainly another reason why the agencies and operators are not so clearly visible, that there are other possibilities and that there is no communication. I remember when people at the Local Register Office often made complaints about lobbyists, for example, directly to the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, and they were not necessarily aware that complaints could also be made to the Regional State Administrative Agency, which then monitored again there, and there was deeper expertise. This was a valuable speech. Then, in fact, just a few words, as the representative of the Finns Party, Niikko, raised, about these issues, which are of concern to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, and some of them are unfortunately repeated year after year. Here on page 113 begins the list of ten points, and I will take a few examples: Well, of course, these shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly are one thing. In that Question Time, Mr Savio, the representative of the Finns of Peru, raised these problems as well as the old man’s representative, and Minister Saarikko, perhaps with a little disbelief, said rather this way that he does not believe that this is such a big problem that this is just the tip of the iceberg. But here, for example, the Parliamentary Ombudsman states that there are many problems in institutional and service housing care, and often in this case the insufficient number of staff is one thing, and there is an opportunity to influence this by the government. Similarly, the fact that an elderly person does not always get to live in a housing unit when he genuinely needs it is one thing, for example, that you can actually influence in Parliament. The Minister should believe these things if they are asked, and they can be found in the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report. There, too, ministers could go a little bit to read — it may be that they have not. As far as child protection is concerned, I am very concerned that mental health services for children and young people are inadequate in the view of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. If we are talking about young people becoming marginalised and what will be done with them in the future, this is a recurring problem, which will also lead to unemployment, other forms of exclusion and substance abuse. That you should really pay attention to this. And then one thing we are talking about here: the Parliamentary Ombudsman is talking about the length of time spent dealing with legal proceedings and structural independence. I looked at that budget book again, and the human years of the courts are still falling, and there is not enough money for staff. It's just that even if there's e-services or anything else, you'll need a judge in court who's gonna decide the case. The machine can't solve it. Or then you make such parameters there that every time you come like this and this kind of case, then it is always solved in the same way — if you ever want to go like that. I am deeply concerned that the courts, for example, are being criticised for the length of the proceedings, but then there will be no provision for sufficient resources. There have also been studies from their representative organisations on the fact that there is fatigue and burn-out, and according to my knowledge and understanding of what district judges and court staff I know, they are very conscientious and want to do their job well. Let us therefore remember these appropriations. There's quite a bottleneck and a problem with people's legal security. I thank the Ombudsman for a good report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u92	Madam President! It seems that there are things in this society that no one is in favour of, and they are making progress, and there are things that everyone is in favour of, but they are not. We're dealing with just one of those. My speech is a repetition of quite a number of years and even a number of years of government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to this very issue of division of labour. I can't believe this. It is difficult to understand why things are not moving forward. I believe that Parliament should insist that this issue goes ahead so that this issue of division of labour can be put into practice. Both the Ombudsman's Office and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice are doing an excellent and good job, but it is indeed unclear to the public where to contact when there is a case. When I did that at the beginning of the summer Minister As regards the silent activities, I made a request to the Chancellor of Justice — it was related to the question of the Crisis Management Centre, and I felt that the matter was not done properly — because it was clear that when the Chancellor of Justice was subject to the judicial supervision of the Government, it was the address. But not all citizens are as clear about this, and I hope that we will find an answer to this as soon as possible. Of course, the government must take initiative, but I think that Parliament and the Constitutional Committee should promote this issue so that it is not just a question of clarification but also, as it were, a requirement for that division of labour to come. I believe that this will also make the work of both authorities more effective and more understandable to the public.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u93	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u94	Madam President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the report on this Ombudsman's report. Actually, there are just a few things I was thinking about raising here. Now that this data protection regulation has come from the EU, the tension between the protection of personal data and the principle of publicity will certainly arise in the future and perhaps even now. Especially from that association there are those speeches that although there has been time to prepare for this, there is certainly still some confusion about how personal data should be processed. There is also a fear that a penalty payment of some kind from there will come upon ignorance and action that has certainly not been intentional or deliberate. So at least this is something worth paying attention to. Here, too, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it important that the Ministry of Justice should launch an evaluation of the revision of the Publicity Act. I believe that this is a huge package which will probably become different in the future to the authorities responsible for monitoring citizens' contacts. Here Mr Tavitsainen raised the issue of default marking and the maintenance of this register. This is certainly something that needs to be considered, because this autumn has brought up cases in which, although things have been taken care of, there have been no cancellations, and people are in very strange situations and the running of their normal lives has become excessively difficult. In that sense, it must be hoped that this issue too might then perhaps be considered in the future government as to whether this should be a task for the authorities, because the effects are such that they can prevent citizens from purchasing and moving on with their normal lives. Mr Niikko then raised, for example, restrictions on self-determination in the services of the elderly and social services. This is not a very easy field. Among other things, this has been the public confusion of mentally disabled parents about being called such a caged bed, especially necessary at night, a sheltered sleeping space, which was then removed from this client, which then caused far greater problems, and images were distributed online. What, then, is the limitation of self-determination if it is in the best interests of this customer? I'm sure there's a field here that's plenty of thinking and running lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u95	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lapintie, chairman of the committee, for a smooth, good presentation of the committee's report. I participated with the delegation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last week in the Marrakesh Constitutional Congress in Morocco. The subject of that international congress was the possibility for citizens to claim their constitutional rights. The participants were mainly members of constitutional courts from different countries. Representatives from many African countries, the Middle East, southern Europe and eastern Asia and Latin America were present. Among other things, we heard the speeches made by representatives of Algeria, Libya and Turkey. From the point of view of Congress, the role of constitutional courts was highlighted. So it may have been a little weird for the Finns to be there, but we went there because we were invited. With our own proposal, we have highlighted the specific features of our system, which are different from those in which there is a constitutional court. In Finland, the control of the constitutionality of legislation takes place before the laws enter into force. We do not have a Constitutional Court, we do have a Constitutional Committee on which we have very good experience. Of course, there were some who suspected that the committee was political and not independent, as we see it, as the Constitutional Committee is. Finland’s accession to European fundamental rights thinking since the 1990s has added an additional element to domestic constitutional control. Contrary to previous practice, courts now also have a role to play, an opportunity and an obligation to assess in individual cases the application of the law from the point of view of the Constitution. If the application of a law were to be found in a dispute with the Constitution, then priority must be given to the Constitution. Thus, the role of the courts is limited to a part of what is to be done by the Constitutional Court in those countries where there is a Constitutional Court. Mr President! In Finland, however, the Ombudsman, as the supreme judicial officer, plays the most important role in safeguarding the fundamental rights of citizens after the laws have been laid down and applied. Although we do not have a Constitutional Court, citizens have the opportunity to claim their rights by making complaints to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman's report, which is given annually, contains extensive reports and long lists, as has already been pointed out here, on the subjects on which the complaint has been lodged, and also on the solutions and measures taken by the Ombudsman in response to complaints and on the basis of his observations. The Parliamentary Ombudsman does not act as a court. The Ombudsman is not a constitutional court, but he still has means and instruments at his disposal that have a real impact on the exercise of the constitutional rights of citizens. The Ombudsman's report describes the Ombudsman's alternative measures in relation to complaints and has a certain scale of the seriousness of the matter and the way in which the problems of this kind, the violations of fundamental rights, will not occur in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u96	Mr President! The Ombudsman draws the right attention to this issue in his report on page 197, at the end of the report on the costs of social welfare and health care and the difficulties caused by them. This issue was also raised during the last Question Time. Last year, a total of 320,000 social welfare and health care customer fees have been imposed. They are the usual health centre, dental care and home service fees. Even before the enforcement, people have had to deal with international recovery companies, which are actually being used by many municipalities, hospital districts and joint municipal boards, although it has been said on several occasions that it is not sensible to use them, especially when they often fail to comply with the law on recovery costs and collection costs, so much so that the cost of the EUR 20 health centre is very quickly reduced to several hundred euros and people are unable to cope with them. In particular, the Ombudsman's report draws attention to these very equal payments, which are a problem, and tells us that he has discussed the matter with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, who has announced that he has put the municipal information system in place and is preparing a new bill on customer fees. Unfortunately, however, that does not seem to correct the problem of equal payments, because the new draft law on customer fees has the same texts as the current law, i.e. only and only revenue-based payments could automatically be relieved and, as is currently the case with the service provider's own consideration of whether to reduce the level-of-payments. However, the main problems with these equal payments have arisen. In other words, on this issue too, we would like to take account of the observations made by the Parliamentary Ombudsman when making legislation, and this emphasis on the Constitutional Committee, that it is regrettable that progress is slow on these issues raised by the Parliamentary Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u97	Madam President! I would like to highlight one example of the Social Insurance Institution. Kela is an institution and agency under the control of the Parliament, and Kela's task is to safeguard the basic income of the population, promote health and support independent survival in different life situations. Mr President! In the Department of Local Government and Health, we recently heard a representative of the State Treasury. Over the last few years, we have been working quite extensively on the services to be delivered to the home of veterans, and good results have been achieved, and you could imagine that everything is fine — but it is not as simple as that. Kela currently provides municipalities with veteran data, i.e. their name and social security number, but no address. The address's missing. Apparently, data protection is being invoked. The question therefore arises at least to me that the purpose of the legislator has not been such that, when the services to be taken home by veterans are promoted, the address information would be so secret that this could not be available to the municipalities so that they could also find those veterans. As in small municipalities, veterans are not known in the largest cities. That is what the representative of the Treasury told us at the hearing of the Section for Local Government and Health. And this is only an example when we have this control. The Parliament supervises Kela's operations. Here, too, one might ask, when I know that the Ombudsman writes these down: who, then, could go and clean this up? Is this a legislative issue? In my opinion, or at least in the light of certain debates, it does not necessarily exist, but it is a question of interpretation. However, the legislator has certainly not intended to exclude one part of this important list of names and addresses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u98	Madam President! Mr Rossi raised a problem which just came to my mind, a very similar situation. The mayor of Juua said that they would have liked to organise a registration event for the unemployed, which also included local entrepreneurs, but the TE Centre appealed to data protection practices and said that they could not provide the municipality with the information of these unemployed people, who most urgently needed this type of recruitment. So it seems that, contrary to common sense, we are going to go behind data protection when people are prevented from receiving the services that they would be willing to provide, even if the end-of-life wind would also end up in favour of the municipality, because we know all these so-called Kela fines, i.e. payments for the long-term unemployed, and when the municipality would also be able to reduce these charges when it would receive information about the long-term unemployed, for whom it would be particularly useful to have these recruitment events. This situation has come in Juua. There was also another North Karelian municipality, now I do not remember that municipality, but when this matter began to be discussed among the representatives of the region, it was found that the situation was quite similar. I wonder if Lieksa was another place where a very similar issue had been encountered, i.e. the TE Centre refuses to provide that information to the municipality. Then I would also like to comment on this economic situation for the elderly, where the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already stated that the economic situation must not prevent access to these services. Now that I was trying to listen to Minister Saarikko, he said that it is probably in this article or in these guidelines of the Constitutional Committee that we are now trying to see that there is an opportunity to exempt them completely. But I think that this is a very important and central point, such as the representative. Tavitsainen also pointed out how much these social and health care contributions have now been passed on to the collection companies, and then, on the other hand, that we already have this line of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has said that the economic situation should not hinder access to such essential social and health services. So how will this matter be resolved? I would also like to say to Mr Kantola, when you told me about that trip to Morocco, that during the period 2003-2007, as a member of the Maghreb Group, I had the opportunity to visit, and then the Moroccan Minister of Justice was proud to say that they also set up such an ombudsman's office recently then. It is Arabic even ombudsman, because they had not found a better word for it, and at least then they were still talking about ombudsman and proudly presented that they now have this kind of new authority, and the model had been sought from the very Nordic models.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u99	Madam President! Unfortunately, I have not heard the whole debate, but yesterday my interest was in the news of Helsingin Sanomat, which reported that the Helsinki District Court had been dealing with foreign affairs incorrectly for years. However, the Supreme Court released the judges from the charges. This was, therefore, about the fact that a foreigner who was detained could be ordered to be placed separately in a detention facility for other reasons, including security reasons. Our legislation, which is of course to be followed by everyone, was based on the fact that we should have arranged for a district court session to be held in isolation from the detention of foreigners. So this is what the law required. I understand that it was only when the Ombudsman carried out an audit in such a place that it became apparent. I myself wondered that from 2008 to 2015, seven to eight years, the system had worked well. 223 notifications about the separation of foreigners had been made in these years. And quite descriptive was the fact that none of the foreigners, their agents, the supervisory authorities or the district court staff who were detained had questioned the course of action, which was, of course, a violation of the law in force. I was wondering, and I was wondering if there was such unnecessary regulation here. If, for this long, the system has worked properly, 223 cases have been dealt with in such a way that no one has experienced, even these isolated ones, that they have been wronged, then I would ask: would there be one point here where there would be a sensible administration and bureaucracy to dismantle and continue in the way that was well-functioning until the precise ombudsman discovered the matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u100	Mr President! In exactly the same way, I was perplexed during that Question Time by Mr Essayah, who said that the Minister assured me that the reform of the social welfare and health care fees would make this problem, which is now, easier, perhaps even disappear. But when I have been in the municipality to deal with this draft — that is to say, the municipality has been asked to give a statement on this draft law — I have looked particularly closely at this particular article, and unfortunately the new draft law is exactly the same as the current law, which means that the reduction and non-payment of the fee would take place if the payment was made for the health service according to the customer's ability to pay. In other words, they are now in the process of being reduced there, which are payments made on the basis of their ability to pay or social services. These are also in the present law. The only point added here is short-term institutional care. It's not what it is. So if you have an elderly person in the ward waiting for a place to live in service, then the hospital’s price of EUR 50 per day can then be reduced. It's a cure. But we have not added those equal fees, that is, health centre fees, hospital clinic fees, operating fees, but exactly the same as in the current law. It reads: ‘The province may decide that the payment for other services which areresponsible for organising the organisation will be reduced without being recovered. This wording is problematic because it has already been noted, with the current law in force, that we have a huge number of municipalities, joint municipal authorities and health care bodies that have not decided to reduce these equal payments. And when people contact and ask for lower charges, they always argue that we have not made a decision on this, so then they will not reduce them. It seems that this same thing is now left to this new law, i.e. ‘the province can decide’, and I do not think that this should be left to the new law,because it places people in different positions in Finland,as I would, of course, hope that, after the consultation, this point will now be changed before it is brought here to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u101	Mr President! The Ombudsman’s institution in Finland will be 100 years old in two years’ time — a significant amount of time will come to the Ombudsman’s institution. An institution of ombudsmen was established in Finland as one of the first countries. In Sweden, however, a little earlier, and precisely because it was established in Sweden, this term ombudsman was then left for international use, which is why I sometimes find Swedish on display there. Mr President! A couple of years ago, during the previous President, we were accompanied by a small group of speakers from the Lohelan delegation, both in Tunisia and Morocco, and then the developments in North Africa in these countries were very much linked to constitutional reforms in these countries and also to these institutions, constitutional courts and others. And now I thought I noticed that in Morocco, where the reform phase used to be where there was a Constitutional Committee in Parliament, the Constitutional Court has now also been introduced. That this development appears to be moving forward there in some way. Of course, having a constitution and then a strong institution to monitor it will certainly help to develop normal legislation in these countries, where there may be a lot of shortcomings in legislation, so that citizens' fundamental rights and, in part, international agreements will gradually come closer to the legislation that is being followed in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u102	Mr President! In his introduction, Mr Lapintie referred to the control of the future provinces. I think that is a good reference. We in the Audit Committee have also dealt with it in general terms. If we think about the province of Uusimaa and the Helsinki region, it is a really big, massive entity and also poses major challenges for both economic and legal control. After all, when public money is used or put at risk, it is always said on the financial audit side that there must be three things: accountability, i.e. someone must be responsible for the money, transparency, i.e. the use of money must be transparent, and then public scrutiny. As far as financial audit is concerned, the regions have their own audit boards, as do the municipalities, and VTV, the National Audit Office, will have new powers, and that is a good thing. With regard to the financial audit, the Audit Committee made a statement that there should also be sufficient resources for this control. It is easy to compete now, and the resources are scarce, and there are no experienced experts. Of course, the question of resources will also be taken into account when it comes to law enforcement. I would like to ask: what is the case, is there now, within the framework of the Ombudsman's office, provision being made for the control of future provinces, taking into account their really large size?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u103	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Taavitsainen, for quoting this paragraph, because it has been a little confusing in what way this previous line in the Constitutional Committee could be taken into account. The fact that this consideration now applies to these payments that depend on the ability to pay does indeed exclude a huge number of different payments, since in the vast majority of municipalities, for example, health centre fees are equal and do not depend on the customer's ability to pay. They may have been made either with an annual fee or there may be a fee for the first three times. There are different practices in different parts of Finland. As I understand it, Äveräs Helsinki does not currently charge basic health care fees at all. In other words, there are already a lot of these practices in different parts of Finland in different municipalities, and in the sense that these reliefs now apply only to these payment-dependent ones, still leaves a large number of payments to the customer. In what way, from the point of view of equality, this line in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can be taken into account, in fact, is a question to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will certainly have to take a position on this particular paragraph, because on this basis it would appear that the regions will then be able to take these decisions on the basis of their abstinence. In some regions, where the economic situation is good, there would be a possibility that payments would be exempt and others would not. So this situation between the provinces would not necessarily improve at all, but perhaps worsen. Then perhaps you can say that there could be some sort of handicap within the province. It was a very good thing that this came up in Mr Taavitsäinen's speech. This will add to the pressure that this point in this bill on customer fees must be clarified very carefully and carefully. There can be no risk of equality between citizens in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u104	Representative Lapintie, followed by the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u105	Mr. Speaker! For my part, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who took part in the debate for a lively and varied debate on this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All in all, when questions were asked about these new methods of control and how, for example, regional and social reform will affect them, then of course the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will, in due course, reflect on these issues. However, as far as the Ombudsman's office is concerned, I have at least been given the impression that the Ombudsman's institution is very interested in developing and improving its operation and in its new challenges, such as those raised in this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the committee welcomes this new annex, which lists, among other things, all the legislative proposals for the reporting year. I believe that the Ombudsman's proposals for better regulation indicate that this is an institution that is old but has a modern and effective and active working grip.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u106	I understand that the Ombudsman would like to speak again. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u107	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman, Mr Lapintie, for his report on the Ombudsman's report and the comments made in it. I am pleased to say that this inquiry into the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice is about to begin. I understand that in the next few days, the Minister of Justice will set up a working group to prepare for this. Here, Mr Taavitsainen raised these unjustified errors in payment systems caused by the Ministry of Justice's error in the information system, for which I made that decision during the reporting year. Now, from the Ombudsman’s point of view, follow-up measures are problematic in that the supervision of credit information companies does not fall within the mandate of the Ombudsman. Instead, it falls within the competence of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Supervisor has access to this information from the Credit Data Register. It's obvious. I have recently sent a request to the Data Protection Supervisor for clarification as to what measures he has taken in relation to these matters. This is perhaps just the sort of control that the Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Sakslin, raised in his own report. There was a little question here as to whether this maintenance of credit registers should be passed on to the authorities. I myself have wondered whether the keeping of credit registers should be regarded as a public task. That it would not have to be an authority, but it could be a private one, but if it were to be considered a public task, it would then come under the authority and control of the Ombudsman. This would require a legislative change, so the Ombudsman cannot suddenly consider that this should be regarded as a public task which falls within the mandate of the Ombudsman, but I have myself considered this possibility. I would also like to thank you for all the other good speeches that have been made here. Perhaps that is what Mr Heinonen has raised in the proceedings of the District Court of Helsinki in the case of these foreigners who have been kept in isolation, when I myself have at the time given the charge, perhaps I can comment on that. Mr Heinonen stated that 223 notifications had come from the detention unit and that all of them had been neglected in the district court and that these cases had gone well and asked whether there was any unnecessary regulation. Well, of course it is up to the legislator to consider what kind of regulation, what legal protection procedures are to be applied in these cases, but, of course, it is quite well established that we have such measures which increase the degree of deprivation of liberty, which must at least have access to the courts. The procedure has now been adopted that the district court must, of its own motion, take these matters to court when the notice of such separation has come to the district court. Whether these 223 cases had gone well, we do not know when the District Court has not dealt with these cases and has not assessed whether in all these cases there were conditions for the separation of a foreigner. Perhaps the other speeches were such that they do not require any further response from me. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u108	The debate on this matter is not yet closed, but Mr Heinonen wishes to say something about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-04-ps-95.u109	Mr President! I do not, of course, know how to comment on it, but I specifically thought that, when it was established that these 223 cases had occurred between 2008 and 2015, none of these foreigners who had been detained, but on the other hand none of their agents, had intervened. So, of course, you may wonder what kind of agents these foreign detainees have had. On the other hand, neither the supervisory authorities nor the district court staff had questioned this approach. From that I myself concluded that it was probably going pretty well then, and I think that surely the district court would have more important things to do than to do something like this, which has worked for seven or eight years without that hearing. But the law is to be followed.
