ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u2	Mr President! I now present the Government's proposal on the limited right of prescription for a nurse, which has been familiar with the practice of Finnish healthcare since 2010. At that time, the limited prescription of nurses was made possible by introducing a new chapter on symptomatic treatment and restricted prescription into the Health Care Professionals Act. According to the law in force today, a nurse with sufficient practical experience who has completed the additional training provided for by the Government Decree has the right to prescribe medicines from a pharmacy to a patient treated at a health centre in the case of preventive treatment, continued treatment or when the medication is based on a nurse’s need for treatment. First of all, this right to a limited prescription requires that the nurse has completed certain additional training courses and has sufficient work experience in the field in which she would prescribe the medicine. In addition, the responsible doctor of the functional unit should issue a prescription specifying the medicinal products to be prescribed by the nurse and the possibility of consulting the doctor is always available. The introduction of a limited prescription also requires an appropriate division of duties between the doctor and the carers within the functional unit. At best, limited prescription speeds up patients’ access to treatment and treatment, streamlines the functioning of health care units and promotes appropriate division of labour. The core of this whole presentation is strong partner thinking and the promotion of an appropriate division of labour for the benefit of the Finnish service user. Mr President! Limited prescription of a nurse will be used to monitor long-term controlled diseases and to treat mild acute health problems. These patients are usually directed directly to the nurse’s office, thus avoiding visits by several professionals. If necessary, the nurse will consult the doctor or refer the patient to the doctor. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is strongly linked to the fact that when we consider, regardless of the model and the reforms, how we will make the most productive, efficient and patient-friendly future healthcare content solutions, we must inevitably consider who is doing what. The doctor will continue to be the last lock to make decisions on patient treatment determinations. Mr President! The introduction of restricted prescriptions is currently possible only through open reception at the health centre and joint emergency services at the hospital district. Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs and Health called for a careful assessment of the impact of the reform in its report on the government's proposal for a limited prescription of medicines. This has been done. The situation and development needs have been studied quite extensively in the expert working group. According to the questionnaires accompanying it, the experience of restricted prescription is mainly positive. Patients had confidence in the competence of an appropriately trained nurse and also that if necessary, they would always have access to a doctor. Mr President! According to the report, the nurse also took well into consideration the non-pharmaceutical options. The benefits of prescribing a nurse’s medicine were felt, such as more effective use of a nurse’s work input, faster access to care for patients, better cooperation between doctors and nurses, and a better chance for doctors to focus on more demanding, specifically professional care. The Government's proposal now under discussion would broaden the scope for operating units to introduce controlled limited prescriptions and to make use of this possibility in reforming and developing the division of labour in health care. The implementation of symptomatic treatment as part of the multi-professional team's activities, further training in prescribing medicines and positive experience with limited prescriptions all provide a good basis for expanding the introduction of restricted prescription in outpatient care services. The Government's proposal allows for the introduction of restricted prescriptions in the community's or joint municipal authority's outpatient health care services, but also in healthcare outpatient care services provided under contract by the municipality or joint municipal authority. In other words, in the future this competence of nurses can be better used in home nursing and special care clinics. The possibility of introducing a limited prescription in new activities would be in exactly the same basic conditions as it has been so far. Patient safety remains the most important guideline and is ensured in many ways. Regardless of the method of production — i.e. what sign the service provider has on the roof — has the same obligation to ensure that the prescribed medication is properly prescribed, and the additional 45 credits and the service relationship function unit where multiprofessional support for the work of the nurse can be achieved and must always continue to have the orders of the corresponding doctor in the operating unit. It is the responsibility of the unit of operations to take measures in accordance with the self-monitoring plan, such as maintaining a procedure to ensure patient safety for the monitoring of prescriptions, and of course the authorities, in our current system, Valvira and the regional government authorities, will monitor the adequacy of professional activities. All of this is also aimed at cost savings. Their scope depends entirely on how this new legislation will be used, introduced and put into practice in the everyday life of social and health services. Above all, we want to speed up access to care, streamline the functioning of health care units and promote multiprofessional cooperation for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u3	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u4	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Saarikko for a very good bill. This bill is certainly to be welcomed. The existing limited right of prescription for nurses is now to be extended and the number of medicines to be prescribed increased. There are good experiences in prescribing medicines for nurses in different parts of Finland. There have been no problems with patient safety, and in many places where doctors initially opposed it, they have found things to be good and they have said that their workload has been eased. The general experience has been that doctors’ resources have been released for treatment in the most demanding groups of patients. As a side output, partner and teamwork skills and functions are also reported to have developed. The feedback of patients has also been, as a rule, very positive. There is usually a shorter waiting time for nurses than for a doctor, and this model speeds up and improves the availability and accessibility of services. Nurses usually already have excellent patient guidance skills due to their initial training and help to make it easier for patients to take care of themselves and to succeed in medical treatment. A year ago, nurses in 15 OECD and EU countries had the right to prescribe medicines. I have not been able to check whether this figure has increased. Ireland and England have been pioneers in this regard. There the right to prescribe medicines for nurses is considerably wider than is currently proposed in this proposal. International experiences have also been good as a rule. In particular, I am pleased that in the future these specially trained nurses will also be able to prescribe medicines for home nursing. As a former home nurse, I can assure you that this will ease the pressure on home care and enable better organisation of work. It is also likely to speed up the initiation of drug therapy. This legal reform also facilitates the rational division of work between nurses and doctors so that nurses can take better care of different control visits. The implementation of the original objectives of the Sote reform requires a reform of the working methods and a revision of the division of labour between different occupational groups. This is an excellent example of sensible policy reform. In order to get nurses to apply for this demanding additional training, employers should ensure that the changed job description is also reflected in remuneration. There are not many of these nurses yet, and I would like to see this activity expand and increase. Finally, on the basis of research evidence, there is no reason to oppose the right of nurses to prescribe medicines. In Finland, there is still a limited amount of actual research. Studies have been carried out, as the Minister said, but an international study shows that this criticism is unfounded. Rather, international studies show a high level of patient care and a high level of satisfaction with this extended work description of nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u5	Madam President! Finnish health care has been very strongly based on a high level of education for different professionals, occupational groups, health professionals, and this is still an explicit strength for us. I am thinking of the fact that we are now dealing with this draft law, that this is primarily a question of the patient's right to access high-skilled care, and I think the main problem with this proposal is precisely that, on this basis, we are still moving in the direction of, as it were, weakening the patient's ability to obtain a prescription based on high-skilled knowledge. It is important to develop the division of labour between different occupational groups in health care, but it should be based on the specific task for which each occupational group is trained. Ultimately, the responsibility for the patient’s care rests with the doctor, who also has the relevant training. Here the Minister has already stated that in 2010 we did indeed add to the legislation the right of nurses to prescribe medicines for symptomatic treatment and the related limited prescription of medicines, and at that stage, with the medical shortage in health centres at its worst, the objective was to provide additional training for more than 500 nurses for a limited prescription. Well, according to this proposal, in seven years, some 340 nurses have now completed this training, which is clearly less than was estimated then, and perhaps one of the reasons for this low level of interest has been the fact that in health care units it has been estimated to be a rather cost-effective and inappropriate approach. Now this new proposal will continue to propose measures to extend this practice. Indeed, this division of labour and cooperation between different groups of professionals in health care should be developed both in primary health care and in specialised medical care, but this cooperation should be based on the knowledge of the training and experience of different groups of professionals. For example, working with partners in the outpatient care of health centres has been an excellent way to deepen this cooperation, and surely these operating models can still be found. At the same time, we need to find those operating models in which, for example, doctors' working time can still be targeted at the very core of their competence and routine work can be reduced, but, as is well known, it is not precisely among the medical profession and the Medical Union that this issue of prescription for nurses is seen as some sort of routine, non-medical work. The law still in force on health professionals provides that a legalised doctor decides on a patient’s medical examination, diagnosis, and related treatment, including prescription. So prescription is not a loose, routine procedure, but is based on this diagnosis, it is based on diagnosis. It is, of course, based on the medical training, the long six-year training which will enable diagnosis, diagnostics and related treatment. Then, when we talk about this so - called nurse’s recipe, we go to the very area that this professional law provides for a doctor to do. To some extent, I see that, at the moment, we have legislation in itself in a contradictory situation on the basis of this decision taken earlier in 2010. In practice, this means that patients are increasingly being directed to a nurse when it comes to prescribing a medicine and then do not receive the high-level assessment both of their illness and then of the need for treatment. Well, what is the basis of this government proposal? It's based on the need to find savings. So here is a long, multi-page presentation of what the financial implications of this presentation would be, and it is based on a study by the University of Eastern Finland. But it must be noted that the basic problem with this calculation is that a doctor’s 30 - minute appointment is held, which means that the prescription would be renewed, with the equivalent length of the nurse’s visit. However, these appointments often deal with a lot of other professional matters. The doctor does not just use that 30 - minute reception time to rewrite a routine prescription, but then takes into account the patient’s other matters. I therefore hope, Mr President, that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will now look carefully at this proposal and also evaluate these economic calculations, whether they are based on actual assessments and whether it is useful to continue to expand this, or whether we should act as if: The Medical Association suggests giving up this current right to prescribe a nurse’s medicine and returning to this basic idea of the Professionals Act regarding the appropriate division of labour between different categories of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u6	Mr President! This amendment is very welcome. In health care, it is constantly important to develop such a structured and rational division of labour. The limited right of prescription for nurses is a well-regulated activity supervised by Valvira, which means that the nurse, even before entering this training, must have sufficient practical experience and 45 credits of further training, including theoretical studies, including evaluation of the patient's need for treatment, the implementation of symptomatic care and the assessment and monitoring of the effects of treatment, i.e. a very broad view is needed. So all of this is partly theory, but part of it then comes under the supervision of its doctor. Then, too, the witness and the national test come under the supervision of medical knowledge. In Finland, these nurses have been trained for about seven years and, as has been said in several speeches, some 370 nurses have at present obtained this limited right to prescribe medicines. I do not think that the fact that the number is so small would be so much a question of considering that this training is not profitable, but it is very expensive. This training costs about EUR 5000, and then employers will, of course, consider whether they will send their own carers to training there, and yet it is clear that the employers who have invested in this have been very pleased in the future to have been able to develop this reception of carers more widely. It is worth remembering that it is a question of access to patient care, of flexible access to patient care. In addition, international research shows in several studies that the quality of treatment and prescription does not vary depending on whether the prescriber is a nurse or a doctor. Patients are generally very satisfied, and the report published by the STM in 2016 is also very positive for this activity. It could be said from international activities that in the United States, for example, there are 175,000 such prescribers and 36,000 in England, so that the numbers vary considerably. We were talking about what is cost-effective and what is not. I could, in fact, end my defence of this good amendment to the fact that a friend of mine just yesterday told me that he had such a mild acute health problem and that he had access to basic health care on the very same day, specifically to the nurse's office, and the nurse examined him and said that he had the disease, but this nurse did not have this right to write prescriptions. So my friend waited in the nurse’s room when the nurse went to the doctor and told him what was wrong with this patient, and then came into the room with the prescription and gave it to the patient. I do not know what the sensible course of action is, that this nurse had this right to write prescriptions, that she would have treated the patient from A to O, or that she, the nurse, should go to the doctor and the doctor without seeing the patient write this prescription.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I entirely agree with the very good speech made by Mrs Laitinen-Pesola. This government proposal is very good. This proposal proposes to amend the provision of Article 23 of the Health Care Professionals Act on the restricted prescription of a nurse. According to the law in force, a nurse who has sufficient practical experience and has completed further training has the right to prescribe medicines for treatment from a pharmacy to a patient treated at a health centre. This bill now extends this possibility so that it can also take place in the open reception of the health centre, in the joint emergency services of the hospital district and in outpatient care. As a care person, I do see that this proposal is a very good thing. This prescriber training was started in Finland some years ago, it was exactly on 1 July 2010, and it was indeed a joy for health care professionals, these nurses, who are generally workers with long experience and so-called care companies. They have vision and know-how and also want to continue their training. This 45-point training is not a pushover, it is a very demanding training, you have to put resources into it and you have to invest in it. It is usually done in the course of work, and it is not easy to go to that game, which means that these are skilled and knowledgeable, who have then entered the workplace after this training. However, in 2012 there was a problem that this training threatened to stop altogether in the absence of applicants. Why was that? According to a study by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at the time, the situation was that the employer had to pay a large part of this total amount of training and then caused these nurses either not to leave or not to leave. In a way, they were not recommended to go to college because the costs were high. I would now like to ask, Minister, when you sit in that box, about the cost of this education in the future and about the fact that, when the resources are allocated to it, all those who hope to be able to do this training will be able to do so. Would it be that there could be about 100 people to be trained on an annual basis, or what kind of estimate would you throw at that amount? There is clearly a demand for this profession. Here, alongside nurses, I would also like to raise the issue of local nurses who also study a certain amount of medicine in their studies — and they also have situations there on the job field often that they can take part in the distribution of medicines, much more than they can possibly get — and that the workplaces should also be treated with respect for the local nurse’s degree, so that it is understood that there is a lot of knowledge and know-how, and then, possibly, further training in the workplace can take place in areas where knowledge is not necessarily obtained from the school bench. Then, Mr President, I would like to raise this issue of the registration of professional staff. After all, we currently have social and health care registers both of their own, i.e. we have social workers registered in the Public Favorite Register, which includes, among other things, socionomists and geronomists, and then we have a health care register, which includes nurses, local nurses. In a way, when we have a social welfare reform now on the threshold and apply for those skilled workers, we have, among other things, family homes, and more and more nurses — women-dominated sectors — would like to set up such a small nursing home. For example, geronomists with know-how and skills could be registered in the healthcare register in the future, because they also have the knowledge of medical treatment. The fact that they are not part of the health register is often justified by this lack of medical training, but the genomics are willing and willing to add to their educational base all the additional training they need. In other words, they too could be more involved in demanding work that lacks the skills. Well, then, as a sugar at the bottom: this is not so easily applauded, that is, when we have training and we have skills and nurses want to go to further training so that they can have the right to prescribe medicine — and that is the pay. So every time that nurse, usually in a female-dominated field, learns further training, it would be desirable for it to be visible there in a paycheck. It is a huge knowledge and resource that these people bring there when there is a shortage of staff and yet there is a shortage of people when people are sick. Let us take this into account in our speeches, in our actions and let us always remember that it is worth taking into account the additional training for the nurse who has such a fine professionalism. I thank the government for bringing such a proposal. As a representative of the opposition, it is easy to agree with this at this stage. This will certainly be the subject of discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Great performance — thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u8	Mr President! First of all, I would like to have a little discussion about the fact that I understand those concerns as well. This was, for example, Mrs Räsänen, who has already discussed what is the current law in force. I know that there have been problems with drugs in the sense that if there are several medications, how does one medicine fit one another, but of course doctors can also go wrong. In fact, for this reason, I would have asked the Minister for the current interpretation of whether the person in question has the right to request access to a doctor, if he himself feels that perhaps now that knowledge of the nurse does not assure him that he will certainly be able to do so. When I was looking at this law, it was so that this nurse may consult, but is the patient entitled to such a feeling that now it would probably be good for someone to watch because it can also cause a life - threatening situation? I personally value education very much, and doctors have been studying for a very long time, and they have the multi-disciplinary skills. However, without prejudice to other professionals, I would like to ensure that people have the right to a doctor. In fact, the second question I would like the Minister to take a position on: has it been considered, in terms of economic impact, whether this might cost the customers in some way less? Of course, we have to take this customer perspective into account, not just the business economy. I was also thinking about something that actually comes to mind when we talk about medicines and prescriptions, that in recent years and now, especially this spring, there has been a lot of discussion about these self-care medicines in shops. After all, this report on the renewal of pharmaceutical distribution by the grocery store has now been completed. In this context, I would like the Minister to have the opportunity to comment on whether there are any discussions within the Ministry on the exemption of these self-care medicines. I myself have been very liberal about this because I am very concerned about access to medicines in rural areas, in sparsely populated places and, of course, in pharmacy opening hours. But I also understand that not everything can be set free, that there will be no abuse or such concerns. But as an example to the minister I bring from my own experience that, for example, these kinds of different pharmaceutical creams could be quite well on the shelf of the store. I myself have owned different kinds of animals of my age, including worms, and I do not get them from the handicraft shop, but I always have to see that I could go to the pharmacy so that, for example, I could try to ease some of the animal medicine. I would have asked how this work is going because at least this Hyssälä interim report talks about a $3 billion pot. This too is a great deal of money when we have this ongoing debate on this issue of social security. Somehow it seems that this has not been so easy in Finland. At least this report states that in others: In the Nordic countries, a little more has been achieved from now on. I hope for answers to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u9	Mr President! It is easy to agree with those thanks in connection with this bill. It is very good if this division of duties between doctors and nurses is now extended to the outpatient side. Experience with the ability of nurses to prescribe drugs has been good. It has facilitated faster and smoother treatment for patients and also cooperation between doctors and nurses. In North Karelia, this cooperation between nurses and doctors was already improved through experiments, and since 2010, the law has indeed had the possibility for nurses to give recipes, but as has been pointed out here, it must be experienced nurses and they will receive additional training. In that sense, I believe that the concerns that have been raised here, particularly on behalf of the Association of Doctors, are such that this experience and further training can be used to respond to them, and that is how it has been today. It is very good that this is being considered specifically in the health sector, where there are quite precise and high walls in how the division of labour can be smoothed down between doctors and nurses. When we also know that the need for social security is very great and we will have challenges to find enough staff, it makes sense to look at the content and division of labour you, who could perform and what kind of tasks. But of course, as has been well mentioned in this debate, the doctor has the overall responsibility and we must ensure that the patient is well-treated and well-informed and of high quality. I believe that, when this bill is before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, these different points of view will be well established there and this bill will be a good and workable one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u10	At this point, I'll give Minister Mattila two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u11	Madam President! Thank you for the good questions. Now, of course, the rapporteur, Mr Saarikko, is not here, there is another meeting, but I will answer the questions that came to me and, above all, there was this question of medicine, which was raised by Mr Meri. Traditionally, we have seen the need for authorisation for the sale of medicines, i.e. that we have pharmacies that are subject to authorisation, and that there is always an advisory responsibility for the sale of the medicine, even if it is a self-medicating medicine. But as we know, the board's pharmacy team also dealt with this issue, and specifically there was talk of some self-care creams, a very small, limited product range that could possibly come for sale, sales could also be released. Pharmacy guidelines have, as it were, been put together in baskets in that ministry, and they move from there. I am sure there will soon be a first presentation from the consultation, which means that this is, as it were, at a stage, but of course it is not quite clear, because I am sure that each product will have to be viewed one by one, which is possible to be released. But this work is in progress, so to speak. Well, then, quite briefly, when good questions were raised here about the level of education — whether there are enough applicants, whether there is a right to demand that a doctor is available — I think that the patient must always be treated in agreement. Perhaps even more is the question of what Mr Laitinen-Pesola pointed out, that there is no doctor available and that there is limited resources and that means that the nurse's appointments have been increased. I shall conclude briefly that the consultation has, of course, taken place. These concerns have been raised there, and I am sure there are some points that you can still check with the rapporteur's minister in committee. But this proposal is now in the hands of Parliament, so to speak. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u12	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u13	Madam President! I warmly welcome this bill and the reform. This is a good and worthy proposal. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we are going through this carefully, and I say that although this is not a big step, this is an important step in moving the water that stands for the distribution of social work. We also need stronger action at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to make full use of the skills of trained social workers, and indeed this proposal, which amends the law on professionals so that the limited right of prescription for a nurse is extended, is very good. When there has been a debate here, I would really like to underline that this right lies with those nurses who have had sufficient practical experience and who have actually completed its additional training, and here there are many measures to ensure safety in this regard. This has been followed and watched, and the results are good. International investigations were brought up here, which shows that we are in the right waters. This proposal fulfils the objectives of the social welfare reform: we promote cooperation, the quality of care and the fact that the same money will provide more. So this is a very good performance. But I would like to point out a little more about what the Minister said about this lack of doctors. Yes, there is a great deal of domestic experience in nursing receptions, such as direct receptions by physiotherapists. Based on this and research, it has been considered reasonable that in such matters a person should first go to the direct reception of a physiotherapist, showing that there are fewer surgeries, fewer painkillers, and that people will be rehabilitated and able to function. So let me ask you this: what further steps could this government still take to promote nurse receptions, both for nurses and for example for physiotherapists? After all, the Sote Act contains in the explanatory statement a direct reception of physiotherapists, but it does not exist in the articles. I hope that this too can be considered at least by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u14	Madam President! We cannot say no to this, but it is indeed good that things are moving forward in a sensible way, so to speak, with common sense. Mr Laitinen-Pesola's speech, which was well-informed and focused on the essentials, must be congratulated by the people of Satakunta. But if there were something you wanted to think about in committee, it would be that we should not now take the role of pharmacies, because it is precisely in those sparsely populated areas that it is a special matter whether we have in the store, for example, the worm medicines and so on, brought by the representative of the sea, as a dog enthusiast. If the resource that pharmacies operate is taken to stores, it means that our local services from pharmacies are easily deteriorating and we are going to have to pick up those medicines in the neighborhood. We must ensure that pharmaceutical safety is in expert hands, and in that sense pharmacies must have the opportunity to provide people with the well-being they can produce today with their own knowledge. I would like the committee to include one thing in its report. It is the fact that, now that this issue is being taken forward and the competent, experienced medical staff will also be given the right to prescribe a prescription, so to speak, it would be seen whether something is happening which is now and again being informed that doctors are prescribing the products of a particular pharmaceutical company, that a position is now being taken on this point, that there will be some sort of distortion: whether certain pharmaceutical companies are more active and thus receive better rates in the new market and so on. This current practice and the extension of this possibility would be seen and clarified. I did not quite understand the inclusion of physiotherapists in this, but I really do welcome this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u15	Mr President! Of course, this is not the only reform of the division of labour that has been piloted and carried out and presented in social and health care. Similar changes have also been made to improve the division of duties between dental nurses and dentists, and, in fact, the work image of physiotherapists has been changed so that pain patients, for example, can get directly to a physiotherapist without a referral from a doctor, and they think about the treatment without having to do the doctor’s visit between them, and that will, of course, speed up the start of treatment, and it will also make the treatment more effective. Yes, in social and health care, we need to think more about whether we have developed into thinking that this has always been the case, so that it prevents us from making sensible reforms in the division of labour as well. Of course, reforms must always be considered from the point of view of the patient and the customer, but if, for example, this bill is considered, so far this model has proved very reasonable from the point of view of the patient and the customer, and the patients have been satisfied, and the working communities in which this model has been introduced have also been satisfied. Among other things, they have reported that patient queues have been dismantled. In North Karelia, for example, the experiences have been very good. As I said in my previous speech, international experience also supports this bill. And even if Mr Räsänen asked whether this is now a savings law, whether this is being done simply because of savings, I do not really believe that in all the countries where the right to prescribe nurses has been made possible, this would have been a saving decision, but, yes, there have been evidence-based issues behind it and it has been perceived as a useful change for some other reason, and no country where this applies has gone to withdraw it, rather the contrary. Yes, this is a very good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u16	Madam President! Experienced, good nurses are worth gold in health care in different units of medical care. Good cooperation, teamwork is essential when efforts are made to improve medical care and comprehensive patient contact and care. But who has experienced in what way? I would like to point out here, for example, that when people talk about experienced nurses, it is one thing if you have a long experience in one area than if you have experience in many different fields. This affects not only education but, of course, the way in which he is able to deal with the patient, assessing the patient’s situation. As a doctor, I think that this proposal must be carefully considered in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Just as Mr Räsänen said, he gave a distinguished speech on this subject, there are a great many points of view here which must be carefully assessed. Laitinen-Pesola raised, among other things, the possibility for nurses to prescribe symptomatic treatment to patients and, on the other hand, the fact that the doctor is ultimately responsible for the treatment. Is it a doctor who answers if a nurse has prescribed some medicines? I also think that these responsibilities should be assessed here. Then shouldn't the nurse be responsible for the medicines she prescribes? Or if, as it has been all the way here, the doctor is ultimately responsible, then we will be in such an area as to have to think very carefully about what medicines the nurse could prescribe and in what situations. Here it came up in some speeches that a nurse can actually prescribe medications for a symptom. This is one of the problems that we can treat the symptoms, but the symptoms can be a sign of very different conditions, and one of the key issues in the long training of doctors is precisely that doctors can understand, combine different conditions and perhaps very different symptoms. A type of symptom may be a certain type of symptom, but it may well be a sign of a variety of other conditions. In that sense,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u17	Madam President! Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out the example of effective work-sharing and flexible access to care for patients to these physical therapists' direct receptions. I would like to say that I myself am very much in favour of this type of development, and I myself have been in favour of this type of development. But what this legislation is about is that, contrary to the training and division of labour of health professionals, the responsibility for diagnosis and related care is transferred to nurses who, of course, receive this additional training, but in any case their level of education is lower than that of a doctor. It is precisely on the basis of education that a doctor should carry out these diagnoses, diagnosis of the disease, and prescribe medical prescriptions based on it, including a prescription. And there is no way that we are reducing the level of care provided to the patient, because the level of education required is falling. In the old days, there was a Väskärikunta in the Soviet Union, which was in it and between the nurse and the doctor, and I hope that in this direction we would not be reducing this required level of education in Finland, but that we should stick to the principles of this current professional law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u18	President! Now, I hope this doesn't turn out to be one of these nurses against doctors or doctors against nurses-debatt. But when somehow I feel that we are talking about a little more expansion, then there are a few things worth remembering: First of all, the medicines prescribed today by a nurse are related to the possibility of starting treatment for infections of the eye or urinary tract, for example, or of continuing certain prescriptions for hypertension, asthma or diabetes prescribed by your doctor. That means, however, that the amount we have today is quite limited, and we are not here to expand this pharmaceutical repertoire with this motion of amendment. In addition, before a nurse can do this, she needs that particular work experience, she needs that additional training, she needs the prescription plus the list of medicines she is allowed to prescribe, and then she must have that consultation opportunity. When the expert group has assessed this existing practice precisely through the consultation possibility, the reasons why nurses have consulted doctors specifically showed that these nurses are well aware of the limits of their respective responsibilities. In other words, when there is a slight suspicion here that nurses do not understand what their education and skills are, I have to say that nurses are relatively or very well aware of their professional competence. In addition, it was raised in the speech by Mrs Tanus that the nurse would not be responsible for the prescriptions she had written. Of course, everyone is responsible for their own work. Of course, the nurse is responsible for the prescriptions she has written. Mr Juvonen, who had already left, then spoke about this remuneration. From experience, I know that, as a result of hard work, the carers' lobbying organisation has managed to negotiate with these so-called 'poverty' organisations locally. increases of between EUR 400 and EUR 500 for prescription nurses. If, then, you think that when you compare it with the pay of some other professional groups, it is not a very great deal of money for employers in relation to the benefits they will then benefit from this effective division of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u19	Madam President! Here, when there is only a congressman on drugs who understands nothing about how they are given, it must be said that, just ahead of us, Mr Laitinen-Pesola put it at the heart of the argument that this should not be such a confrontation. At least for myself, when I was in that SuPer challenge the previous year, that shift in the Nakkila Elderly Service Unit, I found that all the medication that is being given — it is being given every day — is always under the control of that doctor. This does not remove when the doctor prescribes medication that there are still no certain tolerances, and I am sure — I have not read every page of this now, I acknowledge it immediately, but I have formed my own impression — that this does not mean that nurses who work in an elderly service unit are given the opportunity to prescribe mental health medicines or something else. It is a question of professional competence in that sector and the right to prescribe medicines in the context of further training. If I have misunderstood, then I hope that someone will guide me here to the right quality, but this is how I understand the fact that it is not here to make nurses doctors who can prescribe prescription drugs, so to speak, according to their own will. My harsh language may be forgiven, but that is not the case, because in any case, when we go to the questions of responsibility, each person is responsible, so to speak, in the district court for his own decision. A mistake cannot be made elsewhere if it is a personal mistake, unless it has been blessed by the treating physician to make some changes to the prescription, and therefore the response is made. It is a pity that in some cases, even now, with regard to the treatment of that urinary infection, we still have to make public hospital visits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u20	Madam President! I would like to reiterate that there is no doubt that I started my previous speech with the fact that experienced nurses, experienced nurses, are worth a lot of gold in health care units and that good teamwork between the doctor-career couple, for example, is worth more than gold. In that respect, I am also thinking of the division of labour. They can be evaluated and it is good for the various services to think about them too, but, overall, there are also points in this proposal which it is good to carefully assess there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It should be said, in particular, that, as a gynecologist, there has been a simple urinary tract infection mentioned several times now, that I have found many times over the years that, unfortunately, urinary tract infections have been treated when there might have been a need to treat other things, and the symptoms and the pain have been reduced when there has been some other problem. In that sense, man has a hard time, a good symptom of his symptoms, let me say, a variety of things and, in a way, simple things are quite limited many times. In that sense, I certainly do not want any confrontation here to be fomented or restricted, but I would like to say that it is good to look at this matter with time in the committee in consultation with experts. Of course, above all, we are talking about which medicines to whom and at what stage are to be prescribed, and about these issues of responsibility. Of course, what I am saying is that we should take full account of the patient and the symptoms and in such a way that we do not only treat the symptoms, but that we can find the cause and the pain and the disease and, as soon as possible, we will find the right thing to do. But we will continue to work on this proposal there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I hope that the outcome will be such that it will of course serve the patients first and foremost, the early treatment and prevention of patients, and that the solution will be that which would then be sensible for the entire health care staff and for the medical intervention units, and also that these responsibilities will be considered to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u21	Madam President! As you can see from my voice, I have quite a lump and a sore throat. — I consider this government proposal to be excellent. We have to take this forward. As an experienced expert in my own life, I can tell you that because of my suspicions I went to that health centre in this Parliament House and asked to move on and I said, "Can't a doctor write an e-prescription to that pharmacy without seeing me, and the health care receiver who was in it said he couldn't see you?" Well, I wrote an e-mail to the doctor, told him what the problem is, what the current condition is, and I got an e-prescription, and I think the doctor did the right thing here. In exactly the same way I could have obtained it from an occupational health nurse if this law, which is now under discussion, were already in force. So I do not think that doctors should be overburdened with such things. The fact that every trade union defends its own profession has clearly emerged. That is how I defend the profession of police, and I would not want the police officers to do police work, but this is how they do all over Finland. In my opinion, in this way and with these examples, nurses should be allowed to write prescriptions in the future. You don't have to bother doctors with this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u22	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u23	Mr President! The Parliament now has a report from the Board of Governors from 17 C.E. As usual, the report now contains descriptions of the activities and administration of the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority during the reporting year, and includes six articles focusing on specific topical themes. The first of these concerns the ECB’s objective of price stability and its implementation in the euro area, China’s indebtedness and the risks involved, as well as the state and development of the Banking Union in the future. There are also two articles on the change of Nordea's place of residence. The first considers the importance of the change from a macro-prudential point of view of the financial system and the second considers what the change means for banking supervision. The latest special theme paper deals with digitalisation in the financial markets. Mr President! With regard to the economic development of the euro area and the ECB's monetary policy, I would like to make just two brief points: Firstly, 17 was the fourth consecutive year of economic growth in the euro area. The growth was quite wide-ranging among the euro area countries. Secondly, inflation accelerated from the previous year but was still slower than the ECB's target. Inflation forecasts also remained moderate during the reporting year. As a result, monetary policy continued to revitalize the entire reporting year. Mr President! As far as the Bank of Finland is concerned, I would like to raise two points: First of all, the Board of Directors of the Bank of Finland now that this year is included will change completely during this parliamentary term. In February of the reporting year, Marja Nykänen and Olli Rehn began as members of the Board of Directors of the Bank of Finland, and now this summer the President and CEO will be replaced due to the retirement of Director General Erkki Liikanen, and Olli Rehn has been appointed as President and CEO. A third board member is currently in office. The Board of Governors considers that the Board has acted well in its current form, i.e. three members, which is the minimum set by law. Secondly, the performance of the central bank's tasks and the investment of its own financial assets will generate income for the Bank of Finland, but on the other hand it will also face different risks. The Bank’s Board of Governors has regularly monitored their development and we note that there has been no significant change in the risk profile of the Bank of Finland. The Bank has a financial asset of approximately EUR 14.1 billion. When investing in this asset, the Bank of Finland is exposed to both credit and liquidity risks and market risks. Market risks include exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. At the end of 17, the combined risks of financial assets and monetary policy amounted to EUR 1.9 billion, excluding those related to gold. The calculated risk figure remained almost unchanged from the previous year. The Bank’s overall assessment above includes the risks of the Bank of Finland’s financial assets and the Eurosystem’s monetary policy programme. This risk assessment includes the monetary policy operations at the Bank of Finland’s own risk and the contribution of the Bank of Finland’s capital key to the Eurosystem’s risk. At the end of 17, the Bank of Finland’s total equity amounted to EUR 8.8 billion, and the Bank’s Board of Governors’ view is that the solvency of the Bank of Finland was sufficient at the end of the reporting year to cover the risks arising from the performance of the Bank’s tasks. Mr President! With regard to financial supervision: First of all, it operates administratively in connection with the Bank of Finland but is independent of it in its decision-making. The Board of Governors is responsible for overseeing the overall relevance and efficiency of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority and is responsible for appointing the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Director, acting on a proposal from the Board of Directors. The following four issues may be raised as regards the functioning of the Financial Supervisory Authority: First of all, although this was after the reporting year in spring 18, the Board of Governors appointed Marja Nykänen to be a member of the Board of the Financial Supervisory Board on April 1st this year and appointed her to chair it at the same time. Secondly, the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority has provided the Board of Directors with a report on the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority for the reporting year 17 and has published the Financial Supervisory Authority's activity report. On the basis of these reports, discussions at the Banking Council meeting and other information received, the Banking Board estimates that the objective of the Financial Supervisory Authority’s activities under the Act has been fulfilled. From the perspective of the overall effectiveness of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Board of Directors estimates that the Financial Supervisory Authority has managed the constantly changing field of supervision in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Thirdly, the financial sector has changed and is constantly changing. For Finland, it is a big thing that Nordea's Annual General Meeting decided in March 18 to transfer its head office to Finland. As a result of this change, the size of the banking sector in Finland will increase approximately three times the GDP ratio and Nordea's migration will bring new tasks to the Financial Supervisory Board and require additional resources for supervision. As I said at the outset, the importance of Nordea's transformation is further considered in two specific thematic writings. They provide information on what migration means for macro-prudential and banking supervision. Fourthly and lastly, in relation to financial supervision, I highlight the indebtedness of households and the risks it poses in the financial sector and in the wider national economy: Both the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority have warned about the indebtedness of households and their growth in Finland. This development, i.e. an increase in indebtedness, has been going on for some 20 years. The Financial Supervisory Authority has stated, among other things, that household indebtedness is the most significant vulnerability of the Finnish financial system. High debt can also have indirect macro-economic consequences, as domestic demand for consumption in Finland has a significant impact on economic development. High indebtedness increases the risks of fluctuations in consumer demand if economic development deteriorates. The growth in the indebtedness rate of Finnish households has also attracted attention from international organisations such as the European Systemic Risk Board and the IMF. This issue has also been regularly discussed by the Banking Council throughout its three-year period. The rise in the debt ratio has been influenced by both the growth of the mortgage stock, the growth of community loans and the growth of consumer credit. One example of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority is the fact that the Financial Supervisory Authority recently, in March, tightened the so-called maximum credit ratio for loans not taken for the purpose of acquiring a first-time residence. Extortion increased the ratio by 5 percentage points to 85 per cent. This measure contributed to curbing the increase in indebtedness. On several occasions, the Financial Supervisory Authority has also called on banks to avoid longer repayment periods as well as long repayment periods unless there are specific reasons for them and other measures have been taken. Concerns about an increase in household indebtedness in general, and in particular about an increase in the number of mortgage loans, are justified. For example, the risks associated with the indebtedness of housing communities may not yet be fully understood. For the time being, that's what I'm talking about. However, the rapid growth of the loan portfolio cannot be addressed directly or easily by public authorities. The Financial Supervisory Authority recently published a report assessing the credit granting criteria and risks associated with the construction of credit institutions and mortgage loans. In this context, the Financial Supervisory Authority issued further guidance on credit granting criteria and risk assessment. The Financial Supervisory Authority also announced that, in its future audits, it will pay increasing attention to the fact that credit institutions will also pay due attention to mortgage loans when assessing the customer’s ability to pay. The increase in household indebtedness rates and associated risks are another example of the need to address potential financial sector vulnerabilities and their emergence. Regulatory means must be up-to-date, appropriate and effective. The Banking Council itself does not have the power to set these limits and measures, but the Financial Supervisory Authority does them independently, but I would like to say and stress to the banks in particular that the Financial Supervisory Authority has the full support of the Banking Council. Throughout this period, we have encouraged the Financial Supervisory Authority in its activities, and there is a readiness for further action on the political side. I dare to interpret this in the light of the discussions that have taken place within the Council for three years. In the short term, the construction chain and the cities of rapid growth will certainly find themselves benefiting from fast lending, but history is merciless in this respect. Macro-stability must be ensured in time. Mr President! Finally, the balance sheet total of the Bank of Finland at the end of the reporting year 17 was EUR 111 billion and the annual result for the reporting year was EUR 156 million and the Board of Governors decided that EUR 52 million of the profit for the reporting year would be used to raise the reserve fund and the rest, EUR 104 million, would be transferred to the needs of the State.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u24	Madam President! Mario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank, said 26. ‘The ECB shall use all its means to save the euro. “ [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] So Draghi's promise has kept the euro going. Problems have not been eliminated; vice versa. The indebtedness of the so-called crisis countries has continued, structural reforms have been limited, corruption continues and so on. It is only through the ECB that responsibilities have been passed on to the taxpayers of the euro countries that have handled their affairs, including the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u29	Madam President! Without commenting on the speculations of the breakdown of the euro, or not to mention the attempt to break down the euro zone, I agree with what Mr Kankaanniemi has said about the very quietness of the analysis of the exceptional monetary policy measures taken by the ECB, the EUR 2300 billion mentioned by Mr Kankaanniemi, which has been pushed into the market by this decision. How does it break down, what kind of market failure has it caused to interest rates, markets, also stock exchange rates, because part of the funding is also in stock exchange rates, and so on? I do not know what kind of debate has taken place in the banking council — when our group does not have representation there — but it is interesting that it is in some way a silent topic that does not really formally discuss this huge financial operation, which had much positive, much stabilising effect but also has its own problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u30	President! After all, the situation in Italy is worrying. Where did they start? There has been a start on unwarranted electoral promises and the situation has arisen that it is a considerable difficulty to form a government, and it is reflected in the pricing of state loans: two-year bonds have suddenly jumped to the 2013 price level. At the same time, proposals will be made to increase solidarity at EU level — many types of proposals that have been discussed here in Parliament — but then again in Italy the question of whether these sovereign loans could be forgiven in some way. Now there are also these exceptional measures taken by the ECB and, equally, what Mr Uotila well thought about here: how to push these exceptional measures down. At the end of the day, I believe that these are irresponsible electoral promises, whether they be supplementary pensions for pensioners or irresponsible freedom of choice. Irresponsibility is irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u31	Mr President! I should like to comment on this debate from Italy, because it is very timely. I noticed a rather surprising statement on Sunday in Helsingin Sanomat. Commissioner Katainen took a position on solidarity. He expressed some regret about what he said, which has been critical of it, and understandably this speech gave rise to a lot of debate. Today I was even more surprised when he took a stand in the following article and compared these conference talks with the Solidarity Collection. It must be said now that solidarity gathering is based on voluntary assistance in the spirit of Christianity, and European solidarity certainly should not be based on voluntary and, in all respects, on the Christian spirit. In this respect, I must say that I disagree exactly with Mrs Katainen's views, and we must now give Mr Ala-Nissila this time, who I found very skilful about these statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u32	Mr President! We do not need to use Mr Viitanen's reply this time, because it was quite excellent. First of all, I would like to say that it is a good thing that the Bank of Finland has been managed very professionally during the previous Director General, and now it is certainly the case in Olli Rehn's time. It is good that the Chairman of the Banking Council has a very firm hand in the management of the Bank of Finland, and in this respect we can be pleased. Indeed, as far as these elephant promises are concerned, that is what is going on. Isn't that, Mr. Kankaanniemi, the Five-Star Movement is kind of like your brother's party? Or is it Mr. Harkimo's brother party?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u35	Then there are three answers: Mr Hoskonen, Mr Eestilä, Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u36	Madam President! Indeed, this loan purchase programme of the European Central Bank is worrying in itself, because it has opened a thorn in the Finnish Government's programme this season, so to speak. There will be no additional responsibilities, but it is certain that the next government, whatever its appearance or colour, will have to take a stand on that matter. But the big thing about this is that in all European countries it is now time to take seriously the fact that this kind of hurlumhe life and living in debt must be brought to an end. It also applies to Finland. Among other things, these reforms are being carried out, which I am surprised to find objectionable in this House. But the other thing that Mr Vanhanen, as President of the Banking Council, was very good at is this household debt, and it is very worrying on that side. At the moment, the exposures to households through mortgage loans are small during the low interest rate, but when you pop, it's really serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u37	Mr President! This morning we were able to read a fairly comprehensive article on the situation in Italy in Helsingin Sanomat, where loans amount to more than 2200 billion and 136 per cent of GDP. That is how critical this situation is, without being a pessimist, because if this goes down on top of the crisis, then interest will go up, and what will happen to these housing debtors and what will happen to the Finnish economy will unfortunately not be judged, because it will be quite hard after that, but of course it has been feared. Too much pessimism is not good, but when it comes to criticising this purchase programme for the ECB's assets, which is currently EUR 30 billion, and the Governing Council has stated that they can expand and expand the purchase programme, what do you think, should this not have been and should not have been against economic growth, because that is the reverse? This is a revitalising policy, as many people in this Chamber have always wanted. If anyone here is judging and criticizing it, please make your own choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u38	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissila, I have said what the problems are, namely that there has not been enough anti-corruption work in these countries, no structural reforms and so on, and that is why the situation is still very bad, and the ECB has not really imposed any conditions on these countries. Greece was disciplined, but no more Italy. As far as this debate in general is concerned, experts were consulted in the Committee on Finance in November and then in the spring period. With regard to the deepening of EMU and these reforms, the statements were made, we had a different opinion and it went to a large committee, but here in the big Chamber we have not received this huge, very important dossier at all. In fact, if I may, Madam President, I would appeal to you to do everything possible to allow a very deep debate to take place in this Chamber on the EMU policy and the Finnish policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u39	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u40	Madam President! After these good speeches, I will focus on a little simpler issues. On page 19 of the account, we are told about the coins and notes that I am interested in as a numismatic, and we would certainly all wish we had at least a little more than we have at present. The Bank of Finland ensures that Finns have access to euro cash: banknotes and coins. As in other euro countries, the vast majority of the euro banknotes are distributed to the public in Finland through a thinning automated network. The task of the Bank of Finland is to check the authenticity and fitness of euro banknotes returning to circulation, while removing unfit banknotes and replacing them with new ones. Cash is still a competitive means of payment, although different electronic means of payment are already a reality. The use of cash requires that it is available via the distribution network and that the payee accepts the payment as a cash payment instrument. The task of the Bank of Finland is to monitor changes in the cash distribution network and the acceptability of cash in different payment transactions. The Bank of Finland also uses consumer surveys to measure satisfaction with the availability of cash, in fact it has been doing so for 10 years. According to a survey conducted in October last year, consumer satisfaction with cash availability has continued to be good. 84 per cent of respondents were still satisfied with the availability of cash. Apparently, the inquiry was not answered in the Summer Bay or Lake Tohma, where money is no longer available from the cash machine at the bank’s decision. Perhaps numismatics are most interested in the decision that euro banknotes are gradually moving towards a renewed series of Europa banknotes. Last year, the banknotes were exchanged with a 50 euro banknote, which, alongside the 20 euro banknote in Finland, is a central banknote in automatic distribution. The design of the new banknote has changed slightly due to the improvement of security features. Money is still being counterfeited, as it was before. According to the report, the number of counterfeit euro banknotes normalised over the last year from the previous year's derogation figure to paragraph 769. There were 957 counterfeit coins. Madam President! The Bank of Finland has been responsible for the adequacy of the spending money on the mandate of the Ministry of Finance in Finland and has commissioned the Mint of Finland to prepare the spending money for the Bank of Finland since the 1860s. Similarly, the Bank of Finland has used commercial banks and banks for distribution to its citizens until 2013. Since 2013, Finland has not had normal spending at nominal prices from 1 cent to 2 cents, even though they have been manufactured and distributed in similar cash rolls. Similarly, the so-called ‘special twos’ of EUR 2 were still covered by Article 59 of the VAT Act, as was the case with all the operating money before 2013. But since the beginning of 2016, they have been taxable, i.e. a coin with a nominal price and a value of EUR 2 is EUR 2 48 cents in Finland plus delivery and postal costs. Similarly, in other countries using the euro in the EU regions, a special €2 issue can be purchased from central banks at nominal prices on a cash roll basis. It must sound strange, even though we should be treated in Finland in the same way as in other EU countries. The reason for the Finnish Mint's VAT tax is that the VAT is deductible for the value-added trader, i.e. the buyer. In addition, the Finnish Mint adds a fair delivery fee compared to the previous distribution, i.e. the cost of commercial banks. This VAT determination is even more amazing because almost at the same time the same money is calculated for circulation on the same money rolls at nominal prices. There are a lot of young collectors in Finland and the EU region who want to collect special euros from different countries. Such an additional tax on the purchase of these funds is unnecessary and in no way fair or fair, and this should be addressed at least in the case of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u41	Madam President! Let me briefly turn to this world of money and the phenomenon of moral hazard. However, I would like to start by saying, as I said in that reply, that in Finland, which is part of the European System of Central Banks, the Bank of Finland has been well managed and the operations of both the bank's management and the banking council have been very consistent in recent times, and I would like to acknowledge that. The bank council report also tells about it. Indeed, we are living in a somewhat more troubled time in Europe as a result of the situation in Italy. There, as has been said, the two largest electoral winners made so-called elephant promises, that is, great promises of spending increases and tax reductions, even debt forgiveness on the part of other Europeans. This is a very worrying phenomenon when it comes to the common banking system. After all, this moral hazard means taking risks on others or putting expenses on others. It must have been a phenomenon in the United States in the 19th century, when it was discovered that under bad economic conditions, houses with a lower collateral value had started to burn, and insurance companies were obviously concerned about this. It put risks on other people's hands. Well, it has been said in Finland that when the recession occurs, sawmill fires become more common. There may also be a moral hazard effect. It is much wider: in the context of the financial crisis, we saw a great deal of this phenomenon. The Central Bank of Ireland announced that it will guarantee all the loans that exist. After that, a great deal of money went to the banks in Italy, and the promises became very expensive when it was seen that risks could be transferred to the Bank of Italy, and risk loans were also transferred there. There were many other phenomena during the financial crisis. As I said, solidarity is important and it is also needed, and that is what exists in the European System of Central Banks. In theory, the best solidarity is that everyone is responsible for the condition of their own economy, everyone is responsible for jointly agreed commitments. That's the best kind of solidarity. It is important that market pressure is maintained. If we are thinking of Greece, which is now on a good path, then it was only there, however, that this market pressure, too, brought about a recovery. When no more money came out of the bank’s wall, simply no money came out of the bank’s wall, people found that this life could not go on, but that public finances must be healthy and should be tried to restore it. Now the Greeks hopefully learn from this, even though their history is not very good. In other words, it is important, as the Finnish Government's line is in the context of the European Union and the European Monetary Union, to maintain market pressure, that each Member State should first and foremost put its own economy in order. The Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Katainen, spoke in a rather mysterious way about increasing solidarity. He said that he regretted what he said when he was Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Jutta Urpilainen. Perhaps then we went a little further in criticising solidarity, but now this is clearly going in the other direction, and the timing is very bad. At this stage of the Italian crisis, the Commission should not get the message that something is going to get loose here, even if it is a little complicated. So this is what I'm wondering. I noticed Mr. Viitanen wondering about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u44	Madam President! It is actually nice to start by saying that quite often, by the way, in these discussions on the Bank of Finland and when we talk about the current situation in the euro area, for example, I can find common ground with Mr Ala-Nissilä. He concluded his speech well by saying that he agrees with the need to have more debate on the future and challenges of EMU in this big House, and I also warmly support that idea. We have often hoped for it as social democrats and used it a lot in this Chamber. I would like that debate to be conducted quite strongly in this House and in this very large Chamber. There is a great system in Finland that European issues are already dealt with proactively in a large committee. It differs from the situation in many parliaments. We are pioneers here, but that does not eliminate the fact that, despite this, the debate in the big room should be even more closely present. President! To begin with, I would also like to draw this particular attention to the fact that, overall, I find this report very interesting to read and a good publication on economic policy in the sense that, for example, this report has now brought together these very interesting specific themes on the ECB's price stability, China, banking union, Nordea's situation and digitalisation in the financial markets. Surely all of this is extremely interesting to read to each of us. I would also like to comment briefly on the fact that, in my opinion, it has been important that the ECB's own monetary policy has been light, because it has enabled economic growth, growth and employment to improve and, in this respect, these favourable winds from the world have also partly made it possible for us to have positive winds, particularly through the ECB's monetary policy, and I therefore consider this to be an important issue in itself. Among other things, President Vanhanen — thanks to him for a good introduction — reported that both the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority have drawn attention to the indebtedness of households. It is another very topical phenomenon. I myself have often wondered when I look at the news of these increased corporate loans and remember that, in these times, it is certainly also possible for this debate to take place from the point of view that the world may not always be like this, that interest rates are at this level. Therefore, these risks should be well known to people today that what can be followed if the interest rate situation or other changes overall. Well, then, in fact, Mr President, I would like to return to this current situation in Italy, which Mr Ala-Nissila spoke well before. In relation to that, just when we know the situation there is, we know that instability, economic uncertainty is increasing all the time, not to mention all these big promises that were thrown into the air, which are certainly still unforgettable, the situation seems particularly worrying. That is why, as I said in that debate, there was a rather strange time and I did not understand why Vice-President Katainen spoke in this speech, in which he regretted his own earlier statements on the dangers of increasing solidarity. It came at a strange time, and I thought it was a rather surprising speech in itself. However, despite the fact that he had a little further discussion with himself, the fact was that Katainen has now regretted his talk of solidarity, which I do not think is a problem-free matter. I will return to the time when Katainen's own government really was, and we have Jutta Urpilainen as Minister of Finance. I believe that this line was entirely correct, as we were doing in the European Union at the time: we did not want to increase solidarity and we were in a tight line, among other things, with regard to these Greek aid packages. We all remember how Minister Urplainen — just as he promised before the elections — fought a rather difficult battle for Finland to obtain these guarantees for its own contributions and to promote not only the development of the ESM but also, for example, the investor responsibility, which then became part of this European stability mechanism, and many good things were done precisely on the basis of a strict line. I think it is quite the right line to take in a big picture, and it should not now be allowed to relax with those speeches, that suddenly we regret that we have said that solidarity should not be increased. So in this respect I am on the line of Mr Ala-Nissilä to the strongest extent and I would really like to remind you that you would think today that the situation in Italy would make us all think. Who, in this situation, wants to build a common economy with Italy? I'm sure the Harvapa can. And one might conclude that nothing has been learned from Greece.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u45	Mr President! There was a good debate here just now and I would like to return to this European Central Bank asset purchase programme. However, it has been one injection of this whole economic recovery, and it cannot be denied, and if we were to speculate now that it would not have been a good start at all, it would have prevented economic growth quite a lot, I believe. At the moment, we too in Finland are enjoying part of it because of the increase in employment and the reduction in our general government deficit. That is a good thing and a positive thing, but these responsibilities are bound to be the downside of it. Perhaps what I would like to draw attention to in my speech is why this has been done, which is why the printing works have been made to sing, so that we can get inflation to a slightly higher level than it is now. That is the problem, as far as I understand it, that we will not be able to achieve and the European Central Bank will not be able to achieve the target of inflation of just under 2%, but because of the pressure of deflation from the world, inflation will not even want to go on with a stimulating monetary policy. We do not know what is happening in Italy, but at least my own view is that confidence in political decision-makers is the currency with which to play and, as we see in Italy when confidence is not there, interest rates are rising right away. If it starts to spread elsewhere in the euro area, then anything could happen. But the other side to which I referred when this money has been put on the market relates to Finland. Yes, in the same way as Mr Vanhanen points out that, when households are in debt, loan money and revitalizing money have gone into real estate and the housing market, and there is now a clear accumulation of risks which, at least in the Parliament of MPs, must be addressed, be the responsibility of anyone, and the measures that are being taken to impose this in some way, because this also has to do with the partly questionable growth of consumer credit, these quick-lease and other jobs. At present, households' total debt amounts to 147 billion, 77% of which is very high, and this is where the money has gone and has heated the housing market at least in certain growth centres. But one of these specialties, which is worth talking about here from the toilet, is the increase in mortgages, for they have increased in this decade by about 10 billion. Today, when the buyer, the investor can access the apartment with a 20 percent share of the real price of the dwelling and then the rest is a mortgage company and no one really controls what the buyer’s real potential is when the economy changes to take care of this housing company loan, which then falls into the arms of the other shareholders and into the arms of the housing company, there is such a peculiarity that my economic mathematics does not quite understand. When there is a maintenance charge and a financial consideration, which law has such a clause that suddenly this repayment of the debt becomes a deductible item from the rent? This is what happens when the housing company pays these financial charges in its accounts. In that case, the investor, the owner of the dwelling, can deduct the repayment of the debt, i.e. the financial consideration and the maintenance charge. It is then that taxpayers in practice support the purchase of a dwelling. I do not know how well it fits in with this situation, that tax euros support housing construction and investment that poses a clear risk of overheating and over-indebtedness. In this way, as a Member of Parliament from Eastern Finland, I would like to draw attention at least to whether it is fair if a taxpayer somewhere in Eastern Finland, where the value of his own property is constantly falling and the value of the property is calculated on the basis of the real price of a dwelling, is constantly losing his property, but is still forced to support investment in tax euros where housing production is quite lively and investment activity is lively. Yes, there should be some way of addressing this question as to whether there is a problem of justice. At least I myself would find as a remedy what Parliament could prescribe that the tax values of real estate tax have been calculated in such a way that they are as close as possible to the real value of the property. It's already justice. Then this same problem involves a matter — here one evening I was talking about the same thing — which I repeat: When this financial consideration can then be deducted from the rent, if the housing company pays for it in the accounts, this has led to the first cases of legal murder. In other words, the Supreme Administrative Court, in its yearbook, stated that a person who had bought such a dwelling had paid off this mortgage but had not reduced the financial consideration for any rent, was not allowed to calculate the payment of the debt to the benefit of determining the purchase price of the dwelling, but received a tax slip from the tax authority that he would be subject to a profit tax in practice for the kind of transfer that he would never actually have had. This is the annual book decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. So this is what we should do in some way to intervene when people have experienced this kind of injustice that in the future such practice would not be. I do not know what law to change, whether it is an accounting law or what, but some kind of change to the law should be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u46	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here, including Mr Eestilä on this property tax. However, I would like to return to this Italian problem, which has already been dealt with with with a great deal of credit. Italy is, as it were, in a situation where, for years and decades, sovereign debt has only increased, and it has always been used to winning the elections by making more promises. The Renz government deserves to score for trying to make some sense of this. As a result, the elections won those who promised even harder promises than anyone had previously promised. And this is a doctrine that we too must take seriously to keep our temper in these election promises. And in the final analysis, it has now happened in Italy that, after eating from the children’s table all the time, many people are already feeling the situation of young people, as if it were so difficult that any hook someone throws is ready to grab, and so the risk is that we will go much deeper. Just as Mr Ala-Nissila said here, and Mr Viitanen referred to it, this pressure on the market will work. However, the situation in Italy is very challenging: it is as if the people were to learn to accept that improving competitiveness must be done by changing structures and also by changing labour market structures and economic structures and not by simply promising a low level of equal tax and civil pay, not to mention the fact that other countries are now required to be involved in debt reduction. I mean, these are impossible speeches, aren't they? Mr President! Perhaps a little more about this domestic problem. This increase in indebtedness in households is indeed a very bad thing, given that we are now in an economic situation where the economy is growing, employment is increasing, more than 90 000 people are working than at the beginning of this parliamentary term, the incomes of small entrepreneurs have increased, there are quite a few sectors that are clearly doing better than they were in the past and, despite this, household debt is at a record rate, so it is necessary to intervene in this matter. One way is that this debt has been too easy, for example in the area of consumer credit. Fortunately, this matter has already been taken up in the government and more is being done, but this is actually one problem that will come up against us very soon if no solution is found.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u47	Mr President! There is no misconception that I am somehow sorry that the ECB started these massive monetary policy measures and thus stabilized this crisis: I do not disagree with that, but I believe that the repercussions must be analysed. Perhaps there is a connection, while at the same time lamenting the high level of debt in our households or businesses? Just as we can go back to history in it, so we can remember the times when there was a debate about whether we should try to save Portugal and try to save Spain, whether we should try to save Greece. In retrospect, I'm sure it was a good idea to try and keep it together, but we have to be able to analyse the consequences. This Italy: There has been reference to today's Hesar news from Italy, but both the Italian news and the Hungarian news in the same magazine was accompanied by a consortium. Why are young people in Italy, for example, so bitter, angry, not trusting the European Union? One reason is that there is no solidarity in what the Italians have found very important, and that is this immigration policy and solidarity in it. In Hungary, a Member State of the European Union is making laws that are going to criminalise the assistance of asylum seekers, immigrants, all kinds of assistance, and are becoming increasingly ferocious, even with reference to the Constitution. It is also a matter of solidarity that, when it comes to solidarity with the economy, solidarity within the European Union and the euro area should also be extended. Otherwise, these pressures will come, and I at least understand the criticism that comes from Italian youth in this regard when they experience the pressure that is constantly being exerted on them across the Mediterranean. I do not know then — now that the situation in Italy is difficult, now that this operation of the ECB has already been carried out, of course, one of the chips has been used, the means available, and I do not want to see the Finnish taxpayers rush to rescue the Italian banks. Italy itself must be able to change its political system, its government and its decision-makers and its policies in such a way that they are responsible for their own responsibilities, but these different dimensions are involved. And when someone was still referring to Greece — I think there was Mr Ala-Nissila and perhaps someone else — it must be remembered that In Greece, this became a problem of public finances only after this international financial crisis, which left the United States, led to the need to rescue the German and French banks, which were recklessly financing Greece. The public sector didn't get into any trouble until it was delayed. From now on, in all circumstances, these measures must draw attention to the fact that the focus is on helping people and on saving banks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u48	Mr President! Mr Satonen himself drew attention to the very right concern, namely the high level of household debt. But he may have ignored the fact that debt and the economic cycle are not synchronized, but the debt has been cumulated precisely in these recession years, when the only bright spot in the Finnish economy has been the private consumption of a recession that has been deeper than anywhere else in Europe and longer and, calculated by GDP, more severe than the early 1990s recession, when normally it may be assumed that if this growth continues for some time, this debt burden will also decrease for households. But we have no guarantee that growth will be sustainable. I believe that this is the main objective of all the parties in this House, even in the next parliamentary term, to ensure that growth and employment are on a sustainable basis. As far as the situation in Italy is concerned, the great tragedy is that it slows down the joint actions of European monetary union, which could, for example, alleviate phenomena such as the financial crisis and the debt crisis in the future. It is now clear that the attitude towards this kind of cooperation is quite critical. It is just a terrible pity that in Italy there was a reformist centre-left government which, together with Emmanuel Macron, who was then a minister in France, put forward sound alternative policies in itself as an alternative to the economic discipline model led by Germany, it was not good enough, but the German model was pushed through with the support of Finland as well. The result was that the Italians did not have the chance that through such a rational reform things could move forward, but rather go from side to side, either that the EU appoints a faceless technocrat who has not been elected to lead such a protectorate, or so that on the other side such irresponsible populists take over. And one cannot help but marvel at the Italian President's way of thinking here: if the reason why populists have received so much popularity for unwarranted promises is that an outside bureaucrat has been appointed to lead this country instead of democratically elected leaders, and if it is the source of criticism, then it is a strange conclusion that it is precisely such a person who is appointed Prime Minister, even temporarily.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u49	President! Briefly, and I would like to thank the President of the Banking Council, who has again been a great pilot there for a year. This debate has focused entirely on those fundamental issues, namely the indebtedness of households and how it can be properly taken over. This is where Mr Estilä made a very good reflection, and these must be carefully considered whether we could really think about some measures which might then prevent it from making a loan to the housing company, or at least some relaxation on that side. As for the cancellation of the ECB's purchase programmes and whether the ECB's measures have been correct, I think it is quite fair to say at the moment that they have been in the right and the right direction, but have they been overcompensated, have they, however, come to such a situation that, in fact, it is difficult to do so? On top of that, it does not quite have what was actually being pursued, that is to say the break-up of the link between banks and states. As far as Italy is concerned, the situation in Italy shows us very well that it is very damaging to make these over-conceived and unwarranted electoral promises. You shouldn't go in here and do that. Then I would like to highlight this good theme of 6 in the field of digitalisation banking. All the digitalisation that is taking place on the fintech side has been ignored here: changes in payments, bitcoins and other blockchain currencies, payment instruments based on blockchain technology. This is a very interesting phenomenon in itself, because, in fact, these blockchain currencies are one of the components of an intelligent economy that allows intelligent contracts to be concluded, and we cannot really prevent them from being created anymore. As we cannot prevent shares, for example, we cannot prevent blockchain currencies in the future either. In fact, these block chains will create us a new web 3.0. The world we are in now is web 2.0, and we jump from it to a completely new world, where all the good that the Internet brings us is shared a little differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u50	Mr President! I listened to this conversation in the study and decided to come here and say a few words about Italy. Of course, it is extremely important for the European Central Bank and the euro countries to complete the third phase of the Banking Union, and this third stage will of course include the deposit guarantee fund as an integral part. This agreement has not progressed for justifiable reasons: because the European banking system is in a different state in different euro countries. It is clear that in Italy the banking system has a very large number of unsettled credits, unlike, for example, Finland, where there is a fairly well-functioning banking system. Well, here, of course, what worries me a little bit is that, when it was said earlier in the debate about Italy that the Italians themselves should take care of their own banking system, that is the case, but it is not going to work with the Italians, and obviously there is not a great deal of motivation or willingness to do so, and so the Commission has taken action here. This is, in fact, the concern that these unsettled credits will then be managed in the securities market. This is, of course, a fear that these unsettled loans through securities markets will then be borne by the real economy, and that is perhaps the concern, because there will then be changes in the realisation of fixed collateral, the legislative changes which will then come from the Commission in the form of a directive. At the moment, we are negotiating what form it will take, but of course it is worrying if the court proceedings are completely overturned. Of course then, if there is no such national margin for this given — in Finland there is a good system in this respect — if the Commission insists on such a harmonised system which is forced to be introduced in all euro countries, then it will certainly speed up this [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u53	Mr President! Where a representative: In his good speech here, Vähämäki wondered whether this programme for the purchase of ECB assets had been oversized, at least if compared with the objective — the objective of the ECB has been to have inflation of just under 2% — so if negative interest rates and banknote funding do not lead to inflation, then it will have to be asked whether it is at least oversized. At least this suggests that it is even undersized. And what needs to be taken into account here is that when all this fiscal policy and money movements and interest rates and what is then followed by a falcon's eye and where the statements of leading politicians are viewed are psychology and confidence, then these speeches in this Chamber are hardly very much wavering interest rate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u56	Mr President! It is quite true, by the way, that these are such interesting questions that it would, of course, be possible to have more people there. But, by the way, I believe that these discussions will be followed closely by the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Finland — what the Parliament says, what kind of feedback comes from the committees’ reports, and also what kind of debate is taking place in this Chamber. I think it is important, this is an important forum for discussion, and it is therefore a good thing that the representatives take a stand on these matters in this Chamber. As far as the ECB's policy is concerned, I also see that it is precisely the fact that the ECB adopted these guidelines for this light monetary policy and economic recovery, yes, and for a very large part, that it also explains, President, that today the Finnish economy has been in a mood and that we have stimulated economic growth. It is an integral part of this equation, and that is why I think it must be viewed from this very point of view from the perspective of Finland. President! It is also important, of course, that, as a whole, the various responsibilities that arise through the European Union, whether it is the policy of the Central Bank or these financial programmes or whatever, the Parliament is able to monitor, monitor and monitor the risks, the overall responsibility. For example, the Bank of Finland’s report has traditionally covered these risks quite well, what it is. For example, on page 29, I think there is a rather important and illustrative table of how we could then respond to this if it were to be the most unlikely and most unfortunate thing that this risk would begin to materialise in some way. Here is an analysis of the fact that this is manageable and reproducible. And just as Mr Vanhanen went through in his own presentation, this is something the Banking Council is following.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u57	Mr President! Financial supervision and the Bank of Finland will probably follow up on what is being discussed in this Chamber, but yes these issues, which are now being discussed, for example, the increase in the debts of the housing company and the increase in the debt of private citizens, at least as far as I am aware, have come as a warning from the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority, and we are also excited to discuss them. [Quick Five] But as far as Finland is concerned, I would take a slightly more specific view of this, that the European economy was on the increase for a long time even before Finland became involved in economic growth. How, then, did Finland usually remain outside? This was because we did not have enough international competitiveness. The fact that the world economy is pulling is in the background, and that is a good thing, but the fact that you can get involved in economic growth requires Finland to have international competitiveness to enter international markets, and this is where you have to put your hat on the government. The government has taken such measures together with the social partners, including the Kiki Agreement, which is an important part of this improvement in competitiveness, but Finland was able to participate in this economic development with a delay — thanks to these government decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u58	Mr President! This little one seems to be showing signs that we will return to this domestic economic policy debate. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say that I also think it is worth looking a little in the mirror at the government in that I remember that a few economic scholars have confirmed that Finland's economy has started to grow, mainly with luck, which refers to the fact that the world economy has been in a positive mood and that the ECB has made such a light monetary policy. But, as has been said, we are all glad that the economy is growing, and it may be pointless to spend minutes arguing about whose benefit it is. After all, as social democrats here in Finland, we have raised the concern that, now that it is good that the economy is growing, and it is right, it is therefore even more important in the economic policy sense to ask whether growth belongs to everyone, and to pay attention to how much we are doing financially if we allow inequalities to continue. In that regard, it would be good and important to see that if people are constantly cutting their purchasing power, the low-income ones are disciplined, very drastic educational cuts are made, which all economic scholars warn us about, then we will drive ourselves from ditch to ally. It would therefore now be important for the government to make its own political value choices on a slightly different basis, not only in terms of justice but also in terms of economic growth. But, President, I think it is important and good that we have had this debate here today, and it will probably continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u59	President! After all, it is a question of balance sheets. The question is how well society can withstand shocks. Now that the government’s balance sheet and debt are in some way under control and the debt ratio is about to break, the balance sheet of companies and partnerships has also been obtained in the right direction. Local government finances have also turned in a good direction. But when you see that the balance sheet of private households is changing, i.e. that there is a significant increase in indebtedness, it can be said that this economic growth is very much caused by that private indebtedness. This is, therefore, the reflection that the members of the Banking Council have also done quite widely. It must be pointed out to households that it is not possible to do so if society wants to have more tolerance for shock. If we have the balance sheets in order, then we are not so threatened by an outside shock.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u60	Mr President! I would say to Mr Viitan that I personally believe that nothing happens with luck in the economy. A tough economy happens if you happen to win a bet or this type of thing, but if you talk at national level, at European level, at global level, it does not happen with luck. There are a lot of mortgage laws in the economy that affect each other. It's either luck or luck that doesn't control these economics. As far as this domestic economy is concerned, we had such a situation before the exports went off — I remember that in this Chamber, too, many speeches were started by saying that things were going badly and that exports were not doing so — that, however, our domestic markets were playing and we had domestic demand. But the Finnish economy has been built in such a way that, in the long term or even in the medium term, domestic demand is not enough to sustain our economy, but we are an export-driven economy, and this has meant that it is extremely important during the recession to put an end to the recession by getting exports back on track. To achieve this, we need the international competitiveness that has not existed in Finland. There may be a smile, but if we have a situation where, although there is demand in the world, our rival countries are more competitive than we are, it is so that exports do not pull. This international competitiveness: it is extremely important that Finland is able to compete with the quality of technology, but also at the price. We are not such a unique nation, Finland, that we have something to offer to the international market that no one else can do. This is the kind of thing that Finland's involvement in this required that there should be suction, but it also required that we achieve international competitiveness to the level that trade would take place. This is why these domestic solutions have been extremely important, but it has all been based on international demand,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u61	Mr President! If Mr Turunen does not believe me now, of course I would recommend an excellent article to him in Suomen Kuvalehti No. 16/2018, “The breeder is looking for”: “The decision has been made that the economy is changing in terms of growth.” It's from Scrooge Uusitalo. As far as I know, he has some economic policy assistance, and on 20 April he has written this. I read this article when it appeared, and I thought it was fine and analytical, and in that sense it is worth getting to know. But as far as these domestic measures are concerned, Mr President, I really do see that... Think of how much this competitiveness pact, which the government has broken through in this model with coercive threats and others, has in fact been doing this economic conversion — it is hard to say. For example, in the Committee on Budgets, a great many experts, whom we have heard in the course of the past few years, have expressed the same certainty as in the case of the wars that it is not possible to say very carefully that this agreement itself would have such a massive impact. It is, of course, a good thing that an agreement is made and an agreement is reached, but, indeed, in this situation, for example, we have called for that, when the growth was achieved — which is a good thing — then it must belong to everyone and, when there is a good situation, there is no point in continuing, for example, the cuts in the public sector holiday money for hard-working workers. I just read an article where the families told me how much they would then have to give up as a result of the vacation money being cut off, and I don't know how... It's not very nice for these families. That is wrong, and, in economic terms, too, I think it would be more sensible for the family to have the opportunity to spend this holiday money, for example, on shared time and other things. In other words, it also places a total bet on this economy, which we are talking about today. President! I would also like to say that, in these times when we are asking whether growth belongs to everyone, I do not think that the fact that unemployed people are being disciplined by these active models that fight against the sense of justice will contribute to any economic growth. It does not contribute to the employment of a person. In this domestic policy, Mr Turunen, we should think about these issues in a much broader scale and in depth and not just always hitting where people are at their weakest. And, at the same time, of course, economic policy has raised questions about the value choices that have been made, that there have been quite generous tax cuts for millions of inheritances and all that goes with the good guys. That is why this issue of halting the development of inequality is absolutely essential, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u62	Mr President! It is quite necessary to note that Finland's economy is investment-oriented and this leads to Finland generally falling into recession with a short delay, but also from the recessions and declines that depend on international trade and export demand, also because of this investment-oriented production. This may partly be due to the fact that, as with the delay, we managed to catch up with this economic growth in our region of export. If anyone actually claims that our international competitiveness was corrected by the forced imposition of six minutes longer days or by nurses, local nurses and others, then I disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u65	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 9/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u66	Mr President! Sitra’s Annual Activity Report on Finland’s Independence Fund last year is under discussion, and I will open the matter further on the basis of the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. The year 2017 was the 50th anniversary of Sitra’s activities. Even though Sitra's activities have changed dramatically during its existence, the core of the task as a builder of future well-being has remained and is equally topical in a 100-year-old Finland. From Sitra’s point of view, the key year was first and foremost the time to lay the foundations for the future and look ahead. The Committee on Economic Affairs considers that Sitra’s themes – the first to be a carbon-neutral circular economy, the second to be innovative, and the third to be a new working life and a sustainable economy – are relevant and essential, taking into account Sitra’s main role in building future prosperity. The Annual Report gives a clear picture of the progress made in these areas in 2017 and the actions planned for 2018. The Committee on Economic Affairs welcomes the fact that the road map of the circular economy has been paired with an operational programme drawn up in cooperation between Sitra and ministries, which has already begun to be implemented. At the end of the year, there were already about 40 projects promoted by Sitra. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs still considers it important to promote the circular economy theme both strategically and through the development of concrete projects and the legislative environment at national, European and international level. Mr President! This year, the current legislative project on Sitra is a reform of the so-called Sitra Act on the Finnish Fund for Independence, but also the ongoing changes to the joint administrative laws can have a decisive impact on Sitra’s ability to carry out its tasks flexibly. For example, the pending proposal for a new law on justice in administrative matters would extend the right of appeal to Sitra's decisions. This could significantly weaken and stiffen Sitra’s operating opportunities. The ability to act quickly, experimentally and flexibly without the risk of delaying or making decisions more difficult, e.g. through an appeal is essential for Sitra’s task. In view of the main purpose of its mission, Sitra's activities should not in this sense be compared with those of the authorities. This starting point should be taken into account in the future preparation of the change to the Sitra Act, and this should be taken into account in the coordination of the law on justice in administrative matters and the change to the Sitra Act. Mr President! Sitra’s role as a forward-looking, fast-acting actor also includes the role of an independent, independent social debate-opener. However, this debate inevitably has links with political value choices. It is therefore essential to ensure transparency of the starting points for action and positions, as well as parliamentary cooperation insofar as it falls within Parliament's decision-making powers. Similarly, for the next 50 years, there is a need to have an open debate on the future priorities of Sitra’s operations and to ensure that regulation makes it possible to implement the purpose of Sitra’s activities. Mr President! The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is that Parliament approve the opinion on the report in question. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u67	Mr President! I have looked at this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and this is where the very essential points have been addressed. One of our favorite children is the circular economy and its promotion. It is very nice that it has also been taken into account in this committee's opinion. I also welcome the fact that the committee is now taking a position on this debate on the future. After all, there was already some debate on this matter at the end of the referral, and even at the end of Sitra, we have been thinking about this — that is, ‘we’re’ referring to our discussion on the Board of Directors and our discussions. In fact, we had a little hope that Parliament would take a position here on how Parliament would best be able to outline in the future how Parliament sees Sitra's future, how Parliament sees Sitra's key tasks. This is also very up-to-date in the sense that this is also the case in Parliament. When the President-in-Office presented this draft report, it turned out that the legislation is being reformed and, of course, it would be wise for the legislation to be reformed in a way that takes into account Sitra's somewhat exceptional role as a certain kind of future house that needs agile, flexible forms in order to function. I therefore believe that in this report the committee has drawn attention to very important issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u68	Mr President! There is, of course, a slight repetition of an issue on which there is a very broad consensus. This report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was, of course, carried out carefully and in consultation with experts. This is an annual report, and the chairman of the committee has just presented this very well. Of course, Sitra’s activities over the past 50 years have changed a lot, become more diverse, but yet it has asked for these key issues: that Sitra could act as such a catalyst for social debate, as a feeder for political judgment. In it Sitra has done a good job of research, research and this kind of networking plus acquired such pilots and such experimental culture. On this question of Sitra's important tasks at the moment, I raise just one of the favourite topics, as Mr Viitanen said here. It has to do with this circular economy. Sitra helped Finland to be the first country in Europe to draw up a road map for a very comprehensive circular economy. This road map has also been welcomed in many other European countries, and it would therefore also be important for this circular economy to become a top priority in Finland during the Finnish Presidency, because we have a lot to offer in this debate. After all, Sitra’s Economic Forum rewarded Sitra as the world’s best public sector circular economy player. It is a pretty fine recognition of the work Sitra and other partners have done here. The need for legislative change was already referred to here, so that Sitra will continue to be not an agency but a future house like this that can act agilely, and that is why this legislative amendment is needed. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considered it important that such legislative work should be pursued, to which reference has already been made several times. But in addition to this, after 50 years of action, it is probably good to stop and think about this role of Sitra, the big tasks and the strategic place in society, and that is the kind of debate we need. In this work, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also wanted to emphasise that, when Sitra is a parliamentary actor, it is important that parliamentary involvement can also be there, and of course Parliament has the role that the legislator plays in this work. But there is now a need to start this work and to hope that it will be done in a good spirit. The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was unanimous, even because we did not now begin to comment on the sound use of Sitra's capital. We have different ideas about that, don't we? Let them be different, but we did not go into this issue in the report, and then it made it possible for us to produce a unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u69	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u70	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The simple aim of this bill is to ensure that companies registered abroad can always be taxed in Finland when their activities are effectively managed from Finland. So far, companies and investors have been able to choose the country in which they are taxed. However, the European political will has now turned to countries wanting to decide where to tax companies. For example, Finland's taxes are avoided by setting up a shell company in the tax oasis. This bill makes provision for the abolition of such tax avoidance, as the foreign box companies living in Finland would have the task of being subject to a wider tax here. In concrete terms, new Articles 11a and 11b would be added to the Income Tax Act, which define when the Community and the commonality are resident in Finland, i.e. domestic entities or commons, as referred to in Article 9(1)(1) of the Act. A similar model is already in place in, for example, Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Denmark. This definition is also included in the Finnish Tax Convention, which would ensure that the reform does not result in double taxation. Today, when capital moves digitally without borders, it is no longer the present time to base taxation on where the company is registered. Even if you can buy an Estonian company online for a few hundred without stepping foot on a ferry to Tallinn. Companies must therefore be taxed where they operate, and this initiative would bring them one step closer to achieving this objective. It is clear that no country will necessarily tax income generated in Finland if we do not do so ourselves. It is particularly important — and therefore the timing of this legislative initiative — that this initiative should be dealt with this year when these provisions of the EU tax avoidance directive on the exchange of residence of companies are transposed into law. The EU tax avoidance directive was this large package of laws that has been adopted here in Parliament, and now we are waiting for the proposals from the Ministry of Finance to be put into practice nationally to implement the conditions of this directive and to help it and prepare it for this initiative. This initiative is also closely linked to the major reforms of international taxation. The Economic and Monetary Committee of the European Parliament recently laid down guidelines for reforming business taxation. As I said, the objectives of the EU countries are the same as those of the initiative. It is up to the governments to decide the rules of the game where companies are taxed. A key part of the game rules is to ensure that companies are also taxed in countries where they operate only via digital platforms where they operate only virtually. It is not sustainable that companies collect their profits from Finland but pay their taxes on tax havens, if any. Mr President! In the Committee on Finance, there is a topical debate on the Commission's proposal for digital taxation. It is a very complex, difficult and, I might say, a critically striking entity, in which the clear political impetus has been to make large digital companies pay taxes at least somewhere when the great indignation of citizens has been directed at large companies such as Facebook, Google and Apple, who have very effective means of avoiding paying the tax in practice. It is possible that digital taxation — at least the temporary form of taxation based on turnover — is the wrong way, but the spirit, the spirit of the time to which this perhaps ill-designed tax in itself is about to be met must be taken into account, and it is extremely important that consideration be given to these new rules of international business taxation, which take account of the fact that the world is more international and that the world is digital. As a step towards a common and integrated corporate tax base, the so-called CCCTB, is the idea of a virtual establishment or the idea contained in this bill that the tax liability could be determined in Finland when its actual operation is derived from here. They are steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u71	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Harakka for this initiative. It is very good and very well placed, as Mr Harakka explained above. After all, many times we have wanted the government to swiftly implement this tax avoidance directive and bring its provisions into the law, and, of course, the fact that this initiative comes at this very point in time when the work is under way is taking place is important and it is hoped that these will be taken into account. In fact, President, I could also say that I think it is important for the government to listen to Mr Harakka quite a bit now. After all, as we know, he is undoubtedly a good expert in international taxation, he knows a lot about how to prevent tax evasion and tax havens. Together with expert Lauri Finér, he made a comprehensive programme of measures with a number of proposals on how to prevent and avoid tax evasion. I would say that it is a paper at the level that, for example, in the Committee on Audit, we heard Mr Harakka and Mrs Finér as experts. It is quite good that the representative is also doing this kind of thinking, and that is how this has also become the SDP's tax programme. Yes, I dare say — and even on an objective basis — that I believe it to be such a paper that it could be of benefit to all of us. Indeed, President, with a sincere mind, with no glasses of political color, I could recommend everyone to take a look at this brilliant result of Mr Harakka's thinking. As far as this initiative itself is concerned, this is also very much to be welcomed. Of course, we should be able to act in such a way that the profits of companies registered abroad who actually operate and set up these box companies in Finland, then in some tax havens and thus avoid taxes, are taxed, which is in the interests of each of us. Just as Mr Harakka said, it is not the case that profits are collected here and then taxation is in tax havens, if there is one. That is why society as a whole will benefit from the fact that even these euros, through this tax on profits, will end up in a common fund that will enable us to increase our common well-being. I therefore believe that with a wise approach, the government could also catch up with this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u72	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mrs Haraka for preparing this bill and say that, while I myself have been involved in the work of the Tax Division, for quite a long time, a lot has happened and is happening at OECD level, happening at EU level, taking place in international circles, but it is quite a race when the world changes so quickly. And when Mr Harakka referred, among other things, to the digital world and to the way in which huge international companies operating digitally could also be made subject to taxation, there is a challenge. This is a natural and good bill, and I am happy to sign it myself. It aims to ensure that Finland could also collect taxes on income from a company effectively derived from Finland. And, of course, when we have double taxation agreements in force under the OECD model, we must also be able to ensure that the result is not taxed twice, but it is quite possible on the basis of the existing agreements. The fact that the tight tax base and the fight against tax avoidance, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning are important, especially for Finland is due to the fact that our social system is based on the fact that we have a very high tax rate, we collect a lot of taxes, we run society, we run security, we run education, education, social and health services, infraa and so on. For this type of country at national level, as for other Nordic countries and for some other countries in Northern Europe, it is really important for all forums, both internationally and at national level, to do everything possible in terms of the tightness of the tax base and the safeguarding of tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u73	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u74	Mr President! According to Article 41 of the Waste Act in force, the holder of the property or other waste must dispose of the waste under the responsibility of the municipality in accordance with Article 32 for the real estate shipment of waste or for the regional reception site organised by the municipality. There is no mention in the law of whether waste has been generated in the property or whether there is a residence in the property. Nor has it been important that the property is located at the end of a road or in the area where the road is cut off half the year, for example because of snow cover. This can be very common in Northern Finland, for example. The waste levy is two parts. Those from which waste is collected from a waste container on their own property shall be charged a vessel clearance fee. Real estate not included in the collection of real estate shall be interpreted as using regional collection points and shall be subject to a regional collection fee. According to Article 78 of the Waste Act in force, the municipality must levy a waste charge on the waste management it organises to cover the costs incurred in carrying out its task. The general basis for imposing the waste levy is the type, quality, quantity and pick-up rates of waste. So the waste levy is also collected from so-called desert houses, even if it has not been inhabited for 15 years and no waste is thus even generated. Nor have the holders of holiday homes been granted any relief or exemption from the municipal waste levy except on very heavy grounds. There has not been sufficient evidence to indicate that the waste has been transported elsewhere for disposal. According to the law, the waste must be transported to the nearest collection site in the territory of the municipality where the property is located. The eco-tax is charged to cover the costs of waste recovery, reception of household hazardous waste, waste counselling and waste management development. The eco-payment is for residential buildings and holiday homes located in the operating area of the joint municipal authority. The eco-payment shall be imposed on all the above-mentioned properties in addition to the annual or vessel-specific charge, whether the property is transported by vessel or whether the household waste is exported to the collection points of the joint municipal authority. Nor does it matter whether the property is deserted or not. The existing Waste Act allows for a change in the basis of the charge in individual cases, irrespective of the rate. The payment criteria, irrespective of the rate of charge, shall be fair and reasonable for all. Due to the equal treatment of waste holders, the exemption from municipal waste transport or the exemption from the waste levy can only be granted on the basis of strong criteria. In this respect, the practice is local and depends on the relevant authority. The treatment is therefore not necessarily the same and fair or fair throughout the country. Mr President! On the basis of the above considerations, I propose that the Parliament amend Article 80 of the Waste Act by adding Article 3 where the obligation to pay the waste and eco-payment would not be demonstrably an obligation for abandoned buildings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u75	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-30-ps-58.u76	Mr President! On the basis of Chapter 10, Section 55 of the Sanctions Act, the information produced by the secret coercive measures specifically mentioned in the section is defined as additional information without reference to the basic offence. The use of additional information is provided for in Chapter 10, Section 56 of the Sanctions Act, paragraph 2 of which contains a list of 14 offences for which additional information can be used. In such cases, it is also necessary that use can be expected to play a very important role in the investigation of the crime. The list does not contain a drug offence which, however, meets the requirements laid down for the offences listed in the list in the preparation of the law. This obvious deficiency poses problems, particularly for the security of society, as this deficiency significantly hampers the fight against drug crime and the enforcement of criminal liability. Therefore, changing the legal situation would also be important for citizens' sense of justice and the credibility of the judicial system. Secret coercive measures at the disposal of pre-trial investigation authorities often produce information as a by-product that is relevant to the investigation of another crime. It is normal for such information to relate to a criminal offence for which the pre-trial investigation authority had no prior knowledge. In the past, case law in Finland has broadly accepted the use of additional information. As a result of the 2014 law on coercive measures, there was a significant restriction on the ability of pre-trial authorities to use additional information in the investigation of a crime. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights requires sufficient predictability in the regulation of secret coercive measures, as well as the punctuality and precision of fundamental rights restrictions. On the other hand, the European Court of Human Rights does not take a position on what kind of evidence can be taken in a trial, so this can be decided at national level. The restrictions on exploitation are a radical change to the principle of free argument and evidence which has been accepted in our legal system. Recovery restrictions undermine the ability of pre-trial investigation authorities to detect hidden crime, to provide legal protection to the victim of the crime and to maintain the security of the individual and society. The exploitation restrictions will ultimately benefit the offender because the court cannot accept the evidence as before. According to Section 55 of Chapter 10 of the current Forced Means Act, additional information refers to information obtained by telecommunications interception, telecommunication surveillance, acquisition of base station data and technical surveillance that is not related to the offence or relates to a crime other than that for which an authorisation or decision has been issued for the investigation. According to Section 56(1) of Chapter 10 of the Sanctions Act, additional information may be used for the investigation of a criminal offence where that information relates to a criminal offence the investigation of which would have been permitted to use the coercive method by which the information was obtained. The additional information may also be used for offences for which the maximum sentence laid down is at least three years’ imprisonment, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. In addition, paragraph 2 contains a list of offences for which additional information can be used. The problems arising from the existing regulation on the use of additional information in drug-related investigations should be addressed by example. It is typically the case that the police are targeting tele-tapping on A, suspected of a serious drug crime. A is selling drugs to B and C, which is also reflected in the interception of telecommunications. On the basis of the interception records and other studies investigated in the pre-trial investigation, there is reason to suspect that the characterisation of the serious drug offence against A will be fulfilled. On the other hand, in the case of B and C, on the basis of a police investigation, they are only to be suspected of a drug offence. The police are going to catch the three of them. It is assumed that the police will be able to confiscate from each of the three suspects amphetamines that can be found to be in the same batch. In the case of suspected aggravated drug offences, A, it is clear that telecommunications interception recordings can be used as evidence against him in the investigation of a serious drug offence. For suspected drug offenders B and C, the situation is more open to interpretation. Can the telecommunications interception records acquired in the investigation of a serious narcotics crime against A be used in their interrogations? If B and C had reason to suspect that they were involved in the distribution of A amphetamine by their own activities, it would be reasonable to suspect that B and C were involved in aiding a serious drug offence committed by A. In such a case, the interception records are available for questioning as evidence against the entire three, since it concerns the investigation of a serious criminal offence as a basic offence and therefore does not constitute additional information in accordance with Chapter 10, Section 55 of the Act on coercive Measures. The situation is unclear when there is no reason to suspect that B and C have been involved in a serious humanitarian crime, but there is reason to suspect that they are both guilty of a drug offence. In the case of a narcotics offence, the conditions laid down in Section 56 of Chapter 10 of the Sanctions Act for the use of additional information in the investigation of a criminal offence are not fulfilled. In practice, this means that telecommunication recordings cannot be used as evidence against B and C in the investigation of drug offences. The most problematic situation is if, for example, the one sentence contained in the call between A and B reveals something that clearly speaks of B's innocence in drug offences, while at the same time supporting the guilt of A and C. So it is not practically possible to break this second sentence on innocence but at the same time on the guilt of others. The example described above clarifies the problems and interpretative situations that the absence of a narcotics offence from the list in Chapter 10, Section 56(2) of the Force Act, is causing in practice in the investigation of narcotics offences in Finland at the moment. The inclusion of a drug offence in that list would have a significant impact, in particular on the exploitation of the material produced by the interception of telecommunications. This apparent lack of legislation significantly reduces the effectiveness of the fight against drugs and the credibility of the judicial system. Mr President! On the basis of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt a draft law in which a new paragraph 7 is added to Article 56(2) of the Force Act, Chapter 10, as set out in Law 1146/2013, narcotics offences.
