ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u1	The 2nd issue of the daily order is the topical debate on the importance of Finnish culture, development trends and the changing operating environment. The debate will be opened by Pauli Kiuru, the first signatory of the discussion initiative. Then, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of answers. Time is set aside for this debate for an hour and a half. In addition, after Mr Kiuru's intervention, the minister concerned will speak before opening this actual debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u2	Mr President! I would like to thank the Council of Presidents for adopting the debate initiative in plenary. The topical debate in Parliament shows appreciation for Finnish culture. I would also like to thank Mr Pia Viita for his cooperation in drawing up the initiative and collecting the names. We received strong support from all parliamentary groups. Culture is an entity that embraces knowledge, beliefs, art, moral concepts, law, tradition, and all other abilities and customs that man has adopted as a member of society. Keijo Virtanen, Professor Emeritus of Cultural History at the University of Turku, Rector and director of my thesis, said: ‘It is uniquely historical in relation to his life, his environment and his time. “ Historylessness thinns civilization and the ability to discern the fine nuances of our culture. I defend the aim of a comprehensive understanding of Finnish culture. We must tolerate, accept and also value diversity. No one shall be placed in a different position on grounds of sex, age, origin, language, religion, belief, opinion, health, disability or any other reason relating to a person without an acceptable basis. This is what the Constitution says. But is there a limit to tolerance? Tolerance should not be tolerated indefinitely by those who tolerate intolerance. We must be prepared to defend an open and democratic society based on Western values against the threats to it. Another option is to be flexible indefinitely and endanger Finnish culture, culture, equality, the legal system and democracy. Security and Finnish culture have threats. This is ultimately also the case in the intelligence laws. I defend the right of Finns to security and their own culture. Mr President! According to the story, during World War II, Winston Churchill was proposed to compromise the funding of art and culture. He is claimed to have answered the question: “What are we fighting for? “ A state without culture would only be administration and citizens would be subject to government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u5	Now I would ask those Members who wish to speak briefly in the debate to stand up and press the V button. My idea is that the first round will take place so that one in each group will have two minutes to speak, and then the rest of the time will be spent with one minute to speak. But in the meantime, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u9	We shall begin the debate, the debate-like debate, and the first speech I will give to this debate initiative, Mr Viitanen, to another active co-conspirator. In your case, I won't knock, even if two minutes is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u10	Mr President! Thank you also very much to Mr Kiuru for the idea of this initiative, thank you to the whole House for the fact that it was very easy for us to have more than 100 signatories. It tells us that culture deserves a debate in this Parliament several days, but also today in particular. It also tells us that culture has enormous significance overall. It plays a role as an absolute value, it plays a role in strengthening human mental well-being, in strengthening health, in strengthening employment and as a driver of the vitality of the various regions and of the nation as a whole, the importance of the economy, not to mention the creative economy and its entire future. President! Culture also deserves its funding, and today it is hardly too late to remind you that a small amount of money will achieve a great deal. When we support art and culture, we build the future. I, President, have often used a metaphor that if the state budget were a beach ball, then the cultural budget would be that ping-pong ball. And everyone understands that even if the whole ping-pong ball was pulled out of the beach ball, it would not save the beach ball, but, rather, the air would come out of it. So this is the reason why we must also be able to invest in culture at a difficult time. President! Indeed, this funding is very timely, referring to this particular state-of-the-art reform of theatres — theatres, museums and orchestras — and there is this great concern, the Tampere Labour Theatre, which has already been mentioned here. If this financial cut of 2 million were to take place, it would be a cultural disaster, it would be a major loss to all cultural life in Tampere, Pirkanmaa and the country as a whole. I hope that we can give a joint message that this proposal is totally wrong. President! I would like to continue by saying that, as a second coherent idea from this debate, we need reforms, we need this state aid reform, but we cannot do so well without investing a little more in culture. These days, too, investments in culture will cost themselves many times more. President! Culture is a great thing, everyone must have
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u11	Congressman Alatalo. — For you and everyone else, when two minutes are exceeded, the knocking begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u12	President! With Juice, we sometimes said that culture is our language or languages. Our language is now under pressure in the world of major international giants such as YouTube, Spotify, Google and Facebook. On the other hand, they are also advertising tools for Finnish music and culture. But as the recordings disappear in the streaming world, artists' compensations are no longer the same as before, and large international record companies with their machine pop also dominate radio waves. We would also need Finnish independent artists who bring a more diverse genre from music. In the film industry, too, such a change has come with this digital world, Netflixit, HBOs and so on. That is why we need local culture; we need libraries, museums and theatres. That is where Mr Viitanen also brought up the proposal of Tampere's Työväen Theatre station and the VOS Group. If Labour Theatre loses 2 million of its state support and its role as a national stage, then we will only have these national shows in Helsinki. In my view, this is discriminatory in terms of regional policy. TTT employs more than 400 people a year and is easily accessible to Finnish residents. The position of Finnish artists is not very good. Artist alliances and perhaps some kind of basic income would be appropriate in times of difficulty when there are no orders. It could also be possible to create copyright revenue for the author's company, when money goes into circulation from video companies. It's a stake in the future. All in all, the creative sector, which we also produced in the Committee on the Future during the last term, is an important sector for the national product, almost 5%, and it brings a great deal of prosperity to our growing senior population, but it also creates a national identity for us in this changing world that I have just described.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u13	Mr President! It is really great that we are having the opportunity to discuss culture today. Thank you to all those who have signed the initiative. Culture is of great importance, and culture takes shape as part of our history and can also shape our future. Culture unites us and expresses our time. It will change over time and, on the other hand, will provide a way of dealing with past and present-day painful issues. Culture in Finland is part of the Nordic and European cultural circle. Finland’s nature is also a central part of national identity, and it can be said that the exercise of mobility and the exercise of the right of everyman, which is a strong part of it, is also an important part of Finnish culture. This is something that is rarely mentioned here in Parliament, but in the coming years there will certainly be many debates on this subject as part of the laws. This I would like everyone to remember that every one of us, regardless of where we live and what background we come from, has an opportunity to move around in nature and culture in general. A number of important things have been done during this term of government to promote culture and, as has been said here, it is also very important. Although the money is small, the measures can do a lot of good. Creative sectors are the area of the future, and it is very good that the government has launched, for example, a production incentive project, the development of a production incentive system for the audiovisual sector, and supported the strengthening of the position of those working in the arts and culture sector. But we must also continue to do so very strongly, because we know that there are a lot of people working both in culture and in sport who have very poor incomes and their position in society is still largely undefined, and I hope that we will be discussing this issue further here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u14	President! Unfortunately, it is often said that culture is not sufficiently valued. Today, this conversation of ours will hopefully prove something completely different. In fact, two introductory remarks showed that when we talk about culture, we can talk about almost anything. After the war in 1948, when the Council approved a new catechism and said a few words about culture, it is reported that two savolamen spoke on their fishing trip that it is now strange that the catechism also speaks of culture, when another man was a little angry at it and jerked off his outboard engine and said that this too is a product of culture. So culture is indeed, as the Latin word “cultura ” means, all forms of farming. From the ancient world, we have been inherited three fundamentals: truth, beauty, goodness. They are surrounded by civilization, justice, being human, growing and developing as a human being. I am also one of those people who is concerned about the survival of artists. The bread of so many artists is in small pieces in the world and the future is uncertain and difficult to comprehend and predictable. But, yes, we have to say the other way around that we do have great institutions. We have the winning funds available, we have the Finnish Cultural Fund created as a great citizen movement, and this government did not cut the cultural budget in its preparation of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u15	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kiuru, for this excellent initiative. Finnish national culture to honor. Culture, creative sectors — jobs of the future. I would now like to raise one point that we need to address, and I also hope that Mr Terho will give us an answer. It's a domestic music business. At the moment, there are three-story people. It's our top peaks, artists and musicians. They work for Sony, Universal and Warner. Then we have another category: those who would like to be in the service of these people, but probably never will. Then we have a third category, more than 90 per cent: those Finnish musicians and artists who have to make self-preservation records because there are really no small Finnish record companies anymore, not even big ones. So these little record companies have gone out of business or they've stopped because the big giants have come and taken this market share. The question is: would it not be good for us to have domestic operators so that these more than 90% of musicians and artists can get their products out and all tax money will remain in the country of origin? This is going to be a little bit the same as the potentially coming mess that internationals are going to be all over themselves. In other words, this issue of funding has also been at Mr Terho's disposal, and now I expect Minister Lintilä to respond because Mr Terho did not dodge this question in his reply. It is important to favour and, in particular, to provide funding for domestic entrepreneurs, because they are not asking for any charity but for funding, not direct support. I have also made a legislative initiative on the compensation of intellectual property rights, and I hope it will also be dealt with. Tampere Labour Theatre — jess! There's also a second cousin acting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u16	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss culture just once during the parliamentary term in this whole group. That's really great. I would like us to focus on how we can improve the position of culture and the conditions for making art in society. One topical question is that the reform of the VOS is currently under way. My view is that, in order to bring this state aid reform to a successful conclusion, it would require additional funding and significant funding to bring new free-field operators into the scope of VOS funding. Here I recall that last season we concluded an agreement that, regardless of who is in the next government, the next government will increase the loan compensation for authors to the Nordic level. This was done during this period, and for this I would like to thank the present government warmly. But my proposal is that, in this parliamentary term, we should conclude a similar parliamentary agreement that, when the VOS reform is carried out, no matter who is in the next government, additional funding will be decided for the implementation of the VOS reform, because it is the basic funding of art that is the best way to support Finnish free art and professional artists. In addition, I would also like the Government to examine, for example, proposals for a study of the ‘Creative Sectors for strengthening Finland’s economy and employment’, which are very good. The fact is that Finland's creative industries share of GDP
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u17	Mr President! First of all, thank you to Mr Kiuru for this debate initiative and also for his speech, in which he showed how many approaches there are to this important issue. But of course, if we talk about Finnish culture or about creative areas in Finland, it is important to understand that there is no living, diverse art field and cultural life unless we have artists and cultural authors who are able to focus on art and culture in a full-time and professional way. The shortcomings of the social security system in general — and rightly so — receive a great deal of attention in this debate. But in addition to that, it is extremely important in cultural and artistic policy to consider how we can develop the earning models of artists, i.e. opportunities to make money through the artistic work they do. After all, many artists live on a very low income, and many also have to do other work to make a living and cover their own expenses. At least two topical issues play an important role in this. The first is the Finnish scholarship system. Today, information has been published that in the 70s the level of the grant was close to the average level of earnings, but by the 1980s these clearly differed from each other. And this year, if you have an artist working for a scholarship, who has a minor, for example, it means in practice that you live below the poverty line. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the government is prepared to increase the level of artist grants. Another concrete issue is state aid reform. Yes, there is a need for reform as such, but in order for this reform to succeed, it is necessary to allocate some 20 million to carry it through. This should be easy for the government once the government has found EUR 1.5 billion
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u18	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Finland’s success and well-being are based on high-quality and equal education and a high-quality cultural activity. Culture is a sustainable resource and provides a basis for equal development. Civil society and voluntary activities create community and quality of life. Culture, sport and association strengthen identity and play an important role in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u19	Mr President! It is important that all Finns have the opportunity to participate in the diverse provision of culture and to continue to practise creativity in a natural way. Culture has a very broad and positive impact on health, and there are also scientific studies. The livelihood of cultural operators and artists must therefore be ensured. If we think of history, writing and reading skills contributed to the development of a culture that lived in time. I would also like to highlight today's reading and writing skills. Our young people should take better care of these skills. Our cultural heritage has been strongly influenced by many Christian people, prominent people such as Agricola, Chydenius, Snellman, Topelius and Aurora Karamzin. They have laid the foundation for independence and culture as a whole. I would like to remind you, therefore, that the Christian cultural heritage in our country is strong. Christianity and its elements are so deeply absorbed in our culture that many, especially young ones, do not recognize it at all. Tampere is a strong city of culture. Tampere Labour Theatre, as has been mentioned several times here, is one of the largest theatres in Finland and the only national stage outside Helsinki. Its operation should be safeguarded. This year the events of the civil war have been brought up in Tampere and the Musical Girls are playing at the Work People's Theatre. I would have liked to quote Sirkku Peltola, a screenwriter and director, on the meaning: ‘History research,knowing and interpreting help people to have a self-centered picture of the world in which only I am entitled to the values of well-being. Through knowledge of history, understanding of strange, other and new is inevitable
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u20	We shall now proceed to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u21	Mr President! As has been said many times here, art and culture are very important to people and to human growth. They are even so important that they can be regarded as a basic service that should be accessible to everyone regardless of their place of residence or status. I am delighted to welcome all the projects that make it possible for schoolchildren to have cultural experiences regardless of their place of residence. Visits to art facilities are limited by travel costs and to some extent also by ticket prices, and there is not exactly the same possibility of visiting art facilities everywhere. Principals and teachers have to put all their ingenuity into the game to find ways to implement the school cultural plan. To celebrate Finland’s centenary year, the Art Testers project, funded mainly by the Finnish Cultural Foundation, has been taken forward by approximately EUR 20 million. In the course of three years, the art testers will take all the eighth-graders of Finland to visit the cultural institution. We should have more projects of this kind in future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u22	Mr President! The Finnish Library Institute, Yleisradio, our education system in the forefront of comprehensive school are the jewels of our culture, and they all play an important role in fostering the Finnish language in particular. Mr President! I have no choice but to interfere with this system of state subsidies. When Mr Andersson has already said that EUR 1.5 billion has been spent on tax relief — the second figure: EUR 4 billion on business aid — this is a cultural scandal, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not now find EUR 20 million for this reform of the system of state subsidies. I repeat: It is a cultural scandal if you drive down Tampere's Workers' Theatre, a monumental community. That would be unforgivable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u23	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kiuru and Mr Viita for their strong statement on this issue, and I also think that the Minister's speech was a good one. I will just take two points of view on this subject. The first is the YLE, to which the previous speaker referred a little. When I was able to run this Yle Task Force for the Future, or whatever it was called the Parliamentary Task Force. [Sirkka-LiisaAntila intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u24	Mr President! Finnish culture is honorable and its long traditions are absolutely worth defending, and therefore a debate here in Parliament is necessary in order to take political decisions and contribute to the preservation and development of our own culture. In the knowledge of our own roots and in the preservation and development of our cultural heritage, literacy is the key to what has just been referred to here. Unfortunately, the learning outcomes of Finnish children in the mother tongue have deteriorated clearly over the past decade, and this bad trend must definitely be corrected. Mr President! Marker of our history, J. V. Snellman felt that language was not just an instrument for shaping ideas but that the thinking of the entire nation was built into its common language. I hope that a well thought-out and controlled cultural and educational policy can restore to our society the spirit of the 19th century Snellman that brought our people together significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u25	Mr President! If we are to be able to afford to continue to finance culture, we should support the creative sectors and also promote their exports. I believe that we should set up our own Creative Business Finland in Finland, which we would like to take to the world, because there is plenty of Finnish cultural know-how. And, for example, when we go into the state aid reform that Mr Terho is now faced with, we are currently missing about EUR 20 million to achieve the objective of not competing with each other in the various cultural sectors for the limited resources that currently exist. It is essential that, for example, new and free field operators and new forms of art are included in the state's participations, but it is not sustainable if it is carried out in the second theatre of Finland, for example. This type of question needs to be reconsidered, in my view, because we do not need an internal confrontation in the field of culture. We need support for cultural sectors in general, and we also need to strengthen cultural education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u26	Mr President! Creative sectors and culture have a variety of impacts. From an economic point of view, these employment figures, which have already been reviewed here, can also be talked about the effects of multipliers and spillages. As Savonlinna, I know well what is cultural tourism and the attraction to the city when culture is at a good level in the city. Culture also has a huge number of preventative effects. We should just be better able to identify these. This is where research information is already available on how we can use culture to keep healthy and in good spirits. This government has introduced an av production incentive, raised the loan compensation to the Nordic level, and I really hope that now the cooperation between Teoto and the Ministry of Finance will help to generate copyright revenue for companies so that the music industry can rise in Finland as well as in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u27	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kiuru, noted the diversity of culture and also mentioned the ongoing report on sport policy in the pipeline. He also mentioned the poor Olympic success and stressed the need for more support for top athletes and young athletes. However, I would stress that this is a sports policy report, not a sports policy report, not to mention a top-notch sports policy report. Then, in this sport culture, we need to pay attention to the basic question of making ordinary citizens move more and more. A few weeks ago we received startling information that, despite the fact that we have the Mobility School project, we have an effort for all children and young people to organise a hobby, the condition of the fifth graders has even further deteriorated in schools, and two fifths of the ninth graders are on their way to a high-risk group of standard of living diseases at full speed. That is why I would like to stress that the focus of this report on sports policy must be on how to get the whole population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u28	Mr President! Art and culture increase mental well-being, but those who experience culture are also better physically. They reflect history and society and bring meanings to life and open up the opportunity to see reality and the phenomena of time creatively from different perspectives. The opportunities for art and culture to support decent life, health and well-being are almost incalculable, as many of us have already said. Everyone, regardless of age, place of residence and wealth, must have the opportunity to experience and engage in culture and art. Despite these good effects, culture's contribution to the state budget is unfortunately small. This would be an excellent opportunity to raise it, as we speak here together on behalf of culture. It is quite clear that these extra rains will pay for themselves, and I would like us to make it a ping-pong ball as big as a golf ball or at least a weight.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u29	Mr President! Culture is of great value, mentally but also economically, as has been pointed out here. A very important role also lies in heritage and traditions, a valuable Finnish culture. I hope that we will all have the right to our own Finnish culture in the future and to defend it as well. Tolerance must not mean giving up your own culture or tradition. I hope that this Finnish culture will also be defended in this world of globalisation. School parties are a part of the summer and Christmas gospels; they must also be nurtured in the future. But then sport is also an important part of culture. I would like to ask the Minister, who is also responsible for sport, which is an important part of culture: would it be possible to look for a uniform VAT rate for sport, for this reduced rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u30	Värderade Talman! Det är ett viktigt tema vi talar om. Kulturen tillhör alla, och vi är rika i Finland då vi har ett land med TVå nationalspråk. Vi är ett land, ett folk men med TVå språk, och vi har också lite olik kultur på svenska och finska. Men vi ska också minnas den samiska culturen, och framför allt vill jag också lyfta fram minoriteternas rättigheter till sin kultur. Nu när vi talar om statsandelsreformen tycker jag också det skulle vara viktigt att av ministern få veta på vilket sätt man tänker töda minoriteternas kulturutveckling i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u31	Mr President! The creative welfare society naturally includes the promotion of art and culture and the development of its conditions. I do not believe that public support for art should be placed in conflict with social policy measures and resource requirements. On the contrary, as has already been said many times, support for art must also be seen as a preventive social policy. Art is a strategic resource for social development, and it is also a culturally communal resource. Protecting and encouraging creativity is the basis for the development of the whole community in all its regions, and I am encouraging the government to improve the position of artists in this country, the authors of artistic and cultural content. Artists in particular are particularly disadvantaged among artists.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u32	Mr President! A couple of years ago, there was a theme year called Art and Culture belong to everyone. This should be taken for granted, but it is not, even though there is already much evidence of the positive effects of culture and art on the health and well-being of elderly people and also those with memory disorders. For example, care cultures are old-fashioned in many places, and culture as an enabler of good life and a form of care is still not understood. In many municipalities, people living at home with a memory disorder are also not provided with transport services to ensure safe access to hobbies and events. I've heard it said that it doesn't matter to a memory sick person anymore. I hope that this future new law on disability services will improve this problem, because everyone should have the right to be involved in culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u33	Mr President! Culture is almost everything, and you can't tell the difference. [Parliament : All! ] Each country also has its own traditional culture, and we Finns are considered a little strange when saunas in a sauna near 100 degrees, but the soul is cleansed there. Similarly, food culture is viewed as strange, such as eating worse at Easter, which many feel really disgusting. But Midsummer believers and flagging the whole Midsummer Night are Finnish national romance and culture at their best.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u34	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk here about the need to take care of the livelihoods of culturalists. I would now like to raise the concerns of authors about what might be happening in the EU decision-making process with regard to library allowances. We can be confident, Minister Terho, that Finland will defend the fact that library compensation will continue to be the source of income for authors rather than publishing companies. But, Mr President, I would also like to support what Mr Kiuru and Mr Viitanen said about the funding of the Tampere Workers' Theatre. As far as national culture is concerned, I would like to stress that all culture, including what we consider to be the most national, always develops and interacts with the whole world, at least with everything we know about the world. For example, Kalevala
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u35	Mr President! We use a great Finnish language in Finland. But this Finnish language is also used with a very different dialect, and even in Lapland, H-parts are placed in eight different places. They know I'm from Sodankylä from the village of Orajärvi. The second point I would like to make here is that Article 17(3) of the Constitution, as an indigenous Sámi people, as well as the Roma and other groups, have the right to maintain and develop their own language and culture. I recognize myself as a forest Lapp, and no one has the right to deny my own Sámi cultural identity and the activities that I do with what I feel to be mine. As the third point, I am now raising traditional treatments in this age of social work. Last week we had a seminar here in Parliament on traditional treatments studied in science. There was a review of sauna, plant matters and also a Kalevala member repair.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u36	Mr President! I am not going to sit down or scratch sand on a pile, but I would like to point out how important a culture is precisely the actions that help children and young people in the field of culture. There goes the creativity. When the Minister raised this three-year period of life, my own understanding is that those who engage in culture live healthier lives, that is to say, investing in culture as a young person and as a child is an economically sensible option, that is to say, encouraging sport. Mr Uotila was very concerned, and it is important that, when this exercise policy programme is being carried out, account is taken of these particular challenges of physical activity at school and the mobility of children and young people, i.e. to ensure that people participate. Of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u37	Mr President! Culture is the basis for all development. I think it is important to understand here that cultural development is based on, for example, literacy, and on this, one might think that important measures in this regard are, for example, that parents read stories to their children at home and encourage them to read everything possible. In this context, parental leave and so on are important issues to discuss, for example, how more can be done when children are at home, developing that basic cultural skills, that is, reading. For example, studies show that being at the home of fathers is vital for boys to read better at school later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u38	Mr President! Culture is a central expression of identity of any nation or community that defines the nature of the community. Culture builds bridges between the various members of the community and creates a sense of belonging that is otherwise unattainable. Culture and the economy are more interdependent than is often understood. Culture feeds creative thinking that is needed in all areas of society, not least in business and marketing, for example. When we build a Finnish land brand, we increase Finland's attractiveness as a tourist country and investment destination. When we sell Finnish products and services around the world, Finnish culture plays a key role in ensuring that our business goals are realised. It is in the interests of all of us Finns to cherish and respect Finnish culture and to support its various manifestations from visual art to literature, theatre, music, sports and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u39	Mr President! Minister Terho beautifully painted the landscape of cultural policy without going to the hard end of concrete. That's why I'm asking you a few specific questions: The first question relates to how to safeguard the cultural rights of citizens, i.e. in practice issues relating to cultural education, basic art education. The second question is: how to ensure equality and accessibility of cultural services? This involves free of charge, even in museums or local libraries. The third question: how to improve the conditions for performing art? This, of course, involves basic funding for art — dismantling the index freezes on VOS funding and adding it to the VOS funding of EUR 20 million. Fourth question: how to improve social protection for creators? This is linked to basic income and combined security. And the last question: how to support entrepreneurship in the cultural sectors? This is precisely the case:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u40	Mr President! When it comes to culture, it is a very broad concept. If we look at this debate too, we have already talked through the Intelligence Act about back engines and worse about traditional treatments. Perhaps it is the art of speech, and one can estimate that art has been perhaps a dadaism in some of the speeches. Mr President! If you go to art and art, then really the current issue is this VOS reform, which absolutely needs to be brought forward. For example, a modern circus or dance art must be brought into the VOS, not so that orchestras, museums, theatres are unduly affected by it, and it requires extra money. Just a direct question to Mr Terho, Minister for Culture: are you prepared for a 20 million proposal that would allow this to happen, to take the spring to the spending limits debate? The second question: Artists' scholarships are at too low a level compared to the number of artists, as are artistic pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u41	Mr President! Culture belongs to everyone, of course, and it is a great thing that it is supported unanimously here. Much has been said today about support for culture, but it is worth remembering that there are many areas of culture that support themselves and do not need any support. I am referring, among other things, to summer theatre practice in many villages in Finland, an excellent level of culture. Without the significant support of society, this will provide us with great pleasures. Many Finnish artists have been quoted here, and in my opinion this includes the magnificent text of Mr Alatalo’s ‘Ice Cream Summer’ if you want to bring such cultural works to this Chamber. Personally, I would also like to say from my good friend Pekka Nyman's production that culture is also a celebration. He's got a great song for his "Today's Party" -- go listen to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u42	Mr President! When I got to Pori City Council, the citizen told me not to forget about culture. We definitely need to invest financially in culture, and that is an important issue. The culture of a nation state is a whole set of community or community achievements. Man also builds his identity on culture. Cultures can also be divided according to mainstream religions. For example, we in the West have a Jewish-Christian culture, but now we are increasingly becoming an Islamic culture here. Is it okay that four-year-olds in day care have scarves? Is it okay for us to give up Christmas parties or summer streams because we start talking about whether this may offend those who moved here? In addition, religion always affects culture and hence legislation. In Sweden, for example, a judgment under the sharia law has already been passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u43	Mr President! Political culture. We in Finland have become accustomed to having a very relevant political culture. There has been a responsible management of common issues, and a certain respect for fellow citizens has also been included in the political culture. This speech, perhaps for its part, is an indication of the way in which our political culture has changed. I have just come from Karakallio, where 90 pensioners felt that the current political culture was distrustful. They asked why, for example, regional reform, social reform, despite the fact that experts say that it will not lead to anything good. Today's political culture involves taking matters against the views of experts. Now I would like to ask, with the minister here, when will this farce be stopped?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u44	President! It is necessary to take part in the cultural debate, of course. I would like to talk about museums in Finland in 100 years. Finnish museum culture showed itself to its advantage, told about Finland’s history 100 years back, including the future. I'm in the museum business myself. Many museums are in financial trouble. The Minister of Education and Culture has managed to finance special museums in moderation, but the museum is never a business. I would have asked Minister of Culture Terho how you see the future of museums and their development in the Finnish cultural field, when we are now going to the new century, especially in terms of young people. The Finnish Cultural Foundation has also invested in visiting youth museums.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u45	Mr President! Many artists support themselves alone with their skills. There was still a recent concept of ‘in-service’, but a multi-artist is defined as an entrepreneur who does not necessarily have unemployment security. I am intimately acquainted with many artists whose livelihood depends on hair, so that the varying and even arbitrary interpretations of the TE Offices are fatal. I have therefore suggested that matters of self-employed persons should be concentrated in three or five TE Offices, which would have the skills and motivation to help artists make a living. Similarly, the conditions for working co-operatives of artists need to be improved. These measures to protect creative Finns are, of course, primarily directed at Minister Lindström, but does Minister Terho see the importance of this everyday issue and, sooner or later, the need for a social security reform that protects the creative Finn?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u46	Mr President! Culture is our strong identity. In fact, I have to thank the Finland 100 project last year and this year. We had a number of fine projects with which we went through the difficult times, those that happened a hundred years ago or those that happened later, during the war. A strong theme, this museum, came up in that speech by Ala-Nissilä. I recommend to all of you this kind of museum card.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u49	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Joona Räsänen, Torniainen, Hoskonen. My accounting records show that representatives who asked to speak at this early stage when you were inspired to do so have received at least one speech by then. That is why, after these speeches, if the Minister wants to, for example, two minutes from the toilet, he will be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u50	Mr President! When we talk about support for culture, then we really talk about support for the authors of culture. Of course, this partial solution is the tax euro that we then channel as public support to various factors, which will then enable them to do their job and provide it to people. But, yes, in this funding, we consumers also have a responsibility. We must also be prepared to pay for the content we consume, so that the producer of its content is also compensated for it. And I think we should think about this a little bit more. After all, we now have different patterns of consumption, and that means that these money flows from producers will also change, and when much has been said about how Finnish culture can also be exported outside the borders of the country, we need platforms for that. The question is: what has prevented Finland from making up Spotify, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u51	Mr President! In short, only enough that Finnish culture has its roots everywhere in Finland. When you look at the Finnish top culture, you say you listen to Sibelius's Karelia series, you look at Edelfelt's paintings or Finnish stage art, whatever it is, they are written about the strong power of Finnish culture today. And that same strong force you encounter, even by travelling around Finland in summer theaters — just great shows made with local forces. Finnish culture is fine when Finland is well. Now that we are discussing regional reform today and how the economy is developing in this country, it is high time we understood that the welfare of the provinces is not out of place. It is a huge advantage for all Finns. When Finnish culture develops, it creates a new growth base for healthy Finnish life. This should now be understood by everyone in this House and put an end to the unnecessary noise of the matter,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u52	Mr President! Finnish culture is a very important issue and should be cherished and appreciated. This has also come to light in this debate. Culture must be seen as a very cross-cutting concept, as has been the case here in the debate. In fact, you might ask what is not a culture when you often ask what is a culture. I personally realize that almost all of our activities are culture and it comes from us. Culture belongs to people of all ages. I would also like to stress in this debate the importance of home and family and the importance of school in cultural matters. There are many things leaving, that cultural services are also used as an adult and an elderly person. The accessibility of art, culture and physical activity — not only the state but the municipalities and regions will play an important role in the future too. Like Mr Uotila, I would like to emphasise myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u53	Secretary Terho, two minutes. Would that be enough? Let's see.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u54	Mr President! Let's see what we can do for two minutes. - All right, there are questions on the pages, but I'm trying to pick up the whole thing here. Parviainen asked the same question as Harakka and Elomaa on a similar matter, first of all about this cultural export and, secondly, about the social security of cultural authors, and also some of Aalto's questions. In other words, this has been considered by the so-called Brunila Task Force, “Creative SectorsAsIntensifiers of the Economy and Employment of Finland” was the name of this working group,and its report was produced in the past few years. These proposals have been taken as a guideline by the government. For example, the implementation of the guidelines is ongoing in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy with regard to this particular Business Finland package. Here are indeed issues such as intersectoral issues, as in many of these issues, but these are the guiding principles of how both social security and this cultural export should be promoted. The second set of questions concerned this reform of the VOS and its possible funding, but, as I have already said in my preliminary statement, the preparation of the VOS reform is still in progress and in the consultation process, so I cannot say with certainty that the Jew and the only thing I share is that, as Minister for Culture, of course, I hope for an understanding of the cultural stakes, that is clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, if there are still a few points to be made to reply to this question, the opportunity is now. I would ask those representatives to stand up and press the V-button who want to speak like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u59	Mr President! Culture as a whole and there physical activity within and art as a part — and I also count youth work — is made up of the importance of state funding, and it is decided by the parliament, and Veikkaus is the great opportunity; the cultural side also comes directly to the budget for a certain amount. The biggest contributor is households for all of these, i.e. the consumer and the user of hobbies and the operator actually pay for most of this, but the municipality is much more important. Many billions will probably go this year to sustain all these activities in the municipalities. And now, when we look forward to the future, the potential of municipalities is reduced, especially those municipalities that run theatres run orchestras, run visual arts schools and so on, because VM's estimates for the previous week were that in municipalities with over 40,000 inhabitants, the pressure for tax increases will increase as a result of this regional project progresses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u60	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here for culture. I'm gonna go back to that music business. We do indeed have small, independent record companies, but three multinational companies are the giants who control the market 90%, and when streaming does not generate revenue for artists, there will be no more new music in Finland and this money will go abroad. I would have sent a message to the Minister for Culture that this should also be taken into account and, above all, in the case of Broadcasting. The radio is doing a valuable job. There are good programmes in the morning and evening, such as Radio in Finland, but at the time when this great people listen, especially the adult people, they should offer a wide range of Finnish music and not just very limited music from large record companies. This is a matter that has also been dealt with in the Board of Directors, but it is the responsibility of the Finnish Broadcasting Company if we pay taxes, that culture is brought up in a diverse way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u61	Mr President! Culture is of great importance to Pirkanmaa and the theatre capital of Tampere. For its part, it is important for citizens across Finland to have the greatest possible access to quality theatre, and this is where the theatre offering in Tampere plays an important role. Therefore, this proposal from the VOS Group to cut funding for Tampere's Workers' Theatre by EUR 2 million per year is completely unsustainable. That would mean that if this proposal were to come true, as much as 61 per cent of the state subsidies to the capital region would go to culture, even though only 20 per cent of Finns live in the region. So I would encourage the Minister to address this issue and correct the VOS Group's error of assessment with regard to this proposal and to ensure that it is also outside the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u62	Mr President! The best way to support art is to support the artist's work, so I would like to propose some improvements to improve the position of artists. Naturally, the basic income of the Greens would be such a means, but an important measure would be to improve basic funding for art in particular, and I am talking here about VOS funding. In other words, I support it, as has been suggested by this VOS working group, that the budget for VOS should be increased by EUR 20 million in the state budget, while at the same time dismantling the index freezes on VOS funding. This is precisely because the VOS reform will not become a zero-sum game. And if, for example, the Tampere Workers' Theatre is to be saved in a way that many people here wish to do, then it also requires an increase in the VOS level. Otherwise, we will not be able to bring any new players into the VOS area, which everyone here will understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u63	Mr President! The decrease in mobility is particularly worrying for children and young people. A report on sports policy will be made, that is a very good thing. Although the following question is really difficult, I still ask: What are the Minister of Sport’s medicines for the problem of immobility? And a few words about the local radios that Alatalo was talking about. We have small local radios. They don't have any playlists, they play a lot of music. Commercial stations have playlists, there's nothing you can do about it, but Yle also does this playlist business, and it's problematic. Yle is the radio of the entire people, so far away. That is what I want to address and say frankly that Yle must think of all the players, including over 90% of the artists and musicians.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, this window of time is about to be exhausted. I will give the floor to Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Pirttilahti, Mr Tanus and then to the people involved in this initiative, Mr Viitanen and Mr Kiuru, and finally to the Minister. All right, everybody, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u65	Mr President! The reform of the VOS is extremely important. The problem with the current VOS system is that while modern circus and dance art, for example, are within it, new groups are very difficult to bring in because the old ones do not fall. It is also quite technical: the system is linked to man-years. It is therefore important to reform it so that more groups, more widely in different fields of art, have access to VOS and, on the other hand, it must also be possible to assess how these VOS institutions reach out to different groups of people, how they can mobilise those who otherwise come under the influence of art. But in order for this VOS reform to succeed and become a reality so that it does not become a zero-sum game, it will require more money. I have a direct question now. I understand that this cannot be decided by the Minister for Culture alone, but the government cannot decide on additional funding for VOS unless the Minister for Culture brings the spending limits to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u66	Mr President! The VOS reform is important to get our cultural actors and especially Tampere Workers' Theatre to work ahead, and welcome, Minister, to learn more about it. I will bring up another point. Here are these awards for culture. This is an important issue, how to be rewarded and what kind of competition cultural producers individually are and then get positive criticism for their products. As an example, we have the Nordic Council's cultural prizes, which we will be paying for from the tax resources there, and we will still get a good competition between us in this Nordic family. I hope that these activities will be further developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u67	Mr President! Visual artists are one professional group, whose livelihoods are often very tight. Grants are an essential, important part of living. Messages have come from the field, particular concern for church art artists and the very limited scholarships granted to them. Whether those who adorn the churches, paint frescoes, paintings, altar tablets in the churches has been considered. I would like to ask the Minister: could it be possible to pay more attention to church art artists when grants are awarded? Is it possible that this professional group is something that may have been overlooked when awarding grants?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u68	Mr President! There have been excellent speeches here about the importance of YLE, libraries, the importance of securing the livelihood of artists. President! I will come back to this issue of the VOS, because I see a place for the Minister to take hold of this. Of course, you should present this extra 20 million for the state shares of theatres, museums and orchestras in general. It achieves a great deal, it pays itself back, and you have received very broad parliamentary support for this kind of thing. You can ask our shoulders and lean on our shoulders to ensure that Parliament is also worth it. I think this is where Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto well recalled last season. At that time we doubled the quote payments for authors from 4 million to 8 and, at the same time, we sought a parliamentary working group that undertook to take forward the matter, and now it is at Nordic level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u69	Mr President! In my speech, I raised the digital skills, and many other colleagues have spoken about them. In this context, I would like to emphasise that making digital skills available to the ageing population for everyday use is not only important because, for example, banking services are available. Of course that is also important, but I would like to stress the point that the online world offers almost an infinite gateway to cultural services. There are programs, magazines, films, music, various archival services. A few weeks ago, I myself studied the war journals from my father’s time that what happened last to the battalion in question. I would like to thank the honourable Members for their excellent speech culture. It has been a pleasure to follow this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u70	Secretary Terho, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u71	Mr President! I'll try to get as many of them as fast as I can from the previous round. First of all, Mr Hassi asked a very important question about library allowances, and I would just like to say briefly that Finland will not promote any decision-making in the EU that would then undermine the remuneration and status of authors. Ala-Nissilä asked about museums and their future, about young people. I have only to say briefly that the museum policy programme has recently been published and that this subject is also being addressed. Huhtasaari asked about its own colorful style of Islamisation, apparently, and I say here that freedom of religion is OK, but it is not necessary to abandon its own cultural heritage. After that, we will have 10 seconds of VOS reform. Which means we're still in the middle of a model. I will be discussing the need for funding when I know how big it is when the model emerges, but the answer in principle is that this will of course be discussed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u72	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Education and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. — Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u73	Mr President! With my eyes I was looking for Commissioner Kurtla for children, because I would have liked her to be there to hear what I am going to say at the beginning. The fact that I would like to take the first speech in this context — I was in line for it — was because this report by the Ombudsman for Children to Parliament is perhaps one of the most important documents in my long political career, the proposals that have been distributed to us representatives. This is exceptionally thorough, concrete, clear-cut, and I would like to express my big thanks to Mr Kurttila and his staff and also to the experts who have helped and done this work in writing this report. I have such an estimate that when this is now being discussed in these expert committees — this is what has been presented in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities in 2014 that such a collating child policy programme should be brought to Finland — this will also lead to results. I regard this as an historic report, and I repeat myself, which we are now dealing with. After all, the main message of the Ombudsman for Children is serious and has already received public attention. Finland is in a state of underachievement of the welfare state. Reforms are needed and a national strategy for child policy is needed. In this House, we must define concrete objectives and indicators to make the current fragmented child policy more coherent and in the best interests of children. In my book ‘Humanequivalence’,I’ve been in contact with a number of children’s policies since the early This also indicates that there is at least enough such a professorial dispersal. Well, this report proposes or hopes that Parliament will adopt a policy on the preparation of a national child policy strategy as a basis for the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Policy programmes and key projects committed to the Government periods have remained as individual development measures instead of targets and implementation beyond the Government term. This report also calls on Parliament to identify the main objectives and concrete indicators of Finland's child policy in the context of the discussion of this report, which I hope will now be found in these special committees. For decision-making based on information, policy transparency and continuity, the indicators defined by Parliament are necessary. Then a direct quote from this report: “A major part of Finland’sreform,in which the birth rate is below populationrenewal,The performance of Finland’s knowledge and learning is falling,a significant part of the situation in the education and labour market remains We are not sufficiently successful in bringing vulnerable children to the track of well-being, talent and social rise. This is what everyone is suffering from. Prevention of exclusion and strengthening inclusion have been the most repeated political administrative slogans for a couple of decades. In the age of the underachievement of the welfare state, problems are seen, projects are undertaken as fragmentary and short-term development measures, but profound social policy conclusions remain floating. We are in a state of confusion, which is reflected in over-compensated policy speech and undersized national decisions that could be implemented at local and regional level. Could we all — political decision-makers, the service, experts, civil society, businesses — agree on this need for a national child policy?’ This is apparently from Kurttila’s ‘own pen’, since he has signed,and I am directly saying that he is present in this plain language,in a less free script. In my opinion, however, it sits well on this important issue. Well, the matter has not yet been dealt with in the committee, but we have already started an expert consultation, which is why I am a little more aware of it, and I would almost venture to say that, from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we certainly support the adoption of such a strategy for children, and it must, of course, raise this issue of child inequality at the very heart of the issue. There has been a lot of talk about this and, of course, that is where the issues that are essential for the future of children relate to early childhood education and education in general, without forgetting, of course, the development of family policy as a whole. Then we Social Democrats have had our own working group on child poverty, and we have far-reaching ambitious guidelines on this issue last November. When the clock is ticking and I try to stay there in 10 minutes, I will now adjust to this important second degree, especially this compulsory education. There is a very interesting detail here on page 122 of the report: ‘The major issue of nondiscrimination is the age of learning, which will end the support needed for most children until two years before they have reachedthe contractual age limit for the child’s rights. Why are universal services limited to the age of 18 only to children who progress successfully in secondary education?” This continues very dynamically and deeply in this report, but it is a political and philosophical question that a 16-year-old is a child and a child should not and should not have the right to decide for himself that he stays on the couch for a day and at night watch and play games. That is why this thinking of raising compulsory school age, when it is inserted into this whole core of comprehensive school, that children and young people consider it natural that education, schooling, continuing in high school, vocational education, folk college also after that elementary school, is, in a way, preventing this exclusion, suspension and that we then have almost 10,000 young people from every age group from being more or less Hunngo. I believe that this report has been written in great dignity and depth. Thank you again for having it here in Parliament for its reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u74	Mr President! Tuomas Kurttila's report to Parliament 2018 is important for making changes. We are not enough to bring vulnerable children into a better future. The skills level and learning outcomes of children are falling. A significant part of each age group will be deprived of education and employment. The health inequalities in the population are already high among secondary students. The well-being of children with an immigrant background is considerably lower than that of other children. Regional and social segregation is a reality. The crystallization of the Alderman’s account tells us that major changes are needed now. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Over 100,000 children live in poor families. The number of poor children has grown almost threefold since the 1990s, but the government has further weakened the position of deprived families by cutting child benefit and unemployment benefit. Children are divided at an early stage, among other things, by hobbies. Every child should have the opportunity to engage in a hobby. When the disposable income of the family is limited, the child is easily excluded from the consumption and hobby habits of the group. Even one good hobby of a child reduces the risk of social exclusion. We must guide support for the interests of children with low incomes and support the activities of the third sector. Investing in the well-being of children and families is an investment in the future. Therefore, welfare services supporting families with children should not be scrapped, as was done during the recession in the 1990s. Cuts to services such as school health care, maternity clinic and level of education increased the depression generation, which was reflected in increased care and increased marginalisation. Now the same displacement of children is taking place before our eyes. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] Displacement begins early in childhood. The government has deprived children of the unemployed of the right to full-time day care, and the size of child groups has been increased. Many municipalities took advantage of the possibility provided by the Government Decree to increase the size of child groups and the possibility provided by law to limit the right to day care. Children are in an unequal position depending on the municipality in which they live and the employment situation of their parents. There has been an increase in commotion and anxiety during day care, as has participation and nausea. It's cruel if a child doesn't get the morning oatmeal and feels different from the others. It is wrong for someone to be left out in a large group when they have to go home in the middle of playing. The most vulnerable children would benefit most from day care, but few families are going to apply for full-time care for child welfare reasons. Many fear stigmatisation in the eyes of the community. Therefore, the right of all children to day care must be restored. The cuts in vocational education and training have led to a reduction in vocational training and a decline in local education. The world has become more complex and many jobs require skills and skills. The employment rate of people relying on comprehensive school alone is only 40%. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] No wonder the child councilman is talking about marginalising structures. Displacement and the culture of sending away must be stopped now. Therefore, a second level is needed free of charge so that people with low income can also afford to go to upper secondary school or vocational school. It is therefore necessary to extend the compulsory education age in order to guarantee training for each young person. The first thing we have to do is return to training the money that the government has cut. Upper secondary school failure has been a desirable development, but it has increased loneliness. The reform of the Lu-kiolai must respond to the fight against loneliness and the strengthening of community. Finnish comprehensive school needs reform. One in eight boys can't read properly after elementary school. Children’s health care providers heard worrying news that the number of children has increased. It is important to create a learning environment where everyone's strengths are supported. School bullying must be stopped by spreading the best practices of the Kiva School project everywhere. More creativity, community and forest trips are needed for learning and teaching. I would like to raise the issue of the safety of small schoolchildren. This country needs a law that guarantees preschoolers and first and second graders afternoon clubs. In them, a child can spend meaningful time after a short school day. According to the report, children’s access to mental health care and the use of psychotropic drugs have multiplied. This is extremely worrying. The number of clients in child welfare has grown strongly in both open and substitute care, and social workers are overloaded. More multi-professional work is needed, but also a dimension to the law on how many children's welfare children can be the primary responsibility of one social worker. Municipalities that have invested in early support for children and families have achieved good results. A good example is the experience of Imatra, which has invested in the home service of families with children and other preventive work since the maternity clinic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u75	Mr President! It is a great thing that the report of the Ombudsman for Children is now before Parliament. It is important that the vote of children is part of the decision-making process of the MPs and of the whole parliament. With this report for the first time, I would like to say that I think it is important that in the future this report should perhaps have analysed more closely what has been done, what is good, what is the key points of pain. This is a challenging package now. That's what we're gonna get into. But I am already saying that Finland needs a national strategy for children. The Ombudsman and his office have made a good point of what the organisations have demanded. So that's a good strategy for children. It would make children even more visible in society and political interest, and the different situations and needs of children would be reflected in all decision-making in Parliament, in potential future provinces and also at municipal level. And I warmly support that assessment of the impact of children on all decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u76	Mr President! There are problems in this report. Many of them are the result of long-term development, which is also highlighted in this report. One such larger phenomenon overall, which we need to talk about even more, is our low birth rate in this country, about 50,000 children a year. That too is the result of a very long-term development. But we need to change that. It is a matter of fate for the nation that a turning point is being made here. I do hope that all the parties will think about this theme and I am happy that the next government will take a big theme for this to drive, no matter what the parties are there. It will probably not just be resolved by political decisions, because it is always a family choice, but what can be done on the political side must be viewed. There is also a need for a wider change of attitude, including in working life in a child-friendly direction, and a reform of family leave is also needed, but with a view to children and families. When this is a short time, I still wonder if there is a pay cartel here in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u77	Mr President! It is very good that the report of the Ombudsman for Children is now being discussed here in Parliament. A lot of important things have been raised here. Yes, it is hard for a child’s representative to say that the welfare state is currently underachieved from a child’s point of view. He notes in that report that vulnerable children cannot find that social rise through the path of education in this society in the right way anymore. I think it's a big deal, and it's important. Mr Kaikonen referred to this birth rate. We have a very serious place in this birth rate in Finnish society. You can say in that way that there are many different reasons behind it. There are many people there who fear what the future will bring — not only in Finland, but globally, in the world, climate change, security and so on — but there are a lot of things that start from there,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u78	Mr President! Yes, this report clearly states that in Finland the problem is in particular the fragmentation of legislation, project-basedness and lack of systematic impact assessment on children. It is also very clear when it comes to following the decisions taken by this government, which have been very glaring and inconsistent with the services of families with children. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u79	Mr President! When the Ombudsman for Children organised a seminar with a representative from each party and discussed his report to Parliament, the representative of each party at that event felt that Finland needed a child strategy. I therefore find it incomprehensible that such a country, whose objective is the welfare of children, has not been able to produce a strategy for children. In fact, we lack leadership as regards children's rights, politics, well-being, and most flagrantly this is reflected in child protection. We recently received an appeal from the Child Welfare Workers to Parliament that there is an emergency, in practice far too much work load per social worker. We therefore have a great deal of work to do, and this
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u80	Mr President! It has to be said that most of the children and families are well. The basic needs have been met. There are food, care, care and loving parents, but there are also hobbies and friends, but society must catch and take responsibility for those who do not cope with all the challenges I listed. So the basics still need to be put in order. Birth rates have decreased, as has been noted, and custody and child welfare are increasing. The question is why this is happening. There are many of these reasons, but I am pleased that Minister Saarikko has launched the Lappe project for this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u81	At this point in the debate, I will give answers to the representatives of Kari, Salonen, Essayah, Heinonen and Karimäki, and then continue according to the list. There are many Members who have asked to speak early this morning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u82	Mr President! This annual report is an issue which should certainly stop every single representative in this Chamber. The Child Affairs Ombudsman is talking to us about the time of underachievement of the welfare state and the structural indifference in relation to the inequality of children, and yes, this is now such an emergency cry that should make us change direction. This policy must be based on the fact that decisions to increase inequality between children are simply not taken and the mistakes made with regard to children must be corrected. In particular, the Ombudsman for Children has repeatedly raised the problem of the weakening of day care during this period, and that is why we hope that by now, at the latest, this document will prompt the government parties to consider their approach and change these decisions because it is difficult to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u83	Mr President! I believe that it is necessary to have a strategy for child policy in Finland, as many have already said. The fall in birth rates, the accumulation of decisions affecting children in some families, and the increase in inequality among children are absolutely deafening alarm signals for us decision-makers. We can no longer close our eyes and say that we did not know. In the model of the Finnish welfare state, we need to do better. The Ombudsman for Children talks about the underachievement of the welfare state. This is a very descriptive word for what is happening now. Nor can we hide behind the economy. Hard economic policy is to invest in children. That is a tough economic policy. It is not a soft policy, so anyone who is in favour of a tough economic policy would think they want to invest in children. Mr Kaikonen called for a change of attitude in the workplace, but we do need a change of attitude in politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u84	Mr President! It is easy to agree here with what has been said in support of the appeal made by the Ombudsman for Children, that we should create common objectives for this child policy and then also have concrete indicators to look at this issue. In today's work, the fact that the Child Affairs Commissioner has stated that this underachievement in the welfare state is possible is precisely that we have so much fragmentation in this child policy and that it is divided between so many actors, and in that sense the whole is often poorly understood. As far as the budget is concerned, these child impact assessments would probably always be the most important thing to do, whether at municipal level, at any future regional level or here in Parliament. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, here in Parliament, we have often received proposals in which these effects on children have not been assessed. But all in all, it is good that we now have access to the debate and, hopefully, to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u85	The reply to Mr Heinose and, after him, the last response to this debate was to Mr Karimäki, who opened this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u86	Mr President! It is good that we have a common goal for a more child-friendly Finland, and measures have been taken during this term of government, such as a hobby guarantee, which was raised here in the debate: every Finnish child, regardless of his or her family background and income background, would be entitled to a single hobby. This has been a central objective of the coalition, and even when he was Minister of Education, Mr Sarkomaa returned to school club hours. It is one excellent way to get children hobbies. Early childhood education has also been invested in. Free early childhood education came to nearly 7,000 new families at the turn of the year, and early childhood education fees have been reduced so that more and more children are covered by early childhood education. It is also valuable that there is a desire to invest in basic education. The doubling of the gender equality allowance is one concrete step towards helping those children in particular who need help, and now there is also the emphasis on the cost of secondary education and on the possibility for every young person to have access to secondary education in vocational education or upper secondary school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u87	Mr President! The very important report by the High Commissioner for Children is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and has drawn very important conclusions together. No one in itself disputes the fact that certain key government projects are good and can also bring good reforms, but the big picture is that there are only fragmented individual projects when basic services have been broken down and the right of the child and young people to education has been weakened. These basics should be firmly in place for the prevention of exclusion, and a hobby guarantee must also be supported, but it really needs effective action to put it into practice. [TimoHeinonencall—Interpreting and Left ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u90	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u91	Mr President! Mr Kurttila, the Child Affairs Commissioner, deserves warm thanks for an excellent report which I hope will be read carefully by all Members of Parliament and other decision-makers. There are a lot of important aspects to the report. Tuomas Kurttila writes well: Finland is living in a time of underachievement of the welfare state. We are not sufficiently successful in bringing disadvantaged children to the track of well-being, talent and social rise. Prevention of exclusion and strengthening inclusion have been the most repeated political administrative slogans in recent years. In practice, the problems are handled by projects and fragmented development activities and the profound conclusions of social policy are not being drawn. We are in a state of confusion that is reflected in oversized political speech and undersized national decisions. — — — — Powerful text for all of us, isn't it? Mr President! The Ombudsman for Children continues in his report: The low income of the family is linked to the scarcity of consumption and social and cultural risks. Low income has been found to be easily inherited from the child’s later stages of life. The social mobility of children from low-income families is more difficult. Consequently, differences between social positions — or class differences — are likely to widen. According to a report by the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, children of poor families have fallen outside the ordinary world. In poor families, children have to give up their hobbies. They are unable to attend a birthday party; they are even teased more often than others. They feel that they cannot influence things that matter to themselves. In families with unemployment, economic or health problems or other difficulties, parents may not have enough resources to meet the needs of children. This causes the child to feel alone and to experience an outsider. Mr President! Savings and cuts in services hurt families, children and young people most in need of support. If services do not meet people, the most vulnerable will suffer. Both regional and socio-economic differences in health and well-being appear to be permanent and even growing in some places. We have forgotten that investing in children is one of the most important investments in the future that we can do. That is why the SDP's objective of free early childhood education is so important. According to studies, one euro invested in early childhood education will come back to society many times over. This is the real issue when we talk about the welfare economy and investments in welfare in the context of sustainable development. Now the direction is completely wrong. The government's decisions increase income differentials, and this is done with complete awareness. This is not fair, but it is not a sensible future policy either. Investments in the well-being of all benefit society as a whole. On the other hand, cuts at the wrong points are costly for society. In order to ensure policy coherence in sustainable development, the welfare economy must be placed at the centre of policy and the red line of policy action as a whole. The economic and human consequences of decisions must be better anticipated by carrying out impact assessments and calculating alternative costs, as well as introducing new scenarios and welfare indicators. This government promised to carry out a child impact assessment at first, but unfortunately this promise too has been forgotten in a hurry. Mr President! Thomas Kurttila strongly points out: ‘If the welfare state is not able to play the basis for life, it is unsuccessful. “ One key factor that smooths out is early childhood education. Investing in early childhood education is one of the best future investments we can make. Early childhood education promotes the development of children’s language and cognitive skills, improves school preparedness and later success on the school path. Early childhood education also has a positive impact on the development of children's socio-emotional skills. There seems to be broad consensus among researchers on the benefits of early childhood education, both nationally and internationally. All children benefit from early childhood education, but particularly effective for children from the weakest conditions, whose growth environment has factors that hamper their development, such as health problems or problems of social interaction. However, benefits will only be realised if early childhood education is of sufficient quality. Mr President! The savings made by the government in early childhood education have weakened its quality. The messages I hear from the field of early childhood education are more than worrying. The situation of day-care centres is chaotic in many places due to the limitation of subjective day-care rights and the increase in group sizes. In large groups, individual consideration of children is difficult, and the loss and arrival of part-time children make them restless. [Esko Kiviranta’s interlude] Many professionals have said that the conflict between reality and professional identity is so great that they are exhausted from their own work — sad messages. There is a basis for developing early childhood education if professionals feel that they are unable to do their basic work in high-quality groups and when children are constantly changing, and that they are unable to meet children as individuals. A professional in early childhood education told us that he no longer wants to work in a day care center when the groups are so large that the work seems like a conveyor belt job. Many parents have also told us that they do not want to take their child to day care, for large groups are making the children anxious and no one will be able to respond to the needs of the children. Children in particular need of help and support are suffering from this situation. The government has put responsibility for large groups in municipalities, but, as Mr Kurttila says, early childhood education should be regarded as a national issue, not as urban policy or a matter for municipalities. At the moment, the child’s life is too affected by what family and municipality he is born into. In addition to inequalities between municipalities, limiting subjective day care rights to 20 weeks for children whose guardians do not work full-time, study full-time or act as entrepreneurs is also unequal. The limitation of the right to day care has divided families and children into different baptisms. Why do children of the unemployed receive less early childhood education than others? Would these children not be particularly in need of full - time early education? In the case of a child who is subject to a restriction, an extended day-care right may be applied for and, in general, granted in the municipality. The basis may be, for example, the need for child support, child welfare and family conditions. But here too, problems have been noted. These children are easily labelled as children of troubled families, and there is a great risk that this stigma will become a self-fulfilling forecast. Mr President! To this end, I took the following four policy recommendations from the report by the Ombudsman for Children, which I believe are very important. Firstly, politicians should get to know the lives of children and young people who have fallen from normal everyday life. Secondly, the Declaration of the Rights of the Child must be taken seriously and as a guiding principle for any policy. Thirdly, the establishment of a strategy for child policy and the monitoring of its implementation must be carried out as a matter of urgency. Fourthly, the assessment of the impact on children and proper indicators must be made available in both Parliament and at regional and municipal level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u92	Mr President! “From the state of well-being to the reform That is what the Ombudsman for Children calls on all of us decision-makers to do in this report. It's a stop-and-seek, but it's also an important message. Legislation in Finland — and this is also stated in the report — is a good example compared to many other countries, but there is something to be developed. The structures of the welfare state will deteriorate and become more rigid unless they are constantly developed in line with the needs of both today and the future. The Ombudsman for Children calls for the preparation of a national strategy for child policy as a basis for the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The problem in Finland is the fragmentation and project-based nature of legislation and the lack of systematic impact assessment on children. These shortcomings have become sadly clear during this reign. The importance and importance of early intervention will be emphasised, but when I assess the practical measures taken by the government, the inconsistency and fragmentation that the child affairs commissioner writes about will be evident. In this previous debate, Mr Vehkaperä referred to the Lappe project, and that is a good example. The Government is therefore directing the funding of key projects to a well-founded and supported Lappe project, which is a fixed-term project. At the same time, permanent weakenings of legislation, such as early childhood education, are being introduced to increase inequality among children. The field of early childhood education has become more diverse in Finland, and at the moment there is a situation in which children’s rights to early childhood education are fulfilled differently depending on the locality in which they live and what kind of family background the child happens to come from. Municipal early childhood education may be organised in Finland on a full-time, part-time or part-week basis, depending on whether and how the municipality has implemented restrictions on subjective day care rights. Group sizes of early childhood education vary according to whether they are a municipal or private service provider and depending on whether the municipality has increased group sizes in the way the government has allowed. In addition, many municipalities also offer family day care and a diverse range of open early childhood education services and club activities. There are also varying practices in municipalities as regards service guidance and its use. Some municipalities even seek to direct parents, mainly mothers, to home care support and to use open early childhood education services as a result of austerity pressures. These different municipal practices and the different attitudes of families towards early childhood education are reflected in regional variations in participation rates, both at the national level and within municipalities and cities. Changes in private day care in recent years also affect the equality of Finnish children. Pre-private day care providers were mainly small players, associations-based or foundations, who stressed alternative pedagogy, for example, but at the moment we can talk about the day care business in Finland too, as large profit-oriented domestic and foreign chains have increased their role in early childhood education services. In these commercial day-care centres, staff have lower wages than average and children in need of special support are not necessarily taken into private day-care centres at all. So this, too, is a practice that discriminates between children. For this reason, privatisation cannot only be a local issue, which will be resolved at local level, but must, in the view of the Left Alliance, be regulated at national level by extending this ban on profit, like basic education, also to the aspect of early childhood education. This, too, is an issue which has been specifically addressed by a child welfare representative in Finland in the past. On Monday, I myself visited a day care centre in Turku, which is located in an area where there is unemployment and a lot of people who speak foreign languages. The strong message to parliamentarians from professionals working with children on a daily basis was that more attention should be paid to group sizes and staff remuneration and working conditions if the quality of early childhood education and child equality are to be promoted. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] Last week the Left Alliance published its own policies and proposals for developing a policy on early childhood education. We want to restore the subjective right to early childhood education throughout the country, reduce groups of early childhood education, extend pre-school education to two years, extend the prohibition of profit to early childhood education like basic education, develop the principle of local day care and raise the wages of all early childhood education staff to better meet the demands of work. Another big and important issue to which the Ombudsman for Child Welfare draws attention in this report is the situation in the area of child protection. The number of customers in child welfare and the burden of social workers have increased strongly due to cuts in other services, as stated in this report. This once again highlights how inconsistent the decisions taken during this regime have been. It is clear that the long-term pressure on child protection will only be reduced by improving the whole service system for children and families with children, but I am still concerned that the government does not seem to be taking up the proposal for a statutory maximum number of clients in child protection, even by social workers and the Left Alliance. The problems have persisted for too long despite a number of attempts to repair, and the burden of social work also directly affects the ability of municipalities to have sufficient qualified staff recruited for child protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u93	Mr President! The report of the Ombudsman for Children highlights that childhood gives direction to the subsequent development of a person. The report states: ‘In the case of a child, it will be repeated in the later months. What is achieved in childhood is multiplied by many good things both for the individual and for society.” I think it is a good idea to include the top theme of the thinking of Janusz Korczak, a pioneering pedagogist from the beginning of the 20th century: childhood is not just a preparation for adulthood but a meaningful life in itself. Mr President! The report by the High Commissioner for Children is the first in the history of our country. It is an exceptionally important and worthy report. The report of the Ombudsman for Children reveals challenging challenges, and in some cases it is very harsh for the Finnish governments. I welcome the fact that the Ombudsman for Children is openly expressing his views, even though the report contains many political issues in which there is no consensus. However, we should not focus too much on disagreements, but focus on common objectives. In the midst of party politics and different ideologies, we all pursue the same goal in child policy: the interests of children, which include care, security and the right to childhood. The Ombudsman for Children therefore calls on us as parliamentarians to define and adopt together the key objectives of child policy and to monitor the concrete indicators of change. I believe that there is a common will in Parliament to make the impact assessment of children a comprehensive part of the decision-making process. As a result, I am now collecting names for an initiative to make the child impact assessment a well-established part of the preparation of legislation by the ministries. It is a matter that we all share, and there are already signatories to this initiative from all the parliamentary groups. Finland has been talking for years about the importance of carrying out a child impact assessment. For example, as early as 2005, the Commission of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, entitled Finland, which is suitable for children, stated: ‘All social measures and decisions concerning children must take account of the child’s benefit. “ The same goal is repeated in Finland's first National Action Programme on Human Rights adopted by the Government in 2012. Projects under the Action Programme included a project to integrate children and young people in all decision-making. The challenge of today's child policy is its fragmentation. While individual measures are being taken to promote the well-being of children, a more holistic approach is needed. The state of affairs should be changed as a matter of priority, so that government proposals will include information on whether a child impact assessment has been carried out when preparing them. Mr President! Parents have responsibility for children, and we, as decision-makers, also have responsibility for the society that we are building for future generations. Children are naturally hopeful, and so must we be hopeful as adults and dare to boldly pursue a Finland that is the best place for children in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u94	Madam President! Mr. Tuomas Kurttila has now given Parliament his report for the first time. The report shall be submitted once every four years. It concerns issues related to the work of the Ombudsman for Children and aims to create conditions for Parliament to build national child policy and to systematically review the relationship between Finnish legislation and UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child. I would therefore like to begin by challenging you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on the objective of the strategy for children which this report calls for. Is it barking at this or the previous government or its previous governments for doing or not doing so? I don't think so. I believe that the aim would be to find the things and objectives on which we could finally agree and to create a more long-term policy and measures. I hope that at some point we can focus on this too and ask ourselves whether there are real and real conditions for this. On the basis of this debate today, it sounds a little bit like not necessarily. Equality of opportunity is the cornerstone of the Finnish welfare society. Every person must have equal opportunities regardless of family background, financial situation or place of residence. Equality of opportunity is also one of the main values of the coalition. At the heart of decision-making on children is the safeguarding and strengthening of this equality through, among other things, education, family services, maternity clinics and various social and health services. However, the level of education is still strongly inherited in Finland. Although we are at the forefront of equality and accessibility in education and training together with Estonia, the child’s family background and the starting point still have too much impact on the way he feels about his ability and willingness to train. Inheritance of education and the segregation of children's well-being and realities is a question of many things. On the other hand, the wealth of the family and the attitudes learned from home, the level of education of parents and the perception of the profitability of education, as well as their place of residence and, for example, their distance from educational institutions still depend on education and inclusion. One of the strongest factors is baseline differences and the impact of family background. The importance of children’s early years for the future’s success in school and the survival of life continues to be the subject of new knowledge. Studies show that investing especially in the early years of a child can prevent many problems in the future. The Government reduced early childhood education fees by a total of EUR 70 million at the beginning of the year. The reform has been estimated to increase the participation rate of early childhood education and increase the employment rate of parents by up to 4200 persons. I admit that the government has also taken measures which I personally wish had not been taken. Group sizes are an important factor in the quality of early childhood education. However, other good deeds are being done. The early childhood education law will be reformed and the child’s best interests and well-being will be the first priority. Early childhood education is a systematic pedagogical activity carried out by education professionals. With the new early childhood education law, two thirds of people in early childhood education will be highly educated, either candidates for education or socio-nomics by 2030. According to the studies, the high level of competence of personnel also improves the quality and effectiveness of early childhood education. It is therefore extremely important to invest in staff skills and, at the same time, to increase the number of training places in order to ensure the availability of staff in the future. More cooperation across administrative borders is needed in order to achieve the best interests of the child and child policy. As stated in the report of the Ombudsman for Children, too deep boundaries between different administrative sectors can hamper the emergence of good practice for children. The Coalition Party agrees with the Ombudsman for Children that matters relating to children should always be decided in the best interests of the child. Similarly, services for children and families should be accessible as close as possible to the actual everyday life of children and families. The long-term objective of child policy must be to assess the impact of children on decision-making, to ensure the well-being and livelihood of families and to ensure that all children live in their childhood regardless of their family background or place of residence on an equal footing. Children need to be seen more clearly as their own population with population specific needs. On the other hand, major steps have been taken during this term of government in the development of child and family services from the starting point for taking into account the real needs of children and young people, including through the Lappe project. I would like to correct the misunderstanding that this is a project of this kind, which, as it were, is now doing something with project funding and is ending it. This project is over, isn't it? [Li Andersson's interlude] but the aim of the project is to find good operating models for the dissemination of good operating models from one municipality to another or from one province to another and to make them more accessible to families than they already exist today, and when this project ends, we hope that these operating models will be in permanent use. [Department : Netarte resources! ] I would also like to comment on this long report by the Ombudsman for Children, which contains a great deal of information on literature, and on which, on the one hand, researchers have written some of these sections, the point raised by Mr Gustafsson, which talks about the upper age limit for compulsory education and, on the other hand, about the kind of services and support we should offer to those who do not go to or interrupt the second stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u95	Looks like we're ready for a debatation right now. Let's take a short debat. I would ask those who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u96	Mr President! Talking about good things is easy when things are good for you in life. It may be difficult for families with different situations to talk about them, and this is something we should remember in this Chamber. Nor do I really understand why the Assembly feels that this report is somehow a threat to its own policy. Of course, it's hard to listen to the facts. The limitation of subjective day care rights, for example, will remain in history, which is also mentioned here. However, it must be said that this booklet is a Finnish children’s book. When you read this and take a good look at it, it is not the decisions taken in recent years that are being discussed here, but, for example, the government programmes from 1945 to 2015. That is why each of us — everyone — should look in the mirror and read these things carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u97	Mr President! There has been a good and important debate here. I'd like to pay attention to a couple of things. Really: in Finland the birth rate is too low. After all, we have been in a situation where the state is in debt, the debt has increased and the birth rate has decreased, and the debt note that is included in the maternity package per year has amounted to EUR 100,000 when EUR 5 billion is distributed by 50,000. I think it's too much. That may also be one reason why families look at how many children can be made in this situation. — When the Greens talk about sustainable development, this is not sustainable development. President! The second is this wage cartel, which is said to be here in the capital region for low-paid kindergarten teachers who are well-educated. This could also be addressed by the Ombudsman for Children. There's nothing to excuse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u98	Mr President! First of all, Mr Ala-Nissila, I would like to say that the Left has not defended the wage cartel in any way, but, on the contrary, is now at the forefront of explaining it, because we are in favour of higher wages for early childhood education professionals. As far as low birth rates are concerned, I think that Finnish families with children are more concerned about the adequacy of their own income, whether working hours are sufficient, whether the housing debt is paid, whether the student loan is paid, the share of which this government has increased, than whether there is a concern about the development of government debt on the couch. Yes, for many families with children, the problems of their daily livelihoods are a priority. As far as Mr Multala's speech is concerned, I would like to say once again that the Lappe project itself is not a problem, but this is a typical example of what the Ombudsman for Children writes about: good projects are being carried out which are fixed-term, and then you are making permanent unequal cuts in legislation that you are not prepared to correct even after expert criticism, not even in a situation where the state of the state of the state of the state of the state is improved. Finnish children suffer from these permanent handicaps that you have made during this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u99	Mr President! It is our job to take care of the most vulnerable. There has been criticism here that this report by the Commissioner for Children only raises some shortcomings and does not mention the good things. Of course, some families with children are doing well, and that is great, but it is up to us to make sure that everyone is doing well, that all children have the opportunity to have a good future, that all children receive adequate support so that all children can participate in early childhood education, get on the way to school, get support during it. That is why it is extremely important that this report should now come before Parliament and that we can ensure here that every child in Finland has a chance of a good life, regardless of the background they come from, the wealth of the family, where they live. That is a joint task that we must take care of and that is why it is important that those pains are clearly highlighted here, because we must address them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u100	Madam President! In a certain way, it is unfortunate to see that there are no ministers listening when we are discussing such an important issue — a very strong text in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u101	Mr President! Somehow I am a little confused when clearly you did not quite hear what I said — you hear what you wanted to hear. I do not feel that this report is in any way a threat to our policy. I challenged us here to think about what they are linking the factors in order to create the long-term strategy for children that is called for in this report. That's what I was trying to tell you. [Emma Kari’s interlude] And then, as far as this Lappe project is concerned, it is in itself a project, but it is a bad example of something bad being done with project funding. I understand that criticism, and that is very appropriate. I think that we should consider precisely the measures we are using to strengthen the services of children and families, or, on the other hand, to encourage what we can do by means of policy, that families feel that it is worthwhile to have and have children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u102	Madam President! I myself at least experienced it, and I gladly greeted Mr Multala's idea of what kind of picture we adults and we in society give of children, young people and families of the future, what kind of picture we give to the young men and women who wonder whether I would be a father or a mother, what kind of picture we give of how they might be able to succeed in the education or the running of children's daily lives. Those joys and successes, they also fit into the everyday lives of families, and they deserve to be talked about. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u105	Mr President! It seems a little strange to listen to these arguments of the government party representatives. After all, the services do not improve by speaking them better, and this report by the Ombudsman for Children’s Affairs, for example, makes it very clear from the current distress in child protection — ‘The stress on child protection’s ‘situation in this section’ —that the cuts in services have led to a fire-extinguishment,that we have to operate basic services,and this government policy...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u109	Mr President! Children are a matter of great importance to all of us parties, and all parties have been in turn in government, and every year the number of children has decreased and decreased. We're empty. We're starting to blame each other. We have done a lot of big, good things, so have the previous governments, and certainly no one has done them because it is worse for families with children. If we are to get on with this, we should now find some bigger, clear measures, such as a parenting salary, or whatever it is that we would generally be able to make the situation rise widely. With this accusation of each other, we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u110	Mr President! It has to be said that this report strikes the heart of what is actually the need for this report. When the Equality Act was adopted, it was said that it would be sensible in future to assess the impact of children and to seek a bigger strategic back when it comes to how children and young people and their well-being are genuinely at the centre of political activity, and I think that this deserves praise for the success of this. But this report is a cold ride in terms of how the segregation process is actually reflected today and how it can also be aggravated by political decisions. At the same time, this report shows how structurally indifferent policies can and can be made. That is why I think that an assessment of the impact of children and a strategy for children would be really necessary. This is a serious place because it can be shown that worse can no longer be much more can be done when looking at the situation of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u111	Mr President! The big message of the report by the Ombudsman for Children is that inequality has increased considerably and that it is precisely in the most vulnerable families, the poorest families, those families with children at high risk of marginalisation, [MariaGuzenina’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u112	Mr President! It is quite incredible to listen to this debate that services have been taken away from the children, since the last season there was a significant cut in the central government shares of the municipalities and the municipalities produced a great deal of these services. Major cuts were made in the 1990s
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u115	Madam President! We had a discussion about the finances of municipalities at some point in the past and it was said that it was also written by the government parties themselves in our reports that the local government finances were deteriorating. As I recall, the municipal economy has been cut — I tried to look for that exact figure — by EUR 880 million or something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u118	Madam President! Representative Ala-Nissilä was concerned about the salaries of kindergarten teachers in the capital region. We are also very concerned. The Helsinki Council made an effort to replace holiday allowance cuts made by the government, for example, for kindergarten teachers and all other low-paid women-dominated sectors, locally by wage increases. Unfortunately, both members of the centre voted against this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u125	Mr President! The child’s own participation and voice are easily ignored by our decision-makers — probably because the child can’t and can’t vote yet. However, legislation should be developed in a more child-friendly form in order to improve the child’s inclusion, because our young people and children have a future. In preparing legislation, account should be taken of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, not only in those laws which directly affect children, such as the Child Welfare Act. A regular assessment of the impact on children in the preparation of legislation would be one way of identifying regulatory points where consistency with the agreement on the rights of the child must be ensured. There are wide regional differences in the availability of services to children. Children and families are in no way equal in regional terms: many services are too dependent on municipalities, especially if the services are not guaranteed by law. As the decision-maker of a small municipality, I have often wondered whether child health clinic work and early childhood education could be combined into one whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u126	Madam President! When you look at the municipal economy, it is of course a matter of paramount importance for the life of a child and for the life of families, because the services of the municipality organise and ensure that the family is doing well in the environment in which the family lives. The Government’s report 4/2017 clearly states in Finnish that ‘The interaction of Prime MinisterJuhaSipilä’s Government’s measures is netly reinforcing the local economy at the level of 2019,which municipalities and joint municipal authorities are fully implementing the measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u129	Mr President! In the Education Committee yesterday, child father Kurttila presented this report and had a debate. I think he said one interesting thing about this conversation, now that this goes like this a little traditional to throw axes, that for 20% of children Finland is really different from the others. We all know here that we mainly have a child policy for services, education and so on. But then this underachievement touches me when I exaggerate — he now used the word — especially about 20 percent of the children. These are always bold figures, but it must be something of that magnitude. The question now is that we must have the political will that schools provide those who need it. Home services work in municipalities according to the Imatra model. In early childhood education, group sizes are reasonable, and children will also receive it in social terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u130	Madam President! Every Finnish child has the right to early childhood education. That's 20 hours a week. [Left: No more!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u131	Mr President! A little bit of the mood comes from the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties that a messenger is being shot here. It does not create a worse everyday life for children that the opposition and the Ombudsman for Children raise these problems, but that the government makes bad decisions. You should look in the mirror now. This is the traditional strategy of the Sipilä Government, starting with the Prime Minister himself, that there is such a sad atmosphere of debate when we are opposed to our cuts, otherwise everything would be fine. Well, cutting children, the poor, the students is cutting those families with children who need the most support is an arrogant and cruel policy. If you want to change what the Child Affairs Commissioner is criticising, that in Finland's big economic policy, when you put them on the table, the centre and the assembly throw the children aside, and then, after the decision to cut them off, you make a few projects here and there, and you think that this is what you do, then the project money does not fix the fact that basic services are cut off, group sizes are raised and conditions are weakened by those who need the most support. This is the structural indifference.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u132	Madam President! This debate has well highlighted what the Ombudsman for Children says in his report, namely this lack of an overall assessment, which causes this family policy to become fragmented. We have heard from the representatives of the centre, Jarva and Vehkaperä of all the good things the government has done, but at the same time it forgets that the government has made a number of decisions that increase inequality. Child-reduction in taxation is eliminated, child benefits were already removed from the index and their level was cut, the amount of national pension-related benefits has been reduced, children of the unemployed do not have the same rights as children of working parents, group sizes have been raised. The cuts have been particularly targeted at those who are already in a difficult position. Reducing the poverty of families with children and alleviating its consequences requires a coherent policy, the overall assessment that the Child Welfare Ombudsman is seeking here. We have over 100,000 children living in Finland below the poverty line,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u133	Let us take a few more speeches and then go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u134	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the issue of children and young people is so important,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u137	Mr President! It is now quite clear from the speeches made by the MPs of the government parties that it is still not being read, that what the experts really say is not being studied, what this report clearly says. The weakening of early childhood education and day care that you have done has hit the most vulnerable children. [MirjaVehkaperä-MarisannaJarva-Hurry]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u138	Mr President! Inequality is the result of a long development, but it was not born during this term of government. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u140	Mr Jarva and then the last speech to Mr Salonen, who started this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u141	Mr President! In pursuing an overall assessment, of course, it is nice for the opposition to remember that, for example, the poorest families with children are now more easily covered by early childhood education, as payments have been reduced, [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u142	Mr President! I have expressed my surprise here that, at first, but now also during this debate, the centre, as it were, is pointing out that why only these negative issues are being raised here, and here Mrs Niinistö was very well justified. But, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you, who are here in this Chamber, are exactly those who advocate children. That is why I am very disappointed at the debate that we are now in. That is, we who should be united in the fight for these things. This debate now goes to who has done what and to the point of no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. It's not going anywhere. The idea and idea of a child policy strategy is precisely that it transcends individual government agendas, transcends individual governments, focuses on facts and puts the child at the centre. That is what we should all be talking about instead of yelling at each other about what the government is doing or not doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u143	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u144	Madam President! Yes, when you hear this debate, it becomes very clear that this guide has not been read by so many people in this Chamber. In particular, of course, it would have been desirable for the government representatives involved in the debate to have read this. What the Ombudsman for Children is saying here very clearly is that we are living in a time of underachievement of the welfare state when it comes to our children. Where we have failed the worst is that we are unable to involve the most vulnerable, the most needy children in well-being, and yes, this is something that does not change by explaining otherwise. Yes, this is the kind of thing that should stop everyone in this room. Child inequality is the biggest failure of the welfare state. At least every tenth child lives in a situation where he or she is at risk of being excluded. The level of knowledge decreases, the learning gap increases and the child’s ability to influence more and more the kind of family, region or gender he or she has been born into. The most effective way to tackle this inequality of children is to invest in well-being and equal education. That is why, when we talk about cuts in education, they are much more important than one broken election promise or one single saving. It is about the big promise of the future, the promise that has always been made in this country for our children and our grandchildren, that we will work so that you will have better things to do, that this is exactly the country that anyone can become anything. That is why our policy, our common policy, should be based on the fact that, in this Chamber, there should not once be a single decision that discriminates against the children of this country and on the existing structural indifference that the child affairs commissioner is talking about in this report. Madam President! The Child Counsellor has repeatedly and quite harshly criticised the government's cuts to day care. The decisions taken by this government to abolish the right to equal day care for children and to raise the group sizes of day care centres are precisely the decisions that must now be withdrawn. They are decisions that build a class society for children, but these decisions, this policy, the government has never agreed to take any responsibility. Black is explained in white, there is no responsibility, even though experts in child protection, all early childhood education professionals and the child welfare commissioner have repeatedly pointed out that the deterioration of day care discriminates against the children of this country, and it affects them most of all to the most vulnerable children. What the Ombudsman for Children says is that legislation that underscores the importance of the child’s family background is never in the best interests of the child. Most children who benefit most from early childhood education are excluded. In Finland, the lowest participation rate in early childhood education is in Europe. However, it is with early childhood education that we can prevent the growth of learning differences between children. If we leave this responsibility to families alone, to homes alone, then we will build a child’s class society. Instead of restricting the right of children to participate in day care and early childhood education, we should increase the participation rate in early childhood education. This is precisely why the Greens have proposed extending pre-school education to five-year-olds and making early childhood education free of charge. That is why we have proposed the return of the sizes of kindergarten groups to the period before the Sipilä government, because we want the child's school path to be supported at the very time when the support is most needed, with the first small steps. Mr President! The Commissioner for Children's Affairs's proposal to call for a strategy for children is a very necessary and very good proposal, and the Greens fully support this. Contrary to what was said earlier, this strategy does not aim to insult the government. Its aim is to create a happy, good and equal childhood, for how can a child grow up as an equal part of this country if his or her ability to create a good life depends on which family, region or gender he or she is born into? How can a child grow up as an equal part of this country if, for example, he constantly has to fear expulsion to a dangerous country? That is why we hope that the objective of this strategy, which we all hope to achieve together, will be a good childhood for everyone. Its aim is precisely to dismantle its structural indifference, to increase the proportion of children in early childhood education, to eradicate child poverty, to reduce child ill-being, to improve the status of families, to support equal parenthood, to improve the status of migrant children and to protect every child who needs protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u145	Madam President! Our children deserve only the best, and we all in this Chamber also hope for it and want to take decisions that are in the best interests of children. The report by the Ombudsman for Children is therefore welcome for discussion in this Chamber. Finland is and will be one of the best countries for our children. Finland is still at the forefront of learning outcomes, and Finnish education is equal in international comparisons. In some respects, however, many of the problems raised in the report by the Ombudsman for Children have already been addressed during the current government, and many of the problems raised there are those in which previous governments have not had the courage to intervene, such as the reform of the education system. As a new Member of Parliament and as a mother, I can be proud of all the work that has been done by the Ministry of Education during the present government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u148	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Mr Laiho, a recent Member of Parliament, raised an important issue which is often overlooked when talking about what is happening inside the houses, that is, the indoor air. I am very pleased that this issue arises because, in addition to children, we also have a large number of adult professionals in various fields, workers — kindergarten teachers, class teachers, substance teachers, other school workers and those working in day-care centres — who are exposed to indoor air problems each year. This is a concern that should be taken seriously in every municipality. This is not necessarily a problem for all municipalities. Some municipalities have handled their properties considerably better than others, and that is why the responsibility must be borne precisely in those municipalities. It is the responsibility of municipalities that those schools, day-care centres, but also, of course, nursing homes and other public places are taken care of in the way common property should be held. There has been a debate here that there have been unpleasant and painful austerity measures. It is certainly not a denial, but in my opinion the most unfair thing has been that this country has lived so long as a debt to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u157	As the name of the representative was mentioned, I will give Mr Guzenina a reply. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u158	Mr President! Yes, Mr Heinonen's memory is very selective. He misremembers how this issue of equality money has gone. So you raised up compared to last year, but when you cut so much at the beginning of this term of government, even this increase will not compensate for how much you cut out of how much equality money was put there during the last term of government. You also remember selectively that you were in the government during the last regime and you even had the Prime Minister. You may also remember that the demos refused to cut basic services as much as you requested. Instead, we brought a partial care allowance, for example, which enabled the parent to work part-time and take care of the child at the same time at home. EUR 100 increase in basic security last season. Last season inequality decreased, this season inequality has increased. Last season we invested in pollution protection. This period has been the subject of studies. However, Mr Heinonen, let us remain in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u159	I would like to make a few debatable remarks, since it seems that there is still a need here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u160	Mr President! I wouldn't be opening up a very deep economic debate right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u163	Mr President! Representative Heinonen has taken on the role of such governmental parties — excuse me for using such a word now — the role of parrot in this that repeats...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u169	Madam President! Indeed, last season, purchasing power increased when low incomes were given that EUR 100 increase in basic security. All the additional euros received by low incomes will be passed directly on to consumption. You have made a value selection, and your government's measures, tax incentives, are targeted specifically at good income, approximately EUR 300 per year. So far, no government has had an overall assessment of the impact of children, and that is a sin on everyone's list, but it is fair to expect these overall assessments to be made in the future. OAJ has stated that Finland invests the least in basic education in the Nordic countries. The government has cut off all levels of education. That is why we need a free school path from free early childhood education and basic education to free secondary education, and it has been nice to hear that the Coalition Party has also come into line with the long-term objective of this SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u170	Would Mr Heinonen like to reply to the final speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u171	Mr President! Let's take the floor, of course. Of course, it is now honest to say that it is always easy to make additional investments in debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u174	Now let us go to the list of speakers, and if there is a need for debate later, let us continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u175	Mr President! The term of government has changed, there have been various political programmes, budgets, key projects, legislative projects, many of which are individual implementations. However, as the Children’s Ombudsman says, although much is done, one has been forgotten, and it is an assessment of the impact of children. We do not have a national strategy for child policy. It's time to do it. Inequality is growing, it has been visible for a long time, learning outcomes have deteriorated, health inequalities in growth, a significant part of education and the labour market remains on the beach. We had a comprehensive expert hearing today on the subject before the Committee on Culture. The following issues arose: poverty in families with children, mental health disorders in children and young people, fragmentation of services, children in need of special support, violence, harassment, bullying, indoor air problems in kindergartens and schools, secondary equality in education, exclusion. The experts stated widely, as did the Ombudsman for Children, that a national strategy for children is needed to address these problems. The Finns of Peru are in the same line: all parties at the same table are building a national child policy that takes into account the well-being of children at the heart of the decisions. This Chamber has discussed what has been done before, and there is such a button-to-button discussion. I think it would be more fruitful to look to the future and, in line with this report, to develop new proposals for improvements to the well-being of children. Finally, I would like to raise one point, namely the eradication of bullying. We have this Nice School project, we have our own school activities to achieve zero tolerance of bullying. These measures have not yet been sufficient either. This is why I would like to raise the proposal for the appointment of a school peace ombudsman in the municipalities. Smaller municipalities could choose a joint school peace agent. Representative Action The Kankaanniemi has taken such an initiative in Jyväskylä, and I think this would be all right nationally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u176	Madam President! The report of the Ombudsman for Children has been read, examined and messages picked up. We in the centre are very much in favour of drawing up a strategy for child policy and also of following it in political decisions. To a large extent, I believe that the majority of Finnish children are well. The basic conditions in families are in order. There are food, care, care, clean clothes, arms, hobbies and friends. However, Mr Gustafsson pointed out that 20 % of children, or even more, could be excluded and people living in different bad life situations, from which society should catch. That is why we have different services and different systems to take care of all Finnish children. It must be said, however, that together we are laying the foundations for what kind of society we are building for children and young people, what kind of climate we are also building for the young men and women who are thinking about starting their own family. I hope it will be a little brighter, a little happier, also for children and young people to bring joy and happiness to families. It is clear that there must be room in our society for tackling early problems. It is important to invest in families so that we give families as much practical time and help to solve their problems as possible, from cleaning up to listening to mother or father’s concerns, and that parents sometimes have their own time. It is shocking to see that year after year our birth rate is falling, and on the other hand, the problem is that the number of detentions is increasing. We are constantly being asked for more money as the amount of child protection measures seems to be increasing year by year. Senior Social Counsellor Aulikki Kananoja has taken a strong position on improving the situation in child protection and has proposed a list of measures: We need specific support for the families. We need team-based work between professionals. Strengthening family work is important. And we need to get our client size fixed. These are all welcome proposals, and I am sure that we will then be working on the political tables. Minister Annika Saarikko has vigorously promoted the Lappe project, which is about a programme for the change of child and family services. In other words, large-scale family services will be brought together and across administrative boundaries the aim will be to provide the necessary services for families. I personally hope that this is not a fixed-term project, but that we all aim to have permanent measures in the municipalities and families and, from now on, we will have them. Mr President! Quite a number of petitions have been made here about the future of early childhood education. I myself wonder whether I am setting up the bar myself or whether I am realistically thinking about it, you might say, perhaps even a little difficult when the economy is ahead of us. By this I mean whether we can afford all these hopes, healthy in the reform of early childhood education. Personally, I wish there were, but we also need to see what we actually have in the joint mass and what we can afford at the moment. I would like us to have high-quality and comprehensive early childhood education, but that is not only because there are equal signs that it is free of charge. I would argue that I hope that this quality is reflected in many ways: We would appreciate the hire of a kindergarten teacher, that is, the training and the work they have received in their profession and do every day. So we should pay attention to the fact that the kindergarten teacher’s salary is in order. Well, then, with this free of charge: I would like to think that in the care and care of at least those under the age of three, that family education and care would be a priority and that free early childhood education could be considered in the future for those over the age of three. From August onwards, free early childhood education for five-year-olds is being tried, and I look forward to the fruits and future orientations of the experiment. But on the other hand, in high - quality early childhood education we also strive to enable both care and care professionals and children to work and be and live in healthy and safe places. At the moment, I cannot say that we have completely succeeded in this. We have many indoor schools and kindergartens in our municipalities, and we have to work hard to remove them. Then these group sizes: I also underline the message that when I speak with early childhood education professionals and visit the day-care centres there, this whole group thing comes up. It is, of course, exactly the same conversation as we are having with the school sector, i.e. the comprehensive school side of the whole group. Those groups are always far too big, no matter who you ask. So I'm sure we'll have to deal with this whole group thing, too. So when I told you so far about this list of all these pressures and changes to early childhood education, they cost money, and that is why I hope that we will think about this order, where to start and what to do first, when we think that we certainly do not have everything right now and here and now, no matter how much I trot my foot forward for the children. Mr President! I would like to finish by saying a few words about the reform of family leave. I believe that this reform should be carried out in the next parliamentary term, but it must be done from the point of view of children, not on the terms of working life or the economy. In my opinion, we politicians need to trust that bringing up different forms of childcare, making it possible for families to have a genuine and right choice as to how their own children can be cared for, is a task for us politicians — at least not to increase quotas, nor to guide and guide them from the top, which is a better option. In my opinion, family care or care is as valuable as quality day care in the hands of early childhood education professionals. In the future, I absolutely want to strengthen parenting in every way. You think you are a good mother and a good father — this should be the message of all of us politicians.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u177	Madam President! First of all, I would like to refer to the speech made by the previous speaker. Indeed, in the SDP we have set the bar high and very ambitious goal of having a genuinely free school path for children from that early childhood education to secondary education in the future. Mr Vehkaperä criticised this freedom of payment and did not consider it realistic according to his own words, and history itself always seems to repeat itself from time to time, for when the SDP had a big, ambitious target for primary school, then the centre was opposed to comprehensive school with the same arguments. Now we know the impact of comprehensive school on Finland and Finns and so that Mr Vehkaperä has also been able to study as a class teacher and work there in comprehensive school. We have also heard in this debate about the need for free secondary education, because at the moment many upper secondary schools and vocational studies are interrupted because there is simply no money for those learning materials and others. At the same time, the government has radically cut all levels of education and cut very radically, for example, the Youth Guarantee, the 96% cut, or the Skills Programme for Young Adults, a cut of EUR 20 million, which represents 80% of the total allocation. These are very worrying cuts that affect our young people and, as a result, we have nearly 100,000 adults under 30 years of age who do not have secondary education, and we need to set targets that will not happen in the future. Madam President! In this report, submitted to Parliament by the Ombudsman for Children, Tuomas Kurttila says that childhood provides the basis for everyone's life, and that is the best prevention to invest in children. The main message of Kurttila's report is clear: The Government's key projects and strategic reform are fragmented, fragmented and focused on solving individual problems. The division of major projects into administrative sectors and service packages has prevented the overall problems from being seen. Instead, the solution has been to provide a patch for the wound, including by increasing resources for special health care, such as mental health services. Yet the psychosocial problems of children and young people are growing. The UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child and the talks on the Rights of the Child have disappeared both rhetorically and discursively from government programmes. Kurttila considers it absolutely essential that Parliament should now start preparing the national strategy for child policy, which the UN has called for from Finland in 2011. The government lacks a child policy, i.e. a comprehensive strategic entity. Children must not be broken up as part of increasing competitiveness or reforming health services. This government and, yes, the previous governments should have gone decades ago to reform, not to build dims. There is almost no budget impact assessment for children and families. None of the main draft budgets of this government have taken account of children and assessed the impact. Inheritance of poverty and underprivilegedness is a state in which we must seek preventative measures. This can be prevented, inter alia, by tackling the problems of working-age people. Ensuring the well-being of children through the employment of adults and raising income levels works. The SDP has advocated a comprehensive restructuring of family and child policy, and in this report, Mr Tuomas Kurttila, the Child Affairs Ombudsman, is in line with this. Kurttila also mentions very often the need for an assessment of the impact of children and families emphasised by the SDP. The Kurttila report deals with the promotion and enhancement of intersectoral dialogue between family services and family and services — a human-to-human educational partnership. This would allow better account to be taken of the different paces of development of children. The development would not be considered as a disruption to normal, which would therefore be solved by individual medicines, but the development of the child is seen as a life cycle covering services that are active at different stages and situations. When information and support could be shared in a cross-sectoral way, problems could be addressed at an early stage. The SDP has also proposed raising parenting partnerships as a cornerstone of family policy and has promoted the same whole village growth model by presenting the idea of family centres offering diverse services that support the development and health of children. The aim is to support parents' ability to assume their educational responsibilities, i.e. to provide services close to children and people and to offer them where they are needed. I was the head of the Child Poverty Task Force in my party, and when we looked into that matter, we conducted a survey with almost a thousand responses. These everyday experts, the people who responded to this survey, listed three of the most important factors that make it difficult for families with children to live and survive in everyday life, and the main factor among them was the cost of living — including temporary work, low pay, unemployment, and so forth. We must remember that employment does not just help people's income levels. In Finland, as many as 500,000 working people live below the poverty line. In terms of these other costs, service charges and other demanding things in life, we do have differences in terms of wages. And the fees of the children's day care, and the fees of the school, and the others, were also in this work. Here in Parliament, on 7 December, there was a debate on the development of inequality, and when this report of the Ombudsman for Children was read, many times the mind returned to that debate that we had at that time on 7th of the night here in Parliament. Yes, in this report, many of the issues raised by us on the side of the opposition were underlined. At the end of the day, I would like to say that this analysis shows how decisive the role of the state and the steering mechanisms will be in shaping child policy. At the same time, this report shows many leaks in changing social policy to treat symptoms instead of human beings. This free school path is therefore one of the best things for the future that we can do in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u178	Mr President! It's ladies' day tomorrow. We women have the greatest responsibility and decision-making power over how many children are born. Why, then, do we women give birth to children more and more later, less or not at all? A lot of good and important things have been said in the report by the Ombudsman for Children before us. We have to take all these points seriously. At least no party or any representative of Parliament wishes to acknowledge that he has taken any decision that undermines the situation of children or the position of women. We have been in the government every party at a time and we feel that we have tried to do our best, but the birth rate of children is only decreasing and decreasing. For some reason we women do not want or have any more children in this world. True, children are always the gift of God, and we women must always have the opportunity to decide whether or not to have children at all. The report by the Ombudsman for Children comes at a very convenient time when yesterday the Finnish Broadcasting Company reported the collapse of the number of children. Last time so few babies were born in Finland in 1868. That was the third year of famine in Finland, now we have no famine. Crop yields were bad, and weather conditions caused deterioration for two years in a row, and people died of hunger and disease. Some provinces lost as much as a fifth of their population in a short period of time. And what is Finland like today? Despite many flaws, international comparisons of the top countries of well-being are no longer possible, but children are no longer born. Last year, Finland's population has increased only as a result of immigration. However, is this a sustainable path for the preservation of the Finnish people and culture if statistics continue to be this way, for example, until the end of the next hundred years? Of course, society must promote a good family policy. For example, the position of learning young mothers and fathers or families with multiple children is often very challenging. All parties will certainly have to look in the mirror over the last decades whether enough has been done to promote the status of families with children. However, to a large extent it is also a question of making attitudes in our society more child-friendly. Today, when making your mind feel bad is fashioned, easily hurt and felt as guilt - stricken by trying to use words that encourage children and larger numbers of children. However, this is an absolutely necessary objective. For example, the chairman of the SDP, Mrs Rinne, was quite right to talk about labour. These calculated birth rates are a national disaster. We have to take it seriously. This approach must be taken into account when designing and taking all family policy measures. Mr President! We women, do we feel equal even if we have more than one child? Can we be very proud that we have more than one child? It's a big attitude issue. We need to bring up all the things that make more children worse than women and correct them. Making more children must not be a matter of value for a woman. We need to experience that all our children have the same interests in society, a child from a small or large family. However, we women must not feel that it is our duty to be a child making machine. Our own endurance and health is the most important thing, because only then will we be able to give our best to our loved ones, that is, our children, our mate, and other loved ones with whom we take care of the children. Nor must we forget the importance of a family and other close community. Kids are our business. Let's take responsibility for the children together. Child making and child care leave must not reduce our women's pension. We must be confident that we are not alone responsible for our children. Our employers must not suffer from employing a young woman, that is, a potential mother. We mothers must be given the opportunity to break away from our work even for short periods of time, if our children need it. So, good morning ladies' day for all women!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u179	Mr President! After all, this debate this evening in this Chamber has been very colorful in some places. It is a pity that there are no Members of Parliament here today, but when the first debate took place, it was very surprised that there was a report here, a report by a child representative which does not praise the government. And, of course, it cannot be that this report has been made for the praise of the government. They are the other countries in which such agents then write the kind of text that suits the government. I'm here for a session in Karakallio. There were 90 pensioners there, and they are all very concerned about Finnish child policy. After all, they have grandchildren and grandchildren in this world. They said in one voice that the credibility of the government as the manager of common affairs has long been at a weak level. They stated separately that the social welfare reform is no longer on the tracks where the original purpose was to improve people's social and health services, but that this social welfare reform has turned into such a confusion of power politics and balance in the hands of the government. — Now I would stress that this was their opinion, that is, 90 pensioners in the Karakallio in Espoo. They were very surprised at this limitation of the right to day care from the children of the unemployed, they did not understand this at all. They then wondered, even though they themselves are retired, that the unemployed are being treated so badly today that these reforms have been exposed to cold misery. They shook their heads and wondered that there were times. The increase in inequality in education, especially as young men under the age of 25 end up at the external borders of society without training, training or work, and they were very surprised that the government did not cancel its education cuts, even though studies clearly show that now is the last time to cancel in order for Finland to have a better future. In other words, the government does not listen to experts, does not care about investigations, nor does it take the feedback of the citizens. I really hate to say it, but keeping quiet about the truth doesn't do anyone any good. That is why this report by the Ombudsman for Children is extremely important. It analyses the failures of Finland’s child policy, as well as the failure of some of Finland’s top experts, including Matti Rimpelä, and see what needs to be done to make the future a better one. Yes, the activity report of this Ombudsman for Children should be compulsory for every Member of Parliament, but in particular for government ministers. I would like to raise one section of this commendable activity report, in particular, to be discussed, a section that is titled ‘The pace of pollution protection’. and lending:‘The number ofcustomers is likely to grow strongly in both open This has been led by a large number — Reductions made during this term of government. And now that the regional reform is coming to fruition,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u182	Mr President! Here, many colleagues have warmly supported the appeal of the Ombudsman for Children to establish these common objectives and also concrete indicators for child policy and to draw up a national strategy for child policy on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I myself attended the presentation of the report by the Ombudsman for Children at the House of Regulation, where an expert speech also raised the issue of this family policy, that we rarely have a child policy if we do not think about the child’s immediate community, which means that we need that family policy. Just as the Ombudsman for Children has said, for decision-making based on knowledge, policy transparency and continuity, the indicators defined by Parliament are essential. I also think it is right and legitimate for the Ombudsman for Children to comment on the fragmentation of child policy and also on the weakness or even absence of this assessment of child effects in the context of legislative proposals on children and families. This is where we've been debating a lot here in the Chamber. This is certainly also the reason why the cooperation of many actors is so poorly coordinated and because the welfare state is under-achieved in this policy sector. As far as the budget is concerned, the evaluation of these effects on children would probably be the most important, so that speaking for children would not be just a part of the speeches. I hope that the government will take note of this and carry out this type of assessment already in connection with the decisions on the spring spending limits. I hope that there will also be child impact assessments in the municipalities and then, possibly, in these future provinces, at least in the context of the distribution of money and the question of what each economic decision will mean. A very large proportion of these services needed by families with children are produced and decided upon today in the municipalities. Of course, if the plans of the government are implemented, there will be a greater role for the provinces in the future. Mr President! In Finland, it has been estimated that as many as 100,000 children live in low income households, and weakness is one of many aspects of life, such as health and education, and on the one hand moves from one generation to another. In the Parliament’s Children’s Group, we have considered that poverty in families with children and we have hoped that this topic would also be discussed here in Parliament in a topical debate, because many Finns are concerned about the well-being and livelihood of children and families. Well, during this period we have not been able to get to that subject in our own topical debate, but now that I have listened to colleagues' speeches here, it seems that this topic has also been wanted in this debate and has been mentioned, for example, in this area of freedom from charge in secondary education. It is, of course, a good thing — whether it takes place in its own debate or in the context of this other issue — that this issue should be raised. Human well-being, its foundation is built in childhood, and the conditions of childhood affect the health and well-being of life as a whole and, among other things, the working capacity of the future. Poverty often means that there is no alternative. In the case of a child and a young person, it often means that you cannot engage in or participate in leisure activities with your peers, and that feeling of lack of participation and externality and concern for the survival of your family are things that leave their mark on your child until you grow up. It must be possible to break the cycle of inheritance through the opportunities opened up by society and with strong support, and every child and young person must be given the opportunity to train and engage and believe in a better future. It is precisely this freedom of charge for secondary education that has been discussed here in a few speeches, and I personally hope that it will be possible to do so. When I, as the mother of a high school student, have looked at the frequency with which textbook manufacturers and learn materials manufacturers renew those books and materials, and the expiry times of their licenses are such that the first-grader of a high school should already know whether or not to write a subject and consider what length of license to take, in my opinion, for this kind of money that is currently visible on that side of secondary textbooks, we need to get a stop. I do not think it is desirable that we, together here in the Chamber, promise that we, as a society, will guarantee secondary education and then give a free shot to the authors of textbooks who will certainly benefit from this. In other words, there must be a system to guarantee every child and young person the opportunity to train, but on the other hand, I cannot see as good as this current cashing procedure that is going on. The same applies to the aspect of vocational education and training. There are very many different expensive tools that students have to buy for themselves, and in the same way this money mentality is visible there too. Mr President! The welfare of children and young people and families is also greatly influenced by how we talk about these things in society: do we always emphasize the problems and difficulties and challenges of talking about children and young people, respect motherhood and fatherhood, and give way to parental care and love for our own child? These attitudes do matter. When we deal, for example, with these family leave issues, will children then be some kind of equality problem or a sad break in the working life that is detrimental to the economy, or could we think in such a way that children are citizens as adults are? I claim that we have quite a lot to fix in these discussions at the attitude level in Finland. There has also been much talk here about this poor birth rate, the worryingly weak birth rate. Yes, we must make it our strategic goal to have a child-friendly society and to spend time and money and space to achieve these goals when they are discussed. Let us hope, for example, that in the future this reform of family leave will not be attempted in such a way that no additional euro will be put into it, but in such a way that there will be genuine willingness to increase the well-being of families. The Christian Democrats believe that we need that reform of family leave, but it must be done in such a way that flexibility and support and freedom of choice for the everyday lives of families are increased and not reduced. Mr President! The lack of child policy and the exclusion of children in society have a clear price to measure in the national economy. In 2010, the Ministry of Finance estimated that an increase of 0.5% in fertility would reduce the sustainability gap by 1 percentage point, i.e. by EUR 2 billion. However, unfortunately, the trend has been the opposite, i.e. the fertility rate has fallen in ten years from 2.5 children to 1.5 children per woman. The number of children born in Finland’s 100th anniversary year fell to record, and, as was heard yesterday, the new record has indeed been broken. Let us hope that this type of record will no longer be broken in the future. We are in a situation where the demographic bias is worsening and, as a result, the sustainability gap is worsening. Financial contributions to the benefits of these families with children and young people are also worth looking at from this point of view, and if we can use various measures to increase the desire of young adults to start a family and, on the other hand, the confidence of the family in the future, it is also worth the effort in economic terms. Support for families with children is the best growth policy. It can be said that then we are actually talking about the hard core of the economy. Too often we think that when we talk about family policies with children it's some kind of soft stuff and they use such soft adjectives when they talk about it, but hey, this is the hard core of the national economy. If we do not get this thing right, we will not be able to get the sustainability gap right, and this is really the kind of thing that should be at the heart of all possible economic discussions, the kind of family policy we are doing in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u183	Mr President! It is a pleasure and I must thank the Ombudsman for this report. It is said that a good report now on recent years but gives a brilliant picture of 1945, what has happened, how different government programs during different periods and different parties in them have carried out children's affairs. I was delighted with the latest section of the book that looked through the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and there all the articles and then assessed which of them have come true here in Finland. This whole package has never happened to my own hands before, and that's why it's been great. The idea behind today's debate seems to be that we need our own child policy or child strategy in this Finnish country. It even sounds funny and quite shocking that we have had substance abuse programmes and substance abuse strategies that have been decided in this Parliament, and sometimes children have been ignored, but there has been no actual strategy to discuss children and child policy. Of course, children's affairs relate to so many different sectors. When we talk about early childhood education or when we talk about engaging in or talking about living or making a living, we also have children's points for all of these, and then the second point about which I have been pleased and delighted this evening is that the assessment of the impact of children is to be included in all these legislative proposals and in the budget. I know that some administrators feel that it is hard and hard for them to demand and demand the effects of equality, the assessment of men and women if there is a government budget, or an assessment of the impact of children, but they are the only ways in which these things can be seen if they can be verified there — and of course they have improved how they have moved forward. That's also why I was happy to see this. Then Finland joined and finally finally managed to sign the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1979 under the Second Additional Protocol. It is always good to remind ourselves that although, as has been said today, 80% of children are very well and things are in order, Finland has also received comments. I remember a time when we have received specific comments on the use of drugs for children, for example, where Finland was very different from other countries, and on domestic violence, where Finland unfortunately also differs from other countries. In other words, the UN articles on children's rights and what Finland has committed itself to have not been implemented, because the children have not been much involved in them. We have the slogan “From well-being state to the reform of child policy. For the benefit of children and society as a whole’, which can be read from this book,is a very good summary. On the other hand, when we have discussed in this Chamber how the economy is going for the better and we have good opportunities and in Finland, in the course of 100 years of history, we have been in a much weaker economic situation and yet there has been a great deal of investment in children, the analysis carried out by the SOSTE organisation two weeks ago, which stated that last year's decisions are undermining the financial position of families with children. How can it be that, even if the economy is growing, we do not invest in families with children or students who, in addition to the unemployed and pensioners, were others who have fallen short of this and who have actually lost their livelihoods? That is why, of course, this should be changed. We have made our own proposals, and they have been discussed here during Christmas and there have been many points raised here this evening. The limitation of the right to day care should not have been made, but subjective day care should still have been maintained in all children. It is certainly not always used by everyone, and I am sure it is not necessary, but that everyone has had the opportunity to do so, and that is something that is shared by all the educational professionals. Group sizes in early childhood education should not have been raised, because it is already known that when groups are too large, the concentration of children and the attention they need to teach and do all the tasks is not enough when there are too many children there. Regrettably, the reform of family leave fell in which parents would have more evenly shared responsibility for raising children. As regards the extension of compulsory education, Mr Essayah has just used the example of high school books, which many families have even had to reduce or reconsider. Just as they say sometimes — I have never been to high school myself — families have sometimes had to assess whether children can be put into high school because it is so expensive, so now they already have to do the same for high school books. And it is not quite cheap to have vocational training either, because all the equipment and equipment is quite an expense there, in addition to books. As far as child protection is concerned, there is a need to discuss and improve the level of child protection, and in particular its preventive action. So we have methods of taking home services and early intervention, and we have good examples, even from Imatra and elsewhere, which could be exported to different parts of Finland. Then, lastly, this opportunity to engage. It is something of a fine phrase, as this government has written on its program, that all children should have the opportunity to engage. But when you see what that means in practice, the division is that the state shares, which go from this state to the municipalities and which seem to it, are one part that can be discussed a lot. The decisions made by municipalities are truly significant in terms of how many open sports facilities, places to engage in culture, youth centres, for example, are available without having your own wealth or your own wallet. And, of course, the role of households in the fact that the more people have jobs, secure livelihoods and so forth, it also improves the opportunities for children to engage in hobbies. That is why it is sad that, among other things, child impact assessments have not been made at the point where the government parties took through an active model where income is weakened and people are driven to the income support hatch, as the CEO of Kela is now surprised, although it was already available on the government's proposal, or in the case of a competitiveness agreement, where, in terms of cutting the holiday money for people on low incomes, reports suggest that during the past summer, there were many holiday trips with children, when the cut-off of the holiday money, 30 per cent, suddenly became a reality. These were probably not thought of at that point, because hardly such decisions would have been made if those children had been thought of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u184	Mr President! I don't think you'll ever be ready for being a parent. A year and a half ago, the worry of a newborn child filled my every minute and second. It ran right over me, covering everything else. It felt like physical weight on your shoulders. It followed me to the shower, the store, and the dreams. And no matter how rational he tried to explain it to himself, emotion gave no room for reason. I have been talking for years about the genius of our maternity clinic system like other decision-makers, but only now do I understand how crucial it can be for the future of a child to be supported and helped by parents there. It is also important to monitor the child’s weight development, but just as important for the child’s well-being it is to ask the parent: ‘ How are you doing? As my child grew up, my confidence in myself was also strengthened as a parent. The settling of anxiety again gave me room to look around, to other families with children. How on earth do families whose daily lives are overshadowed by parental illness, financial concerns, unemployment, or the lack of local networks? In the midst of unemployment, how can a parent still have the resources to make sure that a child who is in early childhood education has the same starting point for a full - time child? How an outsider and uninvolved child can feel himself in early childhood — and still be tempted because of it. In our world of choice, these are not family choices. They are the choices that others make for them. They are choices that affect children. They are the choices made or left to us by our decision-makers. As parents, we take responsibility for the welfare of our own child, but as decision-makers, we must now take collective responsibility for all the children of our country. Mr President! Today in this Chamber is the first report to the Parliament of the Ombudsman for Children. We should stop with this book. Firstly, we must thank the Ombudsman for Children and all those involved in the preparation of the report for this extensive information package. At the same time, we must also look in the mirror. Parliament cannot boast that the effects of decisions on children are laudably taken into account when making decisions. Our concerns about the inequality of children and the lack of participation of young people are not reflected in the decision-making process that permeates all policy areas. The actions themselves are too often lacking. Finland should therefore start developing a national strategy on the rights of children, taking into account the situation of all children and the rights under UN conventions. The strategy must be carried out as a parliamentary work committed to by all the parliamentary parties. The effectiveness of the longer-term strategy is better than the individual records of government programmes, which, of course, are also needed. Actually, the strategy should change our way of thinking. A child is not just one aspect on the checklist, but a way of thinking and perceiving the world. There is therefore a need for greater coherence and comprehensiveness in decision-making in order to make children a more essential part of decision-making processes. Hard economic policy is to invest in children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u185	Mr President! ‘Thetime of well-being in “We are not sufficiently From this point of The message from the Child Affairs Commissioner is very serious. We are dangerously slipping back into history at a time when children’s future prospects were determined by their parents ’ wealth. Mr President! I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his excellent report. I very much hope that it will give us all serious consideration to how we will ensure a good childhood and a strong future for each and every child. Important issues have been raised in previous speeches, such as concerns about the fragmentation of services, the increase in the number of clients in child protection, the increase in the poverty of families with children, the deterioration of the quality of early childhood education and the limitation of the right to early childhood education. I myself would like to highlight a high-quality and equal comprehensive school. Each child must be able to take part in the education and receive the necessary life skills. If a child needs special support for schooling, he or she is entitled to it. In today's Finland, equality in education is at stake. Education has been cut too much, and the resources are no longer sufficient to ensure equal training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u188	Mr President! The report of the Ombudsman for Children to Parliament in 2018 is certainly a wonderful piece of reading and a really great piece of printing. But before I get to the point, let me say a few things that the demars themselves raised in their own speeches, twisting the information that the centre would sometimes have objected to the arrival of comprehensive school in Finland. On the contrary, the center was the most enthusiastic supporter. Johannes Virolainen, president of the centre of that time, was certainly the biggest fan of this idea, and he was one of the people who drove a small city like Joensuu University, which has since become the University of Eastern Finland. Without the determination of Johannes Estonian, we would never have had that university in Joensuu. Demarithan was then opposed to the university coming to Joensuu, but we all know how the facts are, so that it is worth sticking to the truth in political speeches. I think that's the wisest thing for all of us. The second thing to do then: Mr Tölli has just said, and we have discussed this issue with him many times, that when primary schools were in this country, illiteracy was not a problem. All the students who left school could read — not today. I'm sure that's not because the policies have gone a little wrong. Society has changed so enormously that things that are irrelevant to children have become important and that learning has become a secondary issue and, among other things, respect for another person is no longer a virtue. That, on the other hand, is a longer story, which in this broken society is a huge problem when you no longer know your father and you no longer know your mother. There may be two mothers but no fathers and then more in the same pattern: then raise children with real success. But then, more deeply: The most important thing for a child’s life is his own home, a balanced home, where his father and mother are, going now when he really doesn’t know what that family is anymore. There is a situation in some households that is like buying and selling: then raise children calmly and happily. A child needs security. Love and borders that child needs and not any great declarations from the demars or a huge number of officials. A child needs a home, not anything else, a safe home where parents love the child, love and give him boundaries to live in. A child will certainly need that family around him for a long time to come. And the old folk wisdom says that when a child is little, he treads the mother's arms, when he grows up, his heart. This, when we representatives remember, is what the basic truths are. They are not ignored by party programs or anything else. Here Krista Mikkonen, the chairman of the Green Parliamentary Group, listed a huge number of problems that have been encountered, but I can say that when there were problems in the '70s or '60s — it is true that there were — then the school worked and in any case education was given and good manners were honoured. I would hope that when history is quoted, it will not be distorted. In Finland today, at least, the problems that exist are much more serious and often and very, very often related to the well-being of families, whether it is an economic opportunity to raise children, giving the child the opportunity to have good hobbies, a good circle of friends and, above all, the normal life that is currently considered normal in Finland. This constant criticism of the fact that hugely bad decisions have been taken now under this government is partly true, but the economy had to be put in order. Does anyone in the opposition think that we would have continued with the last parliamentary term when we were knocking at the gates of the International Monetary Fund as a state of crisis like Greece? Mr Filatov knows very well that with a debt of EUR 20 billion per parliamentary term, if another EUR 20 billion had been taken into account during this period, it would have been the same fate as in Greece. It's a fact, for sure. Two of the three big international ratings had already shown the yellow card. I wouldn't dare, and at least my balls can't take that third look anymore. I hope that when you raise these issues and make your head spin at the moment that we could have done with the hilarious economy, let's say the scrapping system continues, forget it. I mean, even political talk has to make sense. What is important for a child’s life is that, first of all, when he is little, he gets good services in that home and family, then he has health clinic services in his own municipality, then he has a good primary school, where there are good teachers, good friends, then of course he needs a secondary school after that and then, of course, the community where he grows up. Old folk wisdom said that the village of children raised, and otherwise it was true. They taught to behave, taught to social life, and taught to respect another person. On this day, when you go to the railway station and listen for a while to the text you hear from the mouth of the young children there, these children should not be there, and the other thing is that the text you hear there makes such a shy country boy blush after the first minute. What's the problem? You want me to put an officer on it? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Yes, that child needs to be home at night when the last trains from the Helsinki railway station leave for that region. The place for that child will then be at home, not at the railway station. Neither the demars' officials nor the opposition's big protests will do anything to do that when that child is supposed to be at home. Central government finances are, of course, the foundation that creates the finances of municipalities, but look at what happened during the last parliamentary term. We had about 40 municipalities going to crisis municipal status. Now, if I remember correctly, the number is three municipalities. Even in my municipality, the economy is still such that even though there was to be negative financial statements and there were certain things that made provision for it, it still seems that the result is positive. If you don’t get more work for people, all such measures to blame money for the consequences won’t help at all in the long run, because you have to get to the causes. It is exactly the same when someone has pneumonia, and the medication given to endure its symptoms does nothing. The disease must be eradicated, as in this case, the disease that we have unfortunate families in this country must be eradicated. Officials and fine reports will do nothing if we do not get those people jobs and livelihoods. Then, if we continue to confuse ourselves with this present philosophy that there may be two mothers in the family, there is no information about the father, and the group changes in the house that no longer knows who the social services are, who the father really is or who the mother is, then there is no doubt that the little child is already in such a cycle that even a sober adult can't make any sense of it. I think it's a good idea to stick to these basics. The millennial traditions that mankind has taught us have not aged at all today. On the contrary, they are increasingly honoured. When a child grows up, it is important that he gets good exercise. We are beginning to have very, very many children who have symptoms of type 2 diabetes when they are young — the symptoms of type 2 diabetes in young children. Every kid wants to move. That's what I've seen from my own granddaughter. I think it's better to limit the speed of a little bit when you give me a chance to move. That is exactly how it is, and there is no need to doubt that it is. I hope that in this matter, when we think about the safe environment of a child, we will make a report and let some civil servants come, but if we forget about the basics, there will never be any money to replace this. The basics remain basic, they have been so for millennia. A child needs a happy home, a father and a mother and good love and limits to live. That's where it all starts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u189	Mr President! It is quite true what Mr Hoskonen said that a child needs a good home, but unfortunately the situation today is that not all children have a good home, and then society must ensure that these children also have good food for life. And it is quite true that if we compare the past decades, so much progress has been made, and that is great, it has been a great story for Finland. My concern is that we stick to this story. The comments made in this report should now be taken seriously and made sure that every child has good prospects for life and that every child receives sufficient support, including those who do not receive it from home. In that sense, I do not think that I now need to point a finger or accuse anyone; this is, of course, the result of a long-term policy, but now we need to get to the point of concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u190	Mr President! It is a pleasure to discuss the report of the Ombudsman for Children. In fact, last season we decided that this report will also come to Parliament, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. We then discussed these transfers of the Ombudsman for Equality and related reforms, and we considered that many other reports will come to us, but the report on child matters will not come to Parliament. That is when it came to the law, and that is why I personally am glad to be able to deal with this. It has often been quoted here that the serious message of the Ombudsman for Children is that the Finnish welfare state is underachieved in relation to children. That is quite well said because it reflects the fact that we have resources and we have legislation but we are not able to use them as well as we should. On the other hand, it also tells us that we have made decisions that affect the situation of children and families with children. And at the same time, when the society around us changes, especially working life, in such a way that it brings more challenge to families with children, we should consider how our service systems support families and not agree to them being weakened. Mr Hoskonen here talked a lot about the economy. By the way, I do not mind commenting on that speech, but I would like him to look at the tables of the Ministry of Finance of his own government on what has happened in the economy, and that is perhaps a better answer to his comments than I am going to analyse them. And there's another thing I want to say: It is also a matter of respect for different families. It cannot be that we are narrowing our own world view only in harmony with the family concept we have. If we want to appreciate children, we appreciate the parents of all children as well. The councilman asks whether we have the patience to invest enough money and energy in children, and that is a good question. More importantly, do we have the heart, the intelligence, the time and the ability to take good care of the children, and this question is also raised by the delegate in the report. The word “invest ”is the language of the economy, and perhaps it Good investment brings profits, but childhood has absolute value in itself, and every child has the right to good care. The child does not have to earn care, it belongs to him, and that is what we need to remember. Finland’s economic development is firmly dependent on what is happening on our human and social capital side, which is why investment in children is also the best investment from an economic point of view. When we have talked here about money, about money shortages, or about sustainability deficits, the biggest sustainability gap will be if we do not provide our children with good education and services that keep life aloof. Well, what's that about investing in childhood? This means, among other things, sufficient income and time for parents and the possibility of being with children, and society must ensure a good level of early childhood education and school for the child. I find it attractive that this report also approached Finnish politics through the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. By the way, this is being done in more municipalities today, and it is a good thing that it tells us what we are committed to. And if it is said that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child departs from the three-p policy — that is, commission, protection and participation — so little if you straightened out the bends, you could say in Finnish that the effort, the defence and the gang, the same three ps, because the effort would be to allocate sufficient resources to children and families with children. But it is not only about money but also about resources as a whole, and time must also be seen as a resource, especially if the balance between work and family, working life and care for children is assessed. Fathers and mothers in Finland are firmly attached to work, and work brings livelihood, but it also challenges family time together. It is very sad that the reform of family leave came across content conflicts and money shortages. It would have been needed to support a more equal parenthood. It was discussed whether the reform would have had an employment benefit. I personally believe that it would have had employment benefits, but it would have been a simple bonus, not an absolute value. That reform should have been made for children and for equality, and it should have been welcomed that it will also bring good results for employment. Finnish parents work a lot. Mothers and fathers work more often than children without children, this is quite remarkable. In 67 per cent of the families of two guardians, both parents are employed and 79 per cent of parents of school age. These are honest, respectable figures. In Finland, the employment rate of mothers is also higher than that of women on average in the EU countries. And where we differ: We have a lot of full-time work, which means that those hours are also bigger than in many other countries. In addition, over one third of mothers worked overtime weekly and nearly half of fathers, i.e. parents of young children, and often that overtime is also done at home after working hours. Well, if we look at what has happened in working life, then women work part-time much less than in the EU countries, but we have increased fragmented working hours. And if we were to consider when the previous speech said that the children’s place would be at home at night when the trains left, and not in the world, you could say that yes, the parents of those young children would also be there at the time. If we accept that working life can become fragmented and, as it were, take over the whole of life — I am one of those who insists on working for more people to have jobs and even more jobs, but some sense must also be in the family’s eyes — if our service system does not respond to the change in working life, then we have no reason to wonder why children and young people are excluded. In that sense, parenthood, work and families are linked to how Finland is doing. Even now, these zero agreements that we currently have, or the fact that part-time work has an obligation to accept additional work: we have such obligations, and we think that people must also adapt to this kind of work, but at the same time we are not prepared to invest in our service system so that people can also survive as parents of young children in such work. And, for example, this active labour market model, which has now been introduced: It concerns 45,000 older people who are unemployed, but at the same time there is no safety at all for the child to be taken into care. Unemployment benefit partly leaves if you are unable to do a job or participate in active activities, but at the same time we do not offer the child access to care. And that is why subjective day care is extremely important. From the point of view of working life, one thing that makes you think a lot about this report is that parents tell you how work eats their family time, and people feel that they do not have enough time for their homes or for their children. But while at the same time that time has decreased, the experience of too little time has decreased. So it is worth asking what kind of relationship we have with work and children: have we, as it were, already accepted that this work may take up children’s time in such a way that it affects children’s lives? I don't know if you understood what I was trying to say, because this is a complex equation, but it's what I left to think about when I read that report, what caused this change. I hope that in the committee consultation we will have more answers, because if we get the impression that the time we spend with children can only decrease and decrease when working time becomes more demanding and demanding and demanding, then this circle is quite worrying. Perhaps from this point of view of working life there is much more I would like to say about this report, but time is already full. I would perhaps just like to say that defence in this policy is linked to our defending the rights of the child to special protection and care, because children need adults to protect themselves and defend their adequate services. However, childhood is a live broadcast, it does not expect the better times of central government finances, and if that childhood is not treated, neither will the better times of central government finances. That's the biggest sustainability gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u191	Mr President! This first report from the Ombudsman for Children to Parliament gives a very broad overview of the position of children in Finland and the long-term development of family policy and also provides good perspectives for future development guidelines. In the introduction to his report, Mr Kurttila, the Ombudsman for Children, calls on Parliament and the Government to develop a comprehensive strategy for child policy. This strategy for child affairs would, at best, extend over several parliamentary periods, thus making political decision-making on children and families more predictable than the current short-term and short-sighted policy. It is very easy to agree with this view of the Ombudsman for Children. Mr President! Councilman Kurttila also appeals to the importance of child impact assessment when preparing draft laws. It is a matter that the opposition has backed over and over again from the government, but unfortunately the government has not taken the advice of the opposition. I hope that the point made by the Commissioner for Children in his post will eventually wake up the Sipilä Government. Nor do I believe that there are any child-prohibited MPs in this Parliament, but yet some decisions taken here may be detrimental to the welfare of children, even because not all the facts are known at the time of the decision. Mr President! Mr Hoskonen has just stressed, quite rightly, the importance of home to the child. On the other hand, representatives Maijala and Essayah drew attention to the fact that the birth rate of Finns is at its lowest in a year and a half. For its part, it shows that the recent child and family policy has not been very encouraging, and it is now up to the government to make a change of direction on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u192	Mr President! We have an important debate on the report by the Ombudsman for Children. We have had a long evening here on child policy, but I think we should talk even more about family policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u195	Mr President! Representative Mr Tölli made one of the best speeches today, and I would like to see his message spread more widely now about what he has made very clear. Above all, what I appreciated in his speech was that there is security, family security, faith that children can live in peace, so that there is no need to be afraid of divorce, no need to fear being left alone. Tölli also spoke very well about where we have faith in tomorrow, faith in the future, faith in life, and the work situation is also uncertain in many places. These are things that we should really think about more now. And he brought up this family policy. Today, very little has been said about family policy, only about children, but it is not possible to separate a parent from a family, because the family is a vast whole. There was a time when this child benefit came, like a representative. Tölli brought it up, but would it be time for us to find a similar wake-up call, some big action, a package that would actually change the situation of families so that families would dare to have children? Yes, it takes a sense of security and confidence to make a child to endure the union. It is a terrible situation for parents to be afraid of staying home alone with more than one child. You can do it with one or maybe two, but how do you do it if there's more than one kid in it? Yes, the starting point must be to make the family endure. If children are forced to see and experience a certain amount of strife, it is better to learn how to settle things at home than to bury them and then easily go into another situation. Krista Mikkonen commendably brought up the issues of the Sámi language. The language issue is one of the essential elements in enabling children to learn their native language, the language of their family. It would therefore be important to further expand the language base activity. Last autumn, we had more than one new language nest now running in the Sámi language, but more and more of them would be needed in the future, because, fortunately, today we are dared to speak the Sámi language again and study it. Much must now be invested in teaching the Sámi language itself, as 70% of Sámi people already live outside the Sámi region and only in the Sámi region are entitled to training the Sámi language so that it can be funded by the State. For example, we should find a couple of million dollars so that the SAKK, the Sámi Region Education Centre, can directly teach children through the Internet through its basic education right throughout Finland, so that this matter is not the responsibility of the municipalities, but, for example, it could be done directly from the SAKK in order to allow children to study its own language. Finally, I would like to raise this cultural issue. When today was a discussion initiative on culture and the importance of culture, it is very important for children to learn their own culture. Culture is not always about all the finer things and all the expensive operas and other things, but about simple, everyday things. They are very close, whether they are moving, singing or other similar things. Let's get some of those experiences for the kids. But let us also remember that the most important thing for children is proximity. The intimacy is not that the cell phone is operated and done, but that the intimacy is that we are actually present and not just in the vicinity of the cell phone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u196	Mr President! There is clearly pressure in this debate and on the subject, even on a more general family policy debate, and here there are also certain dividing lines that exist here ideologically. Personally, I would like to point out this view of traditional family value, which I myself am flagging for. In other words, the traditional nuclear family model is not always possible for various reasons, but society should strive for it and make decisions that promote it. These recent solutions have not always been like that. Many times this debate goes to these sayings and beliefs, such as early childhood education or family leave reform. In this debate, it is as if the forest disappears from the trees and things are made too complicated. This birth rate is a serious issue, its inadequacy specifically, and society is forced to do something about it, but the subject is quite traumatic and problematic. It is illustrated by the fact that when a party leader used the term ‘birth vows’, the following national relief. What could cause such a thing? I believe that this is above all a matter of attitude. Modern self-centredness, me first attitude, is likely to cause this problem. It is not so much a question of financial resources, of any support, of early childhood education or of education. In absolute terms, birth rates are highest in poor countries where nothing is said about such early childhood education. One aspect of this in our society is the increase in the average age of first birthers towards middle age. When children reach 40 years of age, it is bound to lead to low birth rates for biological reasons. How, then, has this come about and what is causing this is the question on which society should find answers. Why do young adults not start a family? In my own view, it is at least a question of the vagueness of employment relationships, their duration, the cost of living, and so on, a matter of very practical life that cannot be resolved with these rhetorics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u197	Mr President! This report by the Ombudsman for Children to Parliament 2018 seems to me to be a very broad overview not only of the past and history, but also of a rather forward-looking report. The fact that this is a few hundred pages long all in all also tells us about the scale. But when you look at this, you can see that excellent speeches have been made here on this subject, for example by representatives of Hoskonen and Tölli and Maijala and so on. Even when I was reading this, I was thinking more about how we can support those families best in their everyday lives. For example, what stopped was the statistics on page 70, which says that in 15 years our children’s custody has doubled and 18000 children have been placed outside the home. These are quite hard figures and tell us that the everyday life is not always what is hoped for or what we decision-makers would like. As a result, the welfare of children, as has been well stated here before, is much involved in the well-being of its family. It is good to remember when it comes to the services of families with children and different kinds of support and coping, that each parent’s everyday life is someone’s childhood, a fleeting moment, and that is why we decision-makers should pay attention to this. At the outset, we are taking a rather strong stance on the underachievement of the welfare state in the area of child policy by the Ombudsman for Children, one might say. I understand this idea behind it, but it inevitably makes me wonder that it is not the most important thing to forget that when we talk about the welfare of children it is not a welfare society,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u198	Madam President! Although I have already spoken here, I believe that this issue is so central and important, as many of these last speeches have pointed out, that we are talking about the deep core of the national economy when it comes to family policies and, in the end, how to deal with dependency and sustainability deficits. When I followed the discussion that was taking place around that family leave reform, and it really started with the accumulation of pensions and the equality of working life and who knows what other arguments for transport, someone had well tweeted that it is not the pension accumulation that will visit you at the retirement home. It is good to bear this in mind when we take the floor around the topic. Representative Mr Tölli also made a very good speech and indeed underlined that, in this report by the Ombudsman for Children, too, there is a great deal of talk about the need for child policy, but it is indeed a policy for families with children, which is essential when considering how best to take forward the child's life and influence it. According to a study published two years ago by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, THL, nine out of ten children are well. It is important to remember that we have, of course, raised these challenges here today, above all in these speeches. When viewed historically, children, on average, are better off than ever before and experience less insecurity and better comfort in school, and the use of young drugs has decreased. But then, at the same time, one in ten are without a close friend, one in five young girls are experiencing depression and there has also been an increase in youth self-destruction and the number of child protection reports has risen, as has been pointed out here in the speeches, so that childhood can be very unhappy and difficult for some. The key question for all is how to strengthen and support the well-being of children and young people more and more. Indeed, society cannot care, care, and love in the same way as parents, families, and other people close to it. The authority can never replace the family. That is what has been said here today from many people's mouths. That is why it is first and foremost up to society to strengthen and support these communities so that they, in turn, can support and support the child and young people. Of course, there are times when society has to take on the role of its replacement community. Then we will know that the damage that has already been done in the nearby community. Of course, the most humane and economical thing would be to provide adequate support for the family at an early stage in order to be able to support and support the child through childhood to the point of adulthood. The vital importance of families and local communities is even obvious in each’s own life history. However, in the public debate, it seems that the importance of this is often left behind and perhaps forgotten and highlighted by the individuality and, as in this debate, by these administrative paths and by the systems of society. But, indeed, family policy is primarily about that family and supporting its educational work, and always the welfare of children and young people is ultimately about that family and community welfare. As was pointed out here in the speeches: how can these child-supporting relationships be improved in Finland for the future, and how can they be more supported? As has already been said here, of course, it would be best if the child’s close relations were maintained and, for example, divorce could be avoided, but unfortunately this is not always the case. Before Christmas, this proposal came from the Ministry of Justice's working group on legislation on child custody and rights of access and its reform. It was handed over to the Attorney General at the time. There were a lot of important openings in the report of the working group which, for example, would take greater account of the possibility of supporting the child, not only of parents, but also of other people close to him, in the legislation itself and in those decisions, because it is often the case that, in divorce, for example, these grandparents may become even closer. Then, on the other hand, it is known from living life that in addition to alienating such things, which may target another parent, grandparents may also be excluded from the child’s sphere of life. For example, in this job as a Member of Parliament, I have had quite adversarial contacts from grandparents who have told me about these situations, that there has been no more opportunity to meet a grandchild and how it has felt on their side and how it must have felt on that side of the child. For example, the report of the Ministry of Justice's working party pointed out that a provision of this kind was proposed in the law, according to which that right of access could also be established in a legally binding way between the child and a person particularly close to him. It refers to Article 8 of the ECHR’s obligation to protect family life and to the European Court of Human Rights’ ruling practices. In my opinion, it is important that such proposals should also proceed, even though the report of the working group has limited the definition of a person who is particularly close to it, so that it is a relationship comparable to this kind of parenting relationship. But in the very life that lives where these grandparents and their role in the family can be of crucial importance, I would be delighted if it could be extended and thought that grandparents or foster parents living in the same household, or stepparents, or stepparents, for example, could also be such close parents. Mr President! There has been a very good and valuable debate around this report. I hope that there will be no unnecessary politicised tone for this in the sense that, if we are to talk about this issue of fertility, it must be admitted that it is rather longer-term and more government work than has been done in this period. Although I say this as a representative of the opposition, it is now of course important to consider how to proceed from now on. If we have come to the point of being in the lowest birth rates in history, then we have a shared responsibility to start thinking about what kind of family policy we are doing here in Finland, that we can increase the birth rate, and that, above all, young families will feel that they dare and want to go on bringing their own children and taking them on the path of life. Let us hope that we can bring about such a turning point together and that there will be such consensus and joint action on this subject beyond the boundaries of government and opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u199	Madam President! I very much welcome this new practice that the Ombudsman for Children brings a report on his activities and on the current themes of child and family policy here also for discussion in Parliament and for the protection of the great Chamber of Parliament. Madam Speaker! During this day and evening, very good speeches have been made and a very wide-ranging debate has taken place. It has seemed to me that this Ombudsman for Children, who is quite a recent actor in Finland – now another person in history – has become a rather significant social debater in Finland and a rather significant opinion leader. He has a lot of publicity in various types of matters involving children and forms a line of action. There have been very fine, touching and memorable speeches this evening, but I would now like to raise Mr Töll's speech a short time ago, which admittedly struck. There was a lot of things and values that I feel good and right about myself. For such a young man in his 30 ’ s, who has no other children yet but three godsends, it seemed very good and reasonable. This is the direction we need to move in. I would like to stress, President, that it is important for a child to grow up that the whole village is raised. That whole village grew up was once there in the Overland on Sippolanrinte, where I was able to grow up. President! I would also like to highlight the role of fathers. Every once in a while, it feels as if as a man, we have taken the little one out of the child’s life the meaning of the father. That father still matters. Absolutely we must be better able to support families with children, couples, to keep families together and to take care of children. Mr President! Yes, it should be noted that when children are treated, families are treated, so money must not be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u200	Madam President! A few things were not said in the previous speech. The second is that when I talked about what is a safe environment for a child to grow, it certainly is a home, and now that we are planning a variety of maneuvers, this fine book, this report or rather a report, which is a sort of report on how families with children today are doing, is a good source of where we really are going. But behind all the figures, all the wisdom, the work of many officials, all of it, the basic truth must be that the family must be supported. Families are the basic cell that keeps this society up. All the other options around the world that have been tried have been worse, I'm sure. The second point is that when the reform of the family leave is planned — that seems to be the case when it was hot in this house, I understand that everyone agrees that it must be done — the right things must then be agreed upon. My point of view is that within the family society should not decide when to have a mother or father on family leave to take care of a small child. Of course, the biological fact is that when that child is born into this world and the mother is breast-feeding — but it is still a bit of the truth that the mother is breast-feeding a small child — that connection should not be interrupted by the act of the legislator, under no circumstances. By far the best nurse of that little child is always the mother. Love between a mother and a child is not overturned by any love, nothing. It's so warm and so altruistic, so real, so pure. Let the politicians not be confused. Let the family decide among themselves what is best for them. I have always been a little appalled about this model, in which society decides for families what to do. There are experiments on them, for example, beyond the eastern border to a large extent, but I would argue that they have been reasonably unsuccessful. As we keep this in mind and acknowledge the facts of nature, we can easily reach the right decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u201	Madam President! If we look at the way we, as a society, are able to support the fact that every child has a safe everyday life, a good chance of growing up in this society, then of course the family has a key role to play in it, but what is essential is that society is able to support families in this. Let me raise a few things, first with regard to day care. At the moment, it is possible, and it is good to see, a heated debate on the salaries of teachers in the day care centre, about their inadequate level. We need educated, skilled daycare teachers, and yes, especially in the capital region, in Helsinki, the level of pay for the teachers in the day care centre is such that it is difficult to manage. Public statements have been made that there is a cartel between municipalities in the capital region, that it has been agreed that wages do not exceed a certain level. At least we have been very strongly denied that there is no such thing, and it may be true, but there are other mechanisms that will guide this. They are the fact that today municipalities, such as the largest municipalities, are all aiming for an average of the costs of the six largest municipalities, and when they are created such models, they are in a way taking the same direction without some agreements on this. Well, one must of course be raised in relation to these salaries. After all, not only kindergarten teachers but low-paid are those who work in the mainstream of the public sector, whether they are local nurses, nurses, teachers, or, if we are talking about day-care centres, children’s nurses who are also engaged in equally important work, besides kindergarten teachers. The feedback that has come directly to me from this kiky agreement, from cutting holiday money, has been rather harsh and rightly so. These people are a low-income group, do extremely important work, and they do have that feeling of cutting holiday money. When Mr Vehkaperä asked what the left in Helsinki has done for the salaries of kindergarten teachers earlier in the debate, I can tell you that I myself proposed in the Council that, with local agreement — we in the Left are in favour of local agreement when it is not dictated by anyone but a collective agreement — these holiday allowances cuts should have been replaced by wage increases. After all, there are no fewer than two delegates from the centre in Helsinki, unfortunately neither of them supported this proposal, and in fact the third is the honorary chairman, Paavo Väyrynen, and when he is included, none of them unfortunately supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u206	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u207	Mr President! The proposal to amend the provisions of the parish elections must be supported. It is good that all general government elections are brought to the same level in terms of accessibility rules. I have heard some of the discussions that have been going on among the parishioners in Lapland, for example, since I am a church councillor myself. It has been difficult for the candidates in the congregation elections to act on the election board. They sit at the election site and, for example, in local shopping centres as officials and, at the same time, as self-advertisers, when they are also candidates for the same elections. One of the church councillors in Lapland once told me that even a small competition could have arisen as a result of the fact that the members of the electoral commission are generally successful in congregational elections. Congregational representatives do unscrupulous work, often with very little compensation. There are no irregularities in the calculation of the votes themselves, but it is good that this is a matter of general practice in terms of election delivery.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u208	Madam President! After all, this amendment to the Church Act will now harmonise the regulation of the electoral committees of the ecclesiastical elections in the same way as it is in the general elections. Of course, there are grounds for this from the point of view of the external credibility of the elections and, as it were, from the point of view of the integrity, which Mrs Maijala spoke very well about. I was also dealing with this in the Committee on Administrative Affairs and, of course, we had a debate there that, when this change took place earlier in this parliamentary term in other elections, in general elections, as if, you could say, in secular elections, so already in municipal elections last year, 2017, there was a problem that when political participation and party membership were not really the biggest and most popular hobby in Finland, which is unfortunate, but it is a reality, some parties have had challenges sometimes to find unimpededed persons on electoral boards. Of course, I personally believe that the most important thing is for the electoral committees to be brought together and for all parties to be represented. That this is not a problem-free question. For example, I have already received criticism from some municipal officials that why did you set such a restriction on the eligibility of electoral committees, but perhaps this time now requires such changes. That is why, in our report in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, we stated that in smaller congregations attention must be paid to the choices made by the alternates, that there should then be sufficient unhindered electoral committees, which then also represent all those groups which put candidates to the elections on a sufficiently broad and proportional basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u209	Madam President! Just as Mr Kurvinen here would draw attention to the fact that although it is very important for you that these obstacle situations are assessed in exactly the same way as in the other elections, last spring’s municipal elections were such a test effort that small municipalities still had to reflect on the people who were able to come to those electoral boards. And then, indeed, the calculation situations — yes, it was suspected that some of the delays in the calculations that occurred then last spring — were partly due to the fact that there were a lot of completely new people who had never been involved in these calculations before, and then, in part, to the unaccustomed nature of those calculations had to be repeated in some localities. Of course, they always do the checks anyway, but there was such an incompetence. Of course, this may sound very strange in one of the capital regions, but we have small electoral districts, small municipalities, where there really is a relationship between people in such a way that we really have to ask ourselves who is related to and whether we can participate in these electoral committees. Of course, as far as I am concerned, and there is always a way here that the proposals relating to church law will then be accepted and will not be amended, but this is, of course, an important change in terms of harmonising this practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u210	Madam President! This issue of eligibility for election boards, which was brought to the municipal side earlier and now also brought to the parishes, has been well covered. On these occasions, Mr Essayah explained that it has been difficult to find election officials, and at least according to the message I received, it has been quite a common challenge. It is not, of course, good that we are gradually going in the direction of actually hiring these elements or finding ways of finding different actors there, but it is essential that there should also be a great deal of representation, in fact according to the regulations, of different political views. Then there could be trouble. Now that Mr Kurvinen is here, who has been dealing with this legislation in Parliament, is this the same nonsense as it is on the municipal side, that if the spouse is a candidate, it cannot be involved even if the spouse is a candidate in another municipality. At least the municipal legislation doesn't know it. In other words, if you think that a man would be a candidate in Espoo and become a trustee in another municipality, it does not give you a chance. In fact, I don't think that's often the case for a couple, but it might be the case for a child. In other words, if the father works in Riihimäki and the child lives in Oulu and runs in Oulu, his father is not eligible to act as an election officer in Riihimäki. It's a very unreasonable and unusual situation. I hope that you have dealt with this so carefully in committee that you have registered that it applies only to the same congregation or municipality. That, in my opinion, is what it has been trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u211	Madam President! Mr Heinonen raised a very important issue of interpretation, and I admit quite frankly that this was not dealt with in the expert consultation and it did not come up. And the message was that we create the same regulation as is on the municipal side in general elections, and this of course could create the impression that when there are identical good things, so also identical fools are taken here. But, of course, once I have sat down in law school, these discussions should also have some meaning in interpreting the law, so that we can now say — when we are always talking about the will of the legislator in legal matters — that with Mrs Heinonen at least we legislators want this not to be interpreted in this way. But if there are problems of interpretation of this kind, then we in this House must intervene in this matter, both in the municipal elections and then in the parish elections. It's a very strange interpretation of life. The most important thing for me on these electoral committees — whether it be the congregations or the municipalities — is that there are representatives from different parties counting these votes. It's a huge value, really. Last year I was the chairman of the parliamentary monitoring group for this online vote, and we found that one of the huge strengths of the Finnish system is that we have a brother there who supervises the brother and sister. Together you count those votes, the tickets are still there, the checkup can be done many times, and it actually creates reliability and credibility for our democracy. That is what I would like to say when, in the autumn, the church elections are, after all, more progressive than this secular dogma of Luther, that the 16-year-olds will be able to vote there, and they will otherwise exercise their right to vote quite vigorously. I can also say to Mrs Heinos that I was vice-chairman of the Electoral Commission of Kauhava in the last parish election, and there were many 16 and 17-year-olds there to vote. Let's hope we get it to the municipal halls soon, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u212	Madam President! Again, I draw attention to the same point as Mr Kurvinen. I recall that this change originally left the European Anti-Corruption Commission, which examined the Finnish electoral legislation specifically on the secular part of the elections and stated that, when we do not have this type of obstacle rule, this could be a problem — forgetting, in this emphasis, that we really all political parties are represented there, so that this type of control is precisely this type of control, that, together, when one of those votes is counted, the other is watching each other. In that sense, I do not know whether it was even a little rash, that we went so far as to make the accessibility provisions so strict on the basis of the recommendation which came out of it, and then we are still in this kind of strange situation, which Mr Heinonen raised here. It had not even occurred to me that this could have been interpreted in this way, and obviously this is the way it has been interpreted at the time of the elections, that even the person living in a different municipality has been indisposed, or that matter has been left to be considered there on the ground. But perhaps sometimes, when these foreign recommendations are issued, it would probably be good to have such a comprehensive national debate, firstly, whether this is really a problem in our electoral legislation, and then only then to make these changes. But in any case, we have now made a change to that aspect of electoral law, and so the corresponding changes to this side of the church law will also follow that course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u213	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 3/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u214	Mr President! This is the report of the Social Insurance Institution’s delegates, Kela, on 2016 and the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I do not see the chairman of the committee here, he would have the opportunity to present it, but as Chairman of the Kela delegation, I would like to say here in the minutes that when I started as Chairman of the Kela delegation, I thought it appropriate that the supervision of the Social Insurance Institution should be clarified. In 80 years, the role of the Social Insurance Institution has changed very much. Government funding is already 70 per cent. According to the Constitution, the Parliament supervises Kela, it is supervised by 12 delegates, but it is absolutely necessary to assess whether this supervision is sufficient, for example, whether the National Audit Office should extend to Kela, and therefore, on the proposal, Kela's delegates have now set up a six-person survey team to examine Kela's supervisory status, role and internal jurisdiction relations. The mandate lasts for three months. My proposal also opened an opinion procedure, including an opinion from the Audit Committee on this report. I have considered that several of Kela's delegates are a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and that the work on the Kela report and the Kela issue remains very narrow. I hope there will be a debate on this. I have been consulted by the Committee on Audit and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and both committees considered it appropriate to continue this procedure of opinion and, above all, to support this work. It was also supported by the chairmen of parliamentary groups, which I visited to present. Finally, on this report, which is on the table here, Mr President, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that a parliamentary working party should be set up: once this six-man task force has submitted its proposal, the parliamentary working group would then see what legislative changes are considered appropriate in order to ensure the best possible protection of Kela's activities and its legislation is in line with today's needs and, in particular, monitoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u215	Madam President! It is indeed a pity that this report is now at this time of the evening in the debate and that there are no more people here from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to open up the issue on the ground. But Mr Sarkomaa has done a very good job in that he has gone ahead with this report on the supervision of Kela, and in this context, when these parliamentary groups were consulted, the Christian Democrats have pointed out that, after all, Kela, the Social Insurance Institution, is specifically subject to parliamentary control. If we look at the representativeness of Kela's delegates at the moment, there is no one there, for example, from our group, and a little like what is said about Yleisradio as a parliamentary radio, then it was stated when the legislation was amended that at least three parliamentary groups should have a representative there. In the case of Kela’s delegates, I hope that this will be taken into account in a similar way, because the Social Insurance Institution does care about the baby in the lives of Finnish citizens and residents of Finland. In view of these future challenges, which Kela faces, the transition to these common income registers and then, for example, this possible major reform of social security, Kela will play a very important role. In that sense, we must only hope that, with this reform of control, this parliamentary representativeness will also be taken into account there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u216	Madam Speaker! Mr Sarkomaa, the representative of Kela’s delegates, well explained these current memberships of the Social Insurance Institution. In fact, the fact that Kela also has an institution called Kela’s auditors, a small audit board-type body, was not mentioned in connection with the supervision and monitoring of Kela’s operations, and I believe that when I looked at the list of speakers, Mrs Majala, who is the vice-president of the auditors and, as it were, an elder of the lay inspectors or the top of the team, will tell more about our work. But there, too, we are aware and we have discussed this reform of the Kela administration, and it is certainly appropriate and important and wonderful that it should be taken forward on a parliamentary basis, with all parties and the whole parliament involved, when this is a very important institution of Parliament. Mr President! Over the decades, Kela has evolved from an insurance institution alone to a pension insurance institution to a social security champion and an absolutely central actor in Finland to take care of the disadvantaged people and take care of that so-called 'poor' issue, and Kela is now at the forefront of developing social security. Even this basic income experiment, which, after 30 years of discussion and yapping, was able to experiment, thanks to Sipilä's excellent board, was carried out by Kela. The old familiar Social Insurance Institution was an actor in it. Income support has now been transferred to the Social Insurance Institution. Well, that didn't go very well. There were pretty serious problems at the beginning. But then, that positive things are also brought up, not always just criticism, it must be said that once again this transfer of students to general housing support has gone quite well. Mr President! In Kela's activities, I think that the thing that should be of greatest interest to the MPs is that housing support expenditure has exploded quite incomprehensiblely in Finland over the last few years and is already becoming a factor that threatens the sustainability of our public finances as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u217	Mr President! First of all, thank you to Mr Sarkomaa for this report and for the way the President has looked at it. Indeed, I have been Vice-President of Kela's auditors for a couple of years now and have been able to hear a great deal about Kela's activities. We have professional auditors there who carry out the actual audit, and we laymen, parliamentarians, have more to do with ensuring and checking that the audit function is properly carried out as it should. We will also, of course, follow all these protocols as far as the Kela delegation and the government are concerned. In addition, we are told what kind of internal control is in this operation of Kela. There we will also take specific matters separately. Just as the representative said earlier, we have had so much thought about housing support issues. The second thing we were last discussed there was the management of Kela's operations: how it makes sense to manage operations in a decentralised manner across Finland and when it makes sense to act. We've been through a lot of different things there. There has also been a debate about whether or not this activity should be developed and how we, the so-called laity auditors, will be operating there. I have also been consulted in the Parliamentary Audit Committee on this matter on how to develop the activities, and I am sure these areas of development would exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u218	Madam President! As far as these current questions of Kela are concerned, I myself will take up this increase in housing allowance expenditure, to which Mr Kurvinen referred earlier in his excellent speech. The situation is that the cost of general housing allowance has increased by a significant amount during this parliamentary term. We're talking hundreds of millions already. This rate of cost growth has been very fast. There has been good development in this area: the student housing allowance has moved from the student housing allowance to the general housing allowance, which, in my opinion, is a very good reform and takes this housing allowance system of ours in the direction it should be, that is to say, all groups of the population would be covered by such a uniform housing allowance system. I think that we should move forward in the future. But all the same, the majority of this increase in housing allowance expenditure, i.e. the lion’s share, is flowing into large centres and growth centres where this heavy demographic pressure is causing the cost of housing to rise. There are, of course, a number of measures to be taken to address this. We are about to have this reform of the so-called 40-year interest subsidy model in a referral debate, and that is, of course, one way of bringing down the cost of living, but I believe that this whole housing subsidy system should be shaken as part of the reform and development of the rest of the social security system. In my view, in the coming parliamentary term, this reform of social security and the reform of the housing aid system as part of it will be one of the most important social policy objectives of the parliamentary term, and I think that we should start preparing for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u219	Mr President! Three things. I am very pleased that the external study group, which will clarify Kela's legislation, status, supervision and jurisdiction relations, has now been set up. The Social Insurance Institution certainly affects almost everyone in Finland. It is important that the functions that are there can be secured. But the world has changed in many ways, and that assessment is necessary. Whatever legislative action is taken, whatever decisions are taken, it is clear that it must be done parliamentaryly and that parliamentary working party must be set up. It is good that this has progressed now. The second point is that when I started as President of the Council of Governors — I would like to say this now to the parliamentary minutes — I also wanted to have a report from the management of Kela on the legislation as soon as possible. The legislation on the reel is lagging behind. Kela's organisation has been reformed, many things have changed, and all general principles of central government in particular do not apply to the Social Insurance Institution. For example, when Kela’s executives are elected, they cannot be selected for a fixed term, which is appropriate for similar tasks in the rest of the state administration and provided for in the Civil Service Act. When I saw this, I asked Kela’s management to assess the need for change. We will also give our views as a referral. That list has now been processed by Kela's Board of Directors and delegates, and we have sent it to the Government. Indeed, we urgently wish to see legislative proposals in order to keep the legislation on Kela up to date. Finally, the position of the parliamentary groups. When I presented and supported this report from there, it was unanimously stated that it was a bad thing that it was not appropriate that, at the moment, representatives of all the parliamentary groups were not represented in the Kela delegates. It is, of course, in Parliament's own hands; it does not necessarily need a legislative change. I agree with this view that it would be appropriate,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u220	Madam President! I would like to take another look at this report by Kela's delegates, where I think that Kela is also a very good player in the public sector and as part of our state machinery, in the sense that now in the rest of the state administration - whether it be district courts, enforcement, tax administration, garrison, anything else - all the savings made over the last twenty years have been made in such a way that offices have been reduced, and then there has been an increase in activity and costs in those large establishments, and there has been no interference in any way. The savings have been made through the thinning of the site network and the centralisation of the sites. But in Kela, even though certain decisions have been centralised, although other rationalisations have been made, even though there are digitalized services, there has been a desire to maintain a strong regional network of sites. That is the kind of doctrine I would like to see for the rest of the state administration: take It's where you learn from.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u221	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u222	Madam President! When we discussed the Kela Ombudsman's report a moment ago, one of the issues raised was the continuing increase in housing allowance expenditure. I think about EUR 2000 million per year is already being paid for housing allowance, that is far too much. I'm sure we'll all share that view from the left to the right. Why have housing benefits increased so much? The question is that the price of living in the largest cities and growth centres in particular, the rents are out of control. People can easily spend more than half of their disposable income on housing, and housing aid is used to make up for the economy. The question is that housing aid does not actually support residents, but those who own rental dwellings where people live, and when there are not enough affordable rental dwellings, it leads to the possibility of asking for oversized rents. One of the root causes of this problem is that, once long, 40-year self-rental housing has been supported by ARA loans in the past, this day these self-rental apartments are virtually no longer built by anyone other than cities and municipalities, and they too little. Of course, this is a particularly big problem in Helsinki, where rents have gone completely out of control because the objective of building ARA rental dwellings, and above all the objective of building them, is too low, and even the goal that a quarter of them will be ARA rental dwellings, including student housing and other types of special housing, will not be achieved. At the same time, other operators have withdrawn from the market for affordable rental housing. Why do I want to highlight this rent on your own? Because many people have the impression that they are somehow socially supported rental dwellings. No, the residents of them pay the rent for every euro, every cent of both the cost of capital and the cost of care. Well, in the past, we had two large players besides the cities who produced self-rental housing with these long ARA loans. Now the problem is that when they have this 40 - year condition, when it has become full, they may have been released into the so - called free market. Efforts have been made to make up for this by making such shorter solutions, mid-term decisions of between 10 and 20 years. They are like a ditch-to-all solution, because in a way it warms up for a while, but we know what happens in the winter when it warms up for a while. Ten or 20 years from now, we're gonna have that problem. In the past there have been two large, Sato and VVO, which have produced these apartments alongside the cities. Now they have withdrawn from it, no longer building affordable rental housing. On the contrary, once they have been exempted from regulation, the rents have been increased quite unduly. For people who have been able to live in the same rental dwelling for decades, rents will be increased — in unrefurbished homes and in dwellings where people can no longer afford to live, or they will have to apply for housing allowance. Where does the housing allowance go — when I said that it actually does not support people but the owners? If you look at the owners of Sato: The largest owner, 53.7 per cent, Swedish venture capitalists Balder Finska Otas AB. Second largest owner, 22.6 percent, Stichting Depositary APG Strategic Real Estate Pool. Thus, three-quarters of the housing benefits that we pay through Kela with tax money go beyond Finland’s borders. What about the VVO that works under the Kojamo brand as VVO and Lumona? The largest owners of pension insurance companies and smaller owners but with a larger pot total of different trade unions. Now, these housing subsidies, when they do not use them for affordable rental housing production, for self-paid rental housing production, run to these owners. As far as Kojamo is concerned, at least they will remain in the home country for our pensions and then for the trade union movement, but on the Sato side they will go to venture capital investors mainly in Sweden and the United Kingdom. Madam President! This bill contains some elements that can improve the situation, but this does not solve this problem. There should now be a much stronger start, not only through better state aid, but also through various land use agreements, in order to encourage cities to make this own-account and affordable construction. It is the way in which we can push down rents, and it is the way in which we can then influence the increase in housing subsidies, that they can first be stopped and, hopefully, that they can be calculated. So when we talk about housing policy in the capital region and especially in Helsinki, so many people can think that it is only a matter for the people of Helsinki, but it is not, it is for all of us because people cannot afford to live here, they receive housing allowance and, of course, the starting point should be that when you work, you can afford to pay for your own living and have a reasonable amount of money for other livelihoods. Madam President! Then let me raise one more detail, which is right-of-occupancy housing. It has been of great concern when people have bought its 10 percent right of residence. It is an intermediate form of housing and owner-occupied housing so that you can live in that apartment. The problem is that the system has not worked in such a way that it has in particular meant low rents. In fact, rents may be higher in many right-of-occupancy houses than in rented houses. But the second question is that there is a great deal of rumour and fear that this property could be taken away from these people, and of course that cannot be the case, and that is absolutely unacceptable. It is precisely a matter of having that certainty and security acquired for its own housing. The second point I would like to raise is the management of these right-of-occupancy housing, including shared-ownership housing, but there are so few that it is a marginal issue. The board of these housing companies should have a majority of residents so that they can make a genuine decision about the house and influence its housing costs. And when the Group often manages the maintenance and renovations and manages the management and so on, the management should be separated so that it should be clearly outside so that there is no conflict of interest. It is up to the host to take care of the housing company, but if he is on the payroll of the owner group at the same time, there will be a conflict of interest that the residents who actually have the interests or the group that owns them. This type of change should also be brought about by legislation capable of improving the position of these people who have invested their property in these right-of-occupancy dwellings, wanting a secure and safe form of rental housing. Madam President! There are good features of the legislation, but unfortunately this does not solve the major problems of housing policy that affect the whole of Finland's economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u223	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend, inter alia, the law on interest subsidies for rental mortgages and right-of-occupancy loans. The purpose of the proposal is to develop an interest-rate subsidy scheme based on that law to support the construction, acquisition and basic improvement of affordable, social housing and right-of-occupancy housing for residents with a view to making the aid scheme more efficient. State aid and restrictions on the use of subsidised dwellings would be better balanced and the aid scheme would encourage developers to produce more affordable rental and right-of-occupancy housing. It is also important to prohibit future repairs with rents or operating charges, which have caused considerable irregularities in the past. One example is Kojamo Oyj, which was the VVO Group Corporation, the largest private real estate investor and landlord in Finland until 2017. Its largest shareholders are pension insurers Ilmarinen and Varma and trade unions The Metal Workers' Federation, the Finnish Federation of Public and Welfare Industries (JHL), the Finnish Association of Building and Welfare Industries (PAM), the Trade Union for Services (OAJ), the Trade Union for Industrial Industries (Teyy), and also this Sato, a representative of Arhinmäki, who also has similar interests. Interest subsidies, housing subsidies as well as dividends collected by trade union movements continue to flow as rising rents, among other things, into the SDP’s electoral fund
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u228	Madam President! Mr Mölsä apparently read the speech he had written in advance when he said that it was difficult to criticise, for example, the activities of VVO, the current Kojamo, when I just took the floor, in which I specifically raised the beak as one of the problem operators Kojamo and VVO. Of course, I wonder why Mölsä did not raise the crop, where the owners are still Swedish and UK equity investors. That money does not even stay in Finland, but goes beyond Finland’s borders. In any case, when I have also been chairman of the party, I know to some extent something about the financial flows of the left-wing union, not only that I know something about my previous electoral cascades. I have not seen much of these large sums of money here mentioned, both in the Left Alliance and in my own constituency. That's pretty much what you do with your own money. But even if you did,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u229	Madam President! I look above all at this question as a Helsinki-based, bare-footed stadian as well as a Helsinki-based municipal decision-maker. Our biggest challenge at the moment is the price of living too high, and we have a crying shortage of affordable rental housing. This is the main cause of urban poverty, and it is already an obstacle to employment when people working in many fields can no longer afford to pay their wages to live in Helsinki. In fact, a large proportion of those working have to rely on housing support to cope with the costs of living, and that situation is quite unsustainable. A completely unsustainable situation is also what the government has chosen by weakening housing allowance so that the housing allowance does not flow to the wrong places. The best way is to create affordable housing. Affordable housing is therefore a key way to bring down the price of housing. In this respect, interest-rate loans are absolutely essential, and it is a long 40-year interest-rate loan, because they are used by operators of genuine public interest. The largest single owner of subsidised rental dwellings is the City of Helsinki. Without interest subsidies and genuine operators of general interest, there will be no affordable housing, and therefore the expectations for this reform will be very high. It is extremely important that Parliament approved this effort to reform the 40-year model of interest subsidies by adopting a ten-year model of interest subsidies, which is an example of not helping this problem. Helsinki has a very precise cross-party consensus and work to ensure that we want to do everything in our power to prevent the development of inequality in residential areas. One way to do this is to have precise distributions of housing production defined in order to ensure a balanced structure of residential areas. Ten years of interest support makes it impossible for us. If we have defined that one-quarter of the apartments must be affordable-subsidised, and within 10 years it will be free from regulation and change, it will make impossible the long-term work that must be done in order to prevent inequalities in the regions. I would see that in this new model, which is now being presented to us, the front-loaded loan payment is a very good thing. It is important not to be in a situation where, when the aid runs out, we are just facing a massive renovation. Hopefully, this will not put pressure on huge rent increases when it is time for the renovation. It is very sensible to amortise the abbreviations according to the life cycle of the building. Of course, this pre-emergence would reduce interest expenses on the loan and thus also government interest subsidies. That is what we support. The possibility of additional repayments is also very good, as long as this does not lead to excessive rent increases. We must ensure that it is closely monitored so that, if additional reductions are made, they are carried out responsibly. On the other hand, I am concerned about preparing for renovations. Reasonable real estate management is to keep the property in condition long-term and prepare for major repairs in good time so that they can be carried out in time and can be carried out without high rent increase pressure. The current model allows 1 to 2 euros per square metre for future renovations. In the model now presented, this euro-denominated provision is banned and adjustments are now foreseen through a change in the maximum rate of own contribution and through a prioritization that allows equity to be increased by other means. I understand this attempt to improve the financial situation in these companies in such a way as to be able to prepare for the construction of new interest-rate subsidies, but when this new model accumulates a much smaller amount in euros than the current model, it is a matter of concern whether this money will be sufficient for both future repairs and new production. So is this forward-focusedness enough to compensate for it? I believe that this is an issue which must be particularly specific in the forthcoming committee reading. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that in Helsinki we are currently facing a particular challenge in relation to ARA production, namely that Helsinki is growing a terrible ride, that the construction market is overheated. This has led to a significant increase in contract prices. It is already difficult for us to get to the square prices required by the ARA, which means that ARA production does not start up in accordance with our quantitative targets. Of course, it is very important that the ARA is very careful to ensure that where the aid is granted, there are certainly reasonably priced squares. But I personally would like to think about whether it would be more sensible to be flexible according to the economic cycle than to fall behind in the quantitative targets, because if we fall behind in the only form of affordable production, it as a whole will increase the cost of living, and that is something we simply cannot afford. Mr President! Finally, increasing housing production is, after all, an essential means of affecting the price of housing, but its effects will come in the long term. Local government land-use and land-use policies are absolutely central, but their effects are also far too slow in terms of the seriousness of the situation. On the other hand, start-up grants have been found to be a quick and effective way of making new production go into transport. There is also a good thing about start-up grants that they can easily be targeted at precisely those groups that are particularly perceived as being in favour at the moment, such as young people at the moment. As we read in ARA’s latest report, young people’s homelessness is growing worryingly, even though the rest of the homelessness is decreasing. So I would encourage the government to consider whether it would be appropriate to make a whole new package of start-up grants, because that is the fastest and most effective way to mobilise new production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u230	Madam President! Indeed, the goal of state-subsidised housing production is indeed to provide more affordable housing for Finns, and this long model of interest subsidies aims to produce affordable rental and right-of-occupancy housing, especially for people with low incomes and also medium incomes. We need more affordable housing, which has become clear even during this debate. And the affordable housing is needed throughout Finland, although the most screaming shortage is probably here in the capital region and in other growing centres where the price of living is packing up fast today. This cost of living can also be an obstacle to people’s employment, and it can also lead to inequality between city districts and people. Finland cannot afford this. This government proposal to develop a long-term interest rate subsidy model therefore contributes to the attractiveness of the interest rate subsidy scheme. I believe that it will thus also increase the production of affordable rental and right-of-occupancy housing. This reform would promote the approval of interest rate support loans specifically for growth centres. These requirements should therefore be mitigated by granting loans on the same terms to public and private operators. Overall, this proposal for a reform of this model of interest subsidies contains a number of proposals to facilitate, simplify and improve legislation. Above all, this reform takes strong account of the interests of the resident and the aim is to keep housing expenditure under control. This government proposal would improve the conditions for support for interest rate loans by a number of means. Administrative procedures in the spirit of red tape would be simplified and made easier for operators. Overall, the aim of this government proposal is to increase the attractiveness of affordable, subsidised housing for all operators. I share the concern expressed in this debate that the proportion of so-called 'public interest' players in affordable construction has decreased. This would certainly require a change, and this concern is shared. The main suggestions for improvement in this government proposal are indeed a significantly more forward-looking programme for the repayment of interest subsidies. It would certainly make many things easier for these housing communities. First of all, it would reduce the interest rate burden and then improve it when, at the end of the period, the loan element is lower, so that it would then be better to apply for loans to finance basic improvements. There is also a need to increase the flexibility to make a reduction in loans. To date, back-to-back interest subsidies have made it difficult for communities to maintain a comprehensive and sound economy and also to maintain real estate and, above all, to maintain an affordable level of rent. Well, then, this ban on future corrections in the new interest rate subsidy loans: I think this is a good reform, because this makes this aid scheme more transparent and is justified, above all, in the context of a more forward-looking repayment programme. So in the future, when this basic improvement funding would not be a problem, when that portion of the loan is not so large in the rest of the way, the inhabitants of the new dwellings would not at the same time have to pay large reductions and at the same time be prepared for renovation. I believe that this is the fundamental logic at this point. The current problem has been that residents have had to pay quite large sums for possible future repairs, and I think that this point in this reform is in the interests of the inhabitants. Sometimes these corrections have not been made and the controls have been incomplete and unclear. I think this is a good reform of this overall. Well, then on interest-rate loan lending rates: Loans will be increased by up to 15 per cent. This maximum lending rate would increase to a maximum of 95 % in all interest subsidy loans for rental dwellings, and then this increase would be similar, up to 15 %, for these basic loans for the improvement of housing communities. All in all, I believe that this reform takes full account of the essential objective of making this system of interest-rate subsidies and this affordable housing system more attractive to all operators. In addition to these growth centres, there are other aspects that I would like to highlight here. There are a wide range of housing policy challenges and problems in deprived areas. The structure of the economy is changing, and migration, the age structure is causing the population to decline quite rapidly in certain municipalities. In these deprived municipalities, the supply of housing exceeds their demand and there are quite a few empty dwellings. That is a rather wide-ranging problem at the moment. The number of old rental dwellings is particularly high in many municipalities, and this stock of rental dwellings is often made up of municipal owners. These empty dwellings cause problems, above all, for these municipalities and then also for the inhabitants. I would particularly like to highlight these regional centres, the cities of the region, whose development this challenge of housing policy poses major problems. I think it is very important that this interest-subsidised loan portfolio and the associated risks in these areas should be more responsive and pursued in such a common sense of responsibility throughout this system. It is very important to enable competitive and attractive housing production also outside growth centres. It has significant regional policy implications. For example, in my own region of Central Finland there are localities, such as Äänekoski, Jämsä, also my own municipality of residence Saarijärvi, where we have quite significant amounts of city-owned rental dwellings built with ARA support or under the Arava system, whose maintenance has been neglected or left behind. This housing stock does not attract new residents due to its poor condition. Now, however, these municipalities have a strong desire to develop their own business and get new businesses and then get new employees for our growing industrial companies, but this housing stock is causing the local housing market to fail. When a lot of these indecent rental dwellings are sold there, housing prices are forced to fall even further. As a result, grynders are not interested in producing a new stock of rental dwellings in these areas. This causes such a sad situation that it will then be difficult to get the working-age population there, even if the industrial companies in our region so badly need it at the moment. In other words, we see that we face very different challenges in housing policy in different parts of the country, but we should try to respond in a balanced way to all of these. I believe that this government proposal is one step towards a better housing policy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u231	Mr President! We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have a great deal of discussion on housing and construction issues. We are dealing with government proposals, but also with our own affairs, which include this housing health. However, I expect that more and more things, even in their own right or otherwise, will be brought up in relation to the construction of wood. There are far too few of them. It's all talk, but it's not action right now. The purpose of this proposal is to increase housing construction in accordance with the Government's programme. The aim is to encourage developers to produce affordable rental and right-of-occupancy housing. That is indeed our objective. Then, apart from this issue, I would like to point out that, as Mr Honkonen has just pointed out, there are more and more vacant dwellings in Finland. At the moment, are we encouraging people to give up their homes elsewhere too easily? Should we courageously raise this issue as it now seems that we should not even talk about this? It is no one’s advantage that the rents of growth centres are peaking, that the number of housing subsidies is increasing, and that good buildings in the rest of the region remain leisure homes, while many people would still like to live there and work elsewhere than in growth centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u232	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Housing and construction were raised as one of the top themes in the 2015 Government Programme negotiations. Mr Mölsä, who spoke here a moment ago, was working with me on this role in housing and construction in the government programme. One of the main objectives was that we wanted to find ways to boost economic growth, but also to find ways to meet the different challenges of housing in Finland. This debate has brought up in a good way, or, on the other hand, in a sad way, the different challenges facing us in terms of housing and construction at the moment. We have areas where there is actually no money to renovate, for example, old apartment buildings. On the one hand, the housing companies are not allowed to lend to these renovations, and on the other hand, the situation is often such that once-paid housing is practically covered by such a major renovation that the housing will have to be paid in a different way, and that is, of course, a difficult and incomprehensible situation for many. But then the other head is these areas that, in the face of urbanisation, suffer from housing shortages. Yes, the main reason why housing prices are rising is that there is not enough housing supply. When there is too little housing, it is automatically reflected in the price of living. It is reflected in the rents, it is reflected in the sales prices of dwellings, and therefore, as a key solution, we started to seek that we need different housing production also in growth centres. Therefore, the ten-year interest subsidy introduced by the Minister of Housing, Jan Vapaavuori, was re-introduced and well-functioning. It's been working really well. It opened up significant new construction for us and also brought construction to the growth corridors. The second was that we wanted to find ways to alleviate the shortage of land. Different building requirements have been moderated, such as accessibility requirements, that each dwelling no longer necessarily needs to be accessible. Minimum size regulation in housing has also been simplified and solutions have been sought to make smaller-scale housing. And yes, I personally encourage cities to consider the means they have. For example, the average size regulation that some cities have in place is one that increases the cost of living, even though it has a beautiful objective in itself. The issue of civil protection has been one that has been discussed for longer. But then another, which is up to the cities themselves to decide, is the requirements for parking and parking spaces. Yes, today there is beginning to be a situation where we have a lot of areas where, with good conscience, we can also give up private car parking, and when it is done in the construction process, the buyers of the dwelling know and know it. Housing construction has worked well as a locomotive, and it stimulated our economic growth. Last year, construction employed some 185,000 construction professionals, and this year it has been estimated that there will still be an increase of around 2,000 jobs or years of work. The development of employment in the construction sector has therefore been a key driver in improving employment in our country. This was one of the goals of making this cheaper housing possible. Last year, a record number of ARA dwellings started for a long time, 8560 ARA dwellings, of which less than 3,000 with this 40 interest subsidy, with 40 years of support from special groups 2610 and 10 years of support 400 dwellings. This was an increase of around 8 per cent from the previous year, which means 660 dwellings overall. The majority of these, about 85%, started in growth centres, and then the second objective is that we have also wanted to invest in the growth corridors through land use, housing and transport agreements — some 50% of them came to the so-called MAL municipalities. Overall, housing production has also been good, around 35,000 in total, of which the share of ARA production has thus been around 20 per cent. When we made that ten - year interest - rate subsidy earlier, it was decided that the attractiveness of this 40 - year period will also be updated and seen through. This proposal now contains a number of proposals aimed at improving the conditions for new interest subsidies and increasing affordable housing. These changes have been examined above, including a ban on the preparation of repairs. Of course, there is an interesting situation here that we now have agreements in this same 40-year package, some of which should be prepared for repairs and others should not be prepared for repairs. This is a package which perhaps deserves careful consideration in the committee's deliberations. I personally welcome the fact that the guidelines and objectives that we agreed together in the negotiations on the Government Programme have been very well achieved. There are still measures to be taken on this whole of housing and construction, that is to say, the Minister of Housing that makes us do it. The brick still has enough for the last year of the government. But much has been accomplished, and fortunately this is reflected in the cost of living many people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u233	Madam President! With regard to this proposal, too, we must regret the fact that we are at this hour of the debate on referrals, and then the Minister will not be able to present the matter. Of course, this change in the support system itself is important but small in view of the current problems with housing policy. And, as stated here in the government proposal, this of course aims to encourage builders to produce more affordable rental and right-of-occupancy housing. Yesterday I attended a social assistance seminar in Kela. Yes, it was rather sad to hear that, in addition to having a housing allowance system, today we also have to meet these increased housing costs through the income support system. This is particularly the case in the capital region, and a bit of a ghastly it might be said that it is a kind of regional aid, too, when we pay so much for the housing of this region from state money. Of course, all in all, there are major problems with housing allowance and income support that if people have social problems in the background, for example, it may be that the housing allowance paid to an account goes for some other purpose of power, and then there will be a situation where homelessness is prevented and those actual housing costs will be paid from the discretion of the income support. In some way, in this combination of our income support system and social work, we should perhaps ask ourselves again whether it is still best that we automatically pay a person's account on the basis of an application without seeing it, without facing people. Those problems rarely improve by the fact that they are still being fed through money. But, Madam President, to this proposal to the actual government: I looked at those statements which were quite widely opposed to the points in the proposal concerning the 5% self-financing required of interest-subsidised borrowers and, on the other hand, the ban on future corrections in the case of new interest-subsidised loans, which were expected to significantly reduce the attractiveness of the interest-rate subsidy scheme and the production of affordable rental and right-of-occupancy housing. On the other hand, all the commentators supported the proposals for a more pre-weighted loan reduction programme for interest-rate loans and also for raising the maximum lending rates for interest-rate subsidies for rental dwellings and reducing the conditions for granting interest-rate subsidy loans and improving the conditions for granting aid for interest-rate loans. Opinions were clearly divided in the opinions on these proposals concerning the new index-linked interest-rate loan, the amendment of the provisions on the disposal of subsidised or subsidised dwellings and the recovery of the interest-rate subsidy paid in the event of the withdrawal of the status of general interest and also the timetable for the entry into force of the proposed legislative changes, so it seems that the committee still needs to reflect on some of these details which may require further corrections to this government proposal. But, as I said at the outset, all in all, this is, of course, quite a welcome proposal as a whole, but this does not solve these enormous problems of housing policy at the moment. And in this context we cannot fail to mention that the Christian Democrats have now been working on this system of encouraging basic security, which is based, in part, on that universal credit, which is in place in Great Britain. After all, there is one part of this combination of housing aid, and there is, in principle, the situation that the subsidy element related to the dwelling is paid into the landlord's account. Obviously, when social problems or potential abuse hips have been considered, it has also been used to prevent them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u234	Madam President! In this regard, Mr Modig — he has already left — referred earlier to the preparation of future repairs to these rental houses, now that the possibility of this preparation has been removed. I am also surprised by this criticism in the sense that other residents, such as owners of housing shares, are not obliged to pay or, in practice, do not pay the precautionary fee for future repairs, but in practice are paid for those current repairs, those annual repairs and current expenses in respect of the company's consideration and then for these various maintenance charges in relation to the repairs carried out by the housing company on a loan. I do not quite understand why the tenants should now pay these reserves. Mr Arhinmäki here earlier pointed out that the inhabitants should have — let me get this straight. — representation on these boards of housing companies. I wonder, however, how this could be possible. At the moment, it's against the Housing Company Act. This is not how it can be done. I understand this need to take better account of the status of tenants, but I do not think that is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u236	Madam President! This change in the so-called long-term interest subsidy loan is a proposal aimed at improving this system and making it more attractive for it to be built even more of this kind of affordable rental housing. And the point of view of the resident in this proposal has, I believe, been what has been tried to go ahead. Mr President! As has already been well pointed out in previous speeches, we have had such a distortion in Finland over the last few decades that, by supporting people's ability to live in a high-quality and humane way and to have their own home, the solution has been to increase financial investment in housing subsidies and various housing social benefits paid by Kela and, instead, to reduce support for affordable housing production. The figures tell us a rather unpretentious language. The figures I have are that 400 million would even have increased the cost of housing allowance during this parliamentary term and that is now EUR 2 billion, or EUR 2000 million. Juha Sipilä's government has tried to turn this issue into a better one. There is a special thank you to Minister of Housing Kimmo Tiilikainen and his staff. Among other things, the production of student housing has been increased and this would certainly be justified in the future, since when students move there to the housing of the Student Housing Foundation or other student actors, they will then be released from the market, for example, for those who work, and the pressure will be lifted and prices reduced. Mr President! We should find a way in which we could specifically support the construction of affordable housing and reduce the cost of housing allowance. I claim that this increase in housing allowance already threatens the sustainability of our public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u237	Madam President! When the Minister is not present, I will take a floor to gather here, where I will comment on some of the speeches that have been made here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u242	Madam President! I have to say that it sounds a little like that when I listened to Mr Arhinmäki's excellent and learned speech just now, that here it seems a little bit that the views of the Centre and the Left Alliance, at least on these issues of housing policy and housing, are very similar and similar, and it is easy to agree with many of Mr Arhinmäki's ideas. It is not right that our housing subsidies are practically pouring into investors' pockets. That is not the purpose of the taxpayers' money to support the housing of the disadvantaged and least-incomed population. It's not right. Mr President! When I’m a downtown person, housing policy also attracts many such solutions as third-road solutions or such intermediate forms of rental housing and owner-occupied housing. The right-of-occupancy associations are a very traditional way of organising affordable housing, the possibility of catching up to their own apartment with a little less capital. I think we should revive those right-of-occupancy associations. Recently, especially this kind of housing for older people and pensioners, so-called senior houses, senior housing, has been established quite a lot throughout Finland. The ARA also examines and has studied whether cooperatives, the old traditional model of decades ago, could organise housing, whether housing cooperatives could also be established once again. That could be an interesting version, too. Yes, the city centre has stated that it should be possible to build such mini-homes, especially in Helsinki housing policy and other housing policy in the metropolitan area. They are appropriate for certain life situations, not, of course, when you have a mate, children. There can be no 15-square apartment or other micro-home, but as a student and why not at the time of being a Member of Parliament, such a mini-home could sometimes become a useful need. Mr President! I want to end this good debate on housing policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-07-ps-18.u243	Madam President! This speech by Mr Arhinmäki was indeed a convening one, and it is difficult to disagree with these points. However, as far as this right-of-occupancy housing is concerned: I agree that this transparency needs to be improved in these right-of-occupancy communities. There is room for improvement, and I believe that this right-of-occupancy reform is intended to present, it is likely to present, to the residents their own auditor. I believe that such a reform would be important and certainly would respond to this particular concern. However, it must be remembered that this right-of-occupancy fee is not an investment, it is not a capital investment in the sense that buying a dwelling share may be, but a payment that gives it the right to live in that dwelling. In that sense, the comparison of it to the ownership of a housing share does not fully work.
