ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask the ministers present to indeed move to the ministerial box, but now I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u2	First of all, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u3	Mr President! Social welfare reform has already been discussed in Parliament and its Committee on Social Affairs and Health. However, it seems that the reform is not yet complete. One of the news of the day is that the market model for social services seems to need a different compensation system. We have now read articles about the government preparing each Finnish for scoring and calculating the financial value. The scoring and calculation of values would be done on the basis of each of their own health data, and this would not even be shared with the citizen. The general principle in Finland, however, is that citizens should be informed about the use of data covered by the protection of personal data. I would now like to ask you, Minister, if you could tell everyone who is scoring us and why, and why, people cannot have access to this information themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u4	Mr President! I am happy to answer the question of the chairman of the committee, because I understand very well that, due to misleading or incomplete information, this issue has raised concerns in Finns, and I am sure it will not be any easier when, at the same time, there is a strong international debate on the information and misuse of information about us in the social media. There is a lot of information about us in Finnish data registers on health and social services, in fact exceptionally much. When asked by international actors, Finland is seen as an interesting subject for example to make research data precisely because we have data collected for so long, for example, thanks to our maternity clinic system. The aim of the government's social welfare reform is not to score citizens on the basis of their health or illness. That information is incorrect and incorrect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u5	Let me remind you that one minute is a minute. — — — — I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u6	Mr President! Yes, I dare say that each of us feels that health information is among the most sacred. In that respect, it is a serious matter both ethically and legally. This profiling, which has now been presented, is a genuine concern for the citizens, which is being taken seriously. It is not just the Minister's word and your blog — where are the unambiguous legal provisions and justifications and justifications for this project? Now, Minister Saarikko, we are on your word alone. I also noticed that the Data Protection Supervisor and the legal scholars are also surprised by this project. I would like to ask you again, Minister: could you now tell Parliament how you have clarified the privacy issues of citizens and whether this kind of profiling on the basis of health data is in line with Finnish laws and EU legislation on such a large scale?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u7	Mr President! I'd be happy to answer that. First of all, it is a little bizarre and somewhat confusing that, if we think more generally, even if we have had a debate in this Chamber earlier on, specifically on information on social and health services and public health information, it has generally been a concern about why information is not available and why the authorities cannot exchange information so that it works for the benefit of the citizen or the patient.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u8	Mr President! Now I feel like we might be talking a little different when we talk about information management or customer scoring. So this social welfare model of yours is now leading to the need for information in Finland on how to make us more attractive to social welfare and health services companies. So they talk about customer scoring because a healthy and well-incomed person is a customer that all companies want, because he brings money to the company but does not necessarily use that money from there. But, for example, an overweight, long-term ill pensioner is not an attractive customer for the company unless he brings a large bag of money to the company when he becomes a customer. Only after that is he an attractive client. We therefore need customer points for each of us. I could think if I didn't know it wasn't about Finland. Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u9	Mr President! I will use the time given to this answer only briefly in order to make this clear at least in the face of this rather complex whole: social centres, private or public service providers, do not choose their customers, but citizens choose. Healthy as the sick make the choice of the social welfare centre themselves, and there is an opportunity to change that choice every six months.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u10	Mr President! This is a very interesting debate. I did not see whether, in that reply by Minister Saariko, if that information is collected or available — it is often a good thing that information passes, that customers do not have to carry the piece of paper with them, the old X-ray pictures — is it true that the customer would not have the right to know what he has in the records there? I find that rather worrying. Generally speaking, we always have the right to check registers or files to see what information we have and on what basis they are made. In many cases they may be old records that may include personal opinions of a doctor or even a social worker. I am very concerned about this. Now, please tell us what information may be collected and where and whether it will always be provided if it so wishes and, in particular, free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u11	Mr President! This question was also appropriate so that I could correct that misunderstanding. It's one thing to talk about patient records and medical records. They are accessible to all of us. I hope, all colleagues, that you have used the service on the kansanta.fi, where the electronic archive contains all the health information, including, for example, the laboratory test results. In fact, it is also being extended to the fact that social services information on people is available to us, both in cooperation with professionals and, above all, with the public themselves, as the doctor has written about that reception meeting since we were here. This information is, of course, used by the service provider chosen by the customer and the citizen of the social welfare centre. But would money come from what has been written in the medical records about you or me, all of us citizens? No, funding is not based on it, but is a general principle of compensation, for example, that an elderly person with diabetes carries with him
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u12	Mr President! Yes, Finns are rightly shocked by these new data, that with the wars, the price will be calculated for every person according to the amount of health care that they are burdening. People are valued on the basis of health and this has nothing to do with the flow of information. Well, the need to make such a compensation model is a direct consequence of the government's intention to commercialise Finnish social welfare and health care. In this business war, companies have an incentive to perform cream peeling, i.e. to select patients to maximise their own profits, and it is so obvious that it is now necessary for the government to make such a model of compensation for information security and legal problems, through which they are trying to prevent these firms from carrying out this dreaded cream peeling. Would it be time, Minister, for us to withdraw from the wide-ranging model of freedom of choice for privatisation and cream peeling, which is now a cause for concern?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u13	Mr President! It was a good thing that this cream peeling technique came up, which is often conceptually in front of the social welfare reform to be painted as a threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u16	The Swedish parliamentary group had this same question, so I give the floor to Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u17	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är inte kontigt att medborgarna har svårt att henga med i vad det au handlar om, att ä en poäng på varje patient. Hur ska man få reda på viikka sjukdomar någon har? På viket jätt kommer ett sådant registerr att upprätthållas? Det skulle reserve bra om minister Saarikko skulle bäätta om det är något som regeringen har berett en längre tid eller om det är en fråga som THL nu har lyft till behandling.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u18	Mr President! I would like to point out with great precision and seriousness that it is neither necessary nor right to discuss the safety of Finnish health data in the same context as assessing whether we are going to a world where people's data are being disclosed, as Facebook did. Finland has strong legislation on data protection and we have a new directive on the EU, which in fact only strengthens and clarifies this. The reform of the social security system follows these factors. And as far as the options for freedom of choice are concerned, Parliament has been discussing the proposal for freedom of choice since last spring, and in that proposal these texts, articles, formulations and criteria, as far as they were already known, and they are in fact being prepared, were in fact very similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u19	Mr President! When we talk about collecting citizens' social and health information in a new register and thereby putting people in a new register, it is understandable that this is, of course, a very sensitive issue. This disquiet, which has arisen with this question, is also confirmed by the fact that Prime Minister Sipilä recently raised in a panel on information technology the question of whether human health data held by Kela could possibly be sold and filled in gaps in the state economy in this way. It is also known that the Kanta service has not always functioned in the best way, that data leaks have occurred and that HUS patient data has also fallen into the wrong hands. So let me ask you again: have you certainly tested in the government how this new scoring tool and the customer register you have designed are in line with the EU Data Protection Directive, which is currently under parliamentary scrutiny and which, as far as I know, is very strict about collecting people's data on different registers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u20	Mr President! It is one thing to discuss whether information about us goes to a social welfare centre, that doctor's office, our previous patient history. I believe that everyone thinks that it is a good thing for professionals to use our treatment to assess the patient history and previous treatment we have received. It is a different question to assess how our data as an anonymous mass are treated as the basis for a study or for these criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u21	Mr President! First of all, I find it worrying that citizens are valued in this way according to the money that: [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u22	Mr President! There were many very good questions. For one thing, is it wrong for a person to be valued on the basis of how much sickness he has? Of course it's wrong if we're thinking about valuing human dignity. But if we value it as if we ensure that a multi-sick person will certainly receive the care he needs and that the euro is sufficient and anonymised information goes with him or that he is massed into a social centre, then I do not think it is wrong, because then we will ensure that the heart of this reform is realised, that the people who suffer a great deal will be helped. And another important question: can customers or patients be selected? No, we can't. The Sote Centre can't decide who's listed as their clients. After a certain amount, they can report that we are unable to accept any more patients,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u23	Madam President! This is an incredible attempt by the opposition to confuse citizens with false information and imaginations and to increase public unrest on this issue, based on misconceptions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u26	Mr President! I feel that I have not been encouraged here to score the performances of the opposition, but I note that this is a valuable subject for discussion in view of the fact that the spirit of time is of concern to us all as to what our data are being used for, and it is also very much in the hands of the government and Parliament as a result of the entry into force of the EU Data Protection Directive. It is precisely about tightening up and clarifying the rules and the way in which the information collected about us can be used elsewhere. Mr President, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that it is, of course, pointless for the citizens to give the impression that we are scoring citizens better or worse. It is one thing to talk about a system of compensation than about our health data, the smooth use and mobility of which we all agree on, and we hope that it will be in the best interests of our patients. It is one thing to discuss it as a basis for reimbursement than to support patient care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u27	Mr President! First of all, I would like to remind you in this debate that anonymisation is not a magic word. Its problem is that if it is done too efficiently, the context disappears from the data and it becomes worthless. On the other hand, if it is done too carelessly, it is quite simple to combine information to determine who is involved, and this has been demonstrated several times by scientists. We do indeed have very sophisticated registers in Finland, but the problem is that we are now going to have this EU Data Protection Regulation at the same time and, on the other hand, we want to improve the use of this data. Both are important principles. I want my information to be safe; on the other hand, I want my patient information to contribute to medicine. And now I want to hear: how thoroughly and carefully does the government intend to be careful here that we do not go in this anonymization and the use of this information and its limitation in either direction too far but find a working compromise?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u28	Mr President! It was a good question for the expert, to which I would like to say the fact that, when we look at Sweden in the neighbouring country, there are already many different versions of the compensation models and different implementations in different countries, and it is difficult to find a balance between the measure and the basic per-cussal levy in view of the financing of social services. But it is just as difficult to balance what is the share of the privacy of information and only in our best use, and between the research ethical aspect that it would be good if researchers could use the health data for this group of diseases to come up with a new medicine. Here in Parliament we are currently discussing a so-called secondary law, which will make it easier for researchers, for example, to make information more easily available behind a one-stop shop, but once again so that the data of an individual patient cannot be identified under any circumstances. A broad, difficult question that cannot be answered through just one law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u29	Mr President! This whole reform of social welfare and health services is a big and confusing, even a little scary for the citizens: fear of how to get care in the future, care for health and so on. Now this new scoring debate, which started with the public debate, has been still confusing, and I find it rather ghastly that we are laughing about this serious issue here, as it were. This is a very serious matter for people, and this is because this large entity, health and social services, is important for ordinary citizens, the very core of the welfare state. Now I ask you, Minister Saarikko: have I understood correctly that if it were not for the subscriber—producer separation, i.e. there would be no separation between the subscriber and the producer, then it would not be for this kind of market model, but for the public sector to be the organiser and main producer and then, if necessary, buy services from the private or third sector — i.e. there would be no need for such a scoring system, there would be no need for a system in which people are valued for money?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u30	Mr President! First of all, I wish that we in this Chamber would avoid that this scoring becomes like this, that we ourselves begin to believe that people are really being scored. Let's not do this on an individual level. But then I would like to say about this regional funding model, as some of this group here know very well that more than 80% of the regional funding model comes from a study carried out by the THL in 2013 and that morbidity is the most important criterion. And with regard to the disease — when you look at the bill — there is a very precise diagnosis of the diseases from which the funding comes. We should understand that if we are to be able to look at the funding or, at this point, the compensation model, it does not come from the air. It requires research data, and that's what THL is doing right when you're doing this replacement model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u31	We will now move on to the spending limits budget debate for a moment, although it will be a longer debate next Tuesday, but a number of groups have asked a question about it. Let's take the questions. Parliamentary Group of the Finns Party, representative Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u32	Madam President! This development of central government finances is indeed a topical issue now, and the Finns of Finland have also prepared their own basic Finnish option, which focuses on employment, entrepreneurship and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u35	Mr President! Firstly, it must be said that the decisions taken by the government for its part on immigration policy also have an impact on the fact that the situation of immigration has been managed at the moment, and the outlook in the spending limits debate is also such that we do not need to increase the cost of preparing for immigration in this context, in contrast to the need to do so in some years. And this has been one of the bases for investing in knowledge, education, employment, as has been done forcefully in this debate, and fortunately, jobs are being created and the economy is growing. On this issue of citizenship: In the various processes, we will assess how, in particular in relation to terrorist offences, and in particular in relation to the factors involved in endangering the national security of society, nationality can be assessed more closely and how, in certain situations, the issue of its withdrawal can also be assessed more closely. In this respect, the question is well-founded and the process is being taken forward. But no significant changes to it
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u36	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions about spending limits, to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u37	Madam President! That continuing claim by the government that the number of asylum seekers has fallen from your actions — we all know that it is quite incorrect. That is because of the actions of other countries, including the EU-Turkey agreement. But why is citizenship, in fact, also very relevant to this issue of asylum? It is precisely because when you come to Finland today as an asylum seeker, your citizenship will be acquired within four years. This means that the system is now about an asylum seeker coming here to stay. The asylum system is not a system of temporary, temporary protection, as it should be. In Finland, this general requirement for residence time, which is required to obtain citizenship, is 5 years. In Austria, for example, it is 10 years, in Denmark 9 years, in Germany 8 years, in Norway 7 years. In other words, it is the easiest thing to get citizenship in Finland. It should be an honour — before it was granted by the President, these days they are being distributed on a conveyor belt. Does the Minister not think it would be appropriate to re-examine this length of residence period at European level?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u38	Minister Mykkänen. — Although this was not really a question of spending limits, it is taken here anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u39	No, no, no. As far as spending limits are concerned, we can only say that, fortunately, we are in a situation where we do not have an increasing share of the state economy reserved for immigration costs, as we have had to do in some years. It has, of course, contributed to the government's decisions, but of course this general immigration situation is different, which is why there has now been room for positive Finnish decisions on employment and education. On this issue of citizenship: Indeed, first of all, I think that the main rule is that, of course, asylum is granted to those who face personal threats under international treaties and our own constitution. And if during this process, after five years here, they fulfil the conditions for citizenship, then we do not see the need to change that principle. The question then is that we must, of course, be precise at all stages, including when the residence permit has been issued, it must be possible to withdraw it if there is a serious risk to security. Here in Parliament, legislation is currently under discussion, which is related to this. Similarly, at the time of granting citizenship, there is a need to be more precise on these issues, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u40	Mr President! Yesterday, the government held its spending limits, and it saw more blows against the faces of young people. It seems that previous massive cuts in education during this period have not yet been enough for this government, but will continue to be cut in the coming years. The index freezes of higher education institutions will remain and the cuts made to vocational institutions will not be reversed. This week the same government was concerned about the marginalisation of young people and low birth rates. How the government responds to its own concerns and to the concerns of all of us: it increases uncertainty, increases fixed-term contracts and facilitates dismissal. In fact, one of the factors that undermines employment most is the lack of training. Why, Minister for Education, does the government not simply stop the cuts in basic funding, but deepens the institutions of higher education and higher education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u41	Mr President! Thank you for the question. I strongly urge the honourable Member to look at the balance of this debate and the contributions made by the government to education and training in order to strengthen the availability of skilled labour in yesterday's decisions: conversion training, other forms of training that enable people to study the new profession and find employment. The equality of day-care centres will be strengthened by the EUR 10 million equality allowance, which is now being granted for the first time. Today, a new law on early childhood education, the law on high school, was adopted. There were more resources for upper secondary school education, including more personal guidance. Language teaching is early in Finland. This spending limits bar produced a number of decisions to strengthen learning outcomes, which will strengthen the quality of education, which will bring Finnish education forward and brighter prospects for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u42	And then the question of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u43	Mr President! Before the spending limits, the Blue Parliament Group outlined the main objective of freezing the basic security indexes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u44	Madam President! Yeah, we've got the spending limits now, and the result's here. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u45	I will give you another ministerial statement, Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u46	Mr President! I would like to remind Mr Andersson of the situation in which we started in 2015 after your party had also been on the board. The situation was very disastrous: the budgetary situation was poor and we also had to make these very heavy and unfortunate adjustment decisions. As far as these indices are concerned, I would like to remind you that we were quite clear on our part last week when it was discussed that there was no chance of going there: the government has chosen the path of improving employment, exports and the economy being in much better shape. It has given us the opportunity, in this spending limits debate, to do some EUR 70 million very well, to specify the targets for that aspect of basic security and for the benefit of the most vulnerable. In particular, I would like to emphasise this increase in the minimum daily allowance. I don't think it's nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u47	Let us also take the question of the Christian Democrats in the parliamentary group. Congressman Räsänen Päivi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u48	Mr President! The budgetary plan places up to EUR 4 billion on the savings from social security reform, which has been called into question by a large number of parties and from the point of view of many experts, and in particular with regard to these implementation costs, including wage harmonisation. After all, the Labour Court has now adopted a recent decision to harmonise the wages of physiotherapists in the Kainuu Soite Joint Municipal Authority with the highest levels of pay. A year ago, when it was estimated that the cost of this wage harmonisation would be in the fork from 75 to 700 million euros, and now it is estimated that these costs of wage harmonization can be much higher, I would ask you: what is the government's estimate of the cost of wage harmonization, how are you going to solve this problem, and do you really think that this objective of saving is still realistic?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u49	Mr President! In fact, the objective of reducing costs of around EUR 3 billion has been calculated for the social welfare reform. As I am sure Mr Räsänen knows, our costs are going up quite a bit in the next decade, and we want that level of costs to be reduced. But then on to these change costs: It is quite true that, especially in recent weeks, when all the provinces have had their own negotiations with the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, there have been many changes, such as the costs associated with the premises, the costs of ict change and also this issue of wage harmonisation. You are also well aware of that, and quite a few representatives here, that there have been these main laws for a year now and, according to the legislation before us in this House, there is a plan to proceed by negotiation, and that means that national organisations are negotiating, but that is what is happening in the provinces, and that is how we are going to go about this. But we have seen these decisions of the Labour Court here from the very last few days.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u50	Let us take a few more answers to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u51	Mr President! The question is that during Parliamentary Question Time the opposition may ask questions to worthy ministers. It would be very desirable for the Minister of Education to answer the questions that have been put to him. We asked about the indexes of higher education, we asked about the funding of vocational education. These questions were not answered. [Department :Actually! ] During this parliamentary term, Minister Mattila, the total amount of index freezes is already close to half a billion euros in euros. In the case of the unemployed, this means a total cut of about EUR 300 out of their pocket. We know very well that the spending limits have been laid. You don't have to tell us that again. The question is why index freezes are not cancelled, which is why Kela's benefits are not re-linked to the cost of living. And, Minister Vehviläinen, your financial discipline is very selective. How can it be that there is a huge cut in basic human security and education and, at the same time, this EUR 3 billion sign of social security reform has already turned into a plus?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u52	Mr President! Indeed, it is not meant to fail to answer, but there were a few questions for everyone in this question. I would now like to stress strictly that, if I remember correctly, the last Question Time here also called for an increase in these minimum daily allowances, and that has now been done, and I think that we should all be pleased that this has been done. But what I said about this index issue, we all know that it is a large sum of money, what these increases in the national pension index would be, and we made the choice when we still had very limited money, that we wanted real, adequate, large increases where we put them, and we thought that the minimum daily allowance was that. I would like to remind the Greens and the Left Alliance that during the last parliamentary term you were not prepared to increase these minimum daily allowances. You raised labour market support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u53	Mr President! The Government made at least one good decision yesterday: that decision brought spring and joy to Tampere, especially the Tampere Workers' Theatre, when, as we understand it, the Government has given up bringing this state-owned reform of performing art to this Parliament. In this connection, I would also like to thank all the representatives of Pirkanmaa for the fact that, regardless of the colour — and I refer to the events of 1918 — we pushed through this significant artistic reform that the National Stage of the Labour Theatre will remain. Can you now, on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Culture, acknowledge that we have understood this correctly now that artistic work can continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u54	Mr President! Minister of Culture Terho is not here today, but I can tell you that yesterday the government made a big and important decision that cultural funding in Finland will increase — EUR 7 million in additional cultural resources — and we all know that culture is our cultural capital, it will generate a lot of new and well-being in society, and culture will be a major driving force in our society, a part of cultural capital. Minister Terho will tell us about the steps forward towards the reform of the state of culture, I am sure, when he is here today — he has been prevented. But I would like — if the President allows — to respond briefly to the rest of the questions concerning education and training, to the fact that, as a result of this debate, the government took important decisions to ensure the availability of skilled labour, and this pot will also become a resource for higher education institutions, as well as for vocational education and training,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u58	Mr President! As in this Chamber many times we have shared concerns about the fact that no young person would miss out on or miss out on education because there are educational material costs in secondary school and vocational education, so the government now responds to this concern with a new material supplement, which will become part of the student financial aid for secondary students. It can be said, therefore, that the student allowance for secondary school students will increase in order to cover the costs of upper secondary school and vocational education in a situation where the family or young person is in a difficult economic situation and the materials cannot be obtained: then the help will come. This is a significant, large, new investment in equality of education and opportunities, so that everyone has the opportunity to study in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u59	Mr President! Employee protection is an important protection for all people. There is a lot of life built on it. In fact, many depend on it, even on housing, housing, housing, and building the conditions for life. In addition to the financial decisions of the spending limits committee, to everyone’s surprise, the government announced that it would give the right to free dismissal to the smallest companies and, in addition, to facilitate the deadlines for young workers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since there has also been a great deal of concern about the uncertainty of young people about starting a family, how do you assess how these weakenings of the working conditions that the government is doing affect the desire of young people to start a family, and did you have a view of this in the debate on the spending limits, did you concern yourself with these decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u60	Mr President! With regard to these questions of security of employment, which you have raised, I hope that, if you wish, you will be able to return to them when the minister responsible is present, but I will be happy to answer the question of the overall picture of birth rates. It is very good that it is the subject of debate for the opposition and the government and therefore for the future of Finland as a whole. I could use my speech to explain the positive decisions taken by families, the EUR 80 withdrawal of these smallest maternity, paternity and parental allowances per month, or the better family leave for adopted families, or the already existing addition to the single parent-sharing breed that was decided on in the last budget, or the dependency rate for study aid. Unfortunately, Mr Lindtman, I believe that none of these issues is an individual answer to why the birth rate in Finland is falling. It is a question of greater uncertainty and changed hopes and expectations. And, Mr Lindtman, the best medicine for uncertainty, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u61	Mr President! At first the blues advertise that these index freezes of basic security will be cancelled, but now they are happy that they did not. The jacket's turned again. The government has made such a policy that, at first, there will be an absurd cut and then, now that the election year is coming, a small one will be put into day-care centres, for example. That is not enough when we know what the situation is in day-care centres. The Finns have suggested things that would save us a lot of money: For example, if this government fully implements the asylum policy action programme, where savings could be made for family reunification, for example. If we had genuinely fixed-term residence permits, savings could be made. Moreover, by taking these illegal people into custody, it would reduce the attraction factor and thus bring later savings. It doesn't save us any money that Sipilä's gonna call, that the Iraqis are gonna come here and get into his apartment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u62	Mr President! Of course, the debate here legalises that there is first talk of too few young Finns, and then we try to block the borders more strongly than before. His line here, too. As far as these are concerned, in particular this detention, which was discussed here in Parliament in Question Time earlier, would cost hundreds of millions of euros if this were introduced in the model previously proposed by the Finns. Indeed, it is not a austerity decision, it is a decision which is wasteful of state resources, an unnecessary decision at this stage, including an inhumane decision. As you know, the income limits for family reunification have been tightened. It has been a hard decision, a difficult human decision, but it has been precisely because the asylum system is not being used. At the moment, family reunification is not a central economic problem. With re-applications, negative decisions, returns, we work together on a broad front. Surely the majority in this House will share those views. There is nothing in it that these measures would help what you put forward. Those measures are not for the government's economy. What is much more important, for example, is that we attract work-related immigration, young people to work here, to study. It also tackles the problem, which has rightly been mentioned here, that we are facing a ten-year decline in the birth rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u63	One more supplementary question for this debate on spending limits decision. Congressman Adlercreuz.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u64	Irade the Talman! The basic Finns' proposal for detention is extremely imprudent and expensive, and I am delighted that Mr Mykkänen so vigorously rejected it. Thank you for that. There were concrete issues in the spending limits debate, such as 100 million more trials on freedom of choice in a situation where the bill is already in parliament, in a situation where they are not allowed to be carried out in the right economic frameworks. So, just as experts have said, some wasted money. There were also promises, including the safeguarding of regional funding. And as a New Zealander, this is extremely welcome, because we know here that in the first year we will face a shortfall of EUR 300 million. I would now like to make sure that this was a promise. This does mean, for example, that there is no EUR 300 million deficit for Uusimaa?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u65	Mr President! As I said before to Mr Räsänen, it has been extremely useful for us to have had close discussions and negotiations with all the provinces over the last few weeks — the Ministry of Finance also with the province of Uusimaa. I say in particular: With regard to the region of Uusimaa, the fact that the financing model that came here a year ago, which was prepared in 2016, does not take sufficient account, for example, of the population growth in the region of Uusimaa, and we must discuss it together and see what it is in 2020. And on that point, we have also stated, the other night in the government, that in the coming autumn we will have the opportunity to make a supplementary proposal to the Regional Finance Act, that it should be put in order. The second point relates to these costs of change, of which I have just said, i.e. the costs of ict-, space- and pay-harmonisation. There are certainly problems in all the provinces and they must be carefully addressed. Next fall, the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u66	A question from the central parliamentary group is asked by Mr Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u67	Madam President! Last Friday we were shocked to read a bulletin from the Ministry of the Interior on the transfer of the Crisis Management Centre in Kuopio to Helsinki or the Helsinki Metropolitan Area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u70	Mr President! Thank you for the question. The decision to transfer the CMC, i.e. the Crisis Management Centre, to the Ministry of the Interior, is on the table. This has been discussed both with the head of the Crisis Management Centre and, of course, with the head of the rescue training in the same context, with the head of the rescue school in advance. The ministers responsible for monitoring the government have been properly informed, and the chairman of the Regional Coordination Group has also been informed. In this situation, when we go to the AKR, the Regional Coordination Group, on 24 April, I think it is such a broad forum that it is perfectly natural and very typical for the Ministry to publish its policies at this stage. Of course, a formal formal decision will be taken at the Ministry once the opinion of the Regional Coordination Group has also been discussed at our disposal. 24.4. This opinion will be obtained from there and then a formal decision will be taken. As such, on this matter itself: This is a purely operational and tax-payer policy. Synergies of the Crisis Management Centre in the context of the Emergency College Unfortunately, no such thing has happened in Kuopio. Up to now, about half of the experts have been working remotely from elsewhere,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u71	Mr President! I must say, Minister, that your view is not correct. I would also like to ask why, in the Ministry of the Interior, since you became a new minister, the position has changed so strongly. Last year your predecessor considered that the Crisis Management Centre will remain and will be developed in Kuopio and that it will also be possible to continue network-based management, which is today's world. The operations of the Crisis Management Centre as an international operating unit from Kuopio have been excellent. The staff has just told me this. This change will now take place after the change of minister, and the whole administration will start to talk about two things: that now there is no operating conditions in the context of the Emergency College, where a great many actors in the region have invested very much in the development of civilian crisis management as a whole. Mr Mykkänen, I do not believe that your arguments are valid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u72	Mr President! Really, the decision is on my desk this spring, now. When I assess this, I cannot forgive myself if I do it on a different basis from the functional and taxpayer-friendly criteria. In this regard, too, if you look at the regional economy: when we happen to have a decision at the same time, which is the result of the formation of a regional government, that rescue training is no longer the responsibility of the municipalities, then the reverse is the case. I understand that Mr Rossi also believes that this is a proper policy of assembly, that this small separate training in Helsinki will be brought together in the context of a larger unit, i.e. Kuopio Emergency College, and that there will be synergies that work. Unfortunately, in the case of the crisis management centre, common training facilities have not been used, for example, but have been in Niinisalo, Santahamina, in connection with the police school, and it is an international activity in which this synergy will work much better when both units find themselves a better home functionally. That is why this decision is taken. Of course, it's political.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u73	One more question, Mr Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u74	Mr President! The Act on Freedom of Choice for Social and Regional Reform is due to be adopted in June. If and when the law proceeds, so-called freedom of choice pilots can start on 1 July. In the context of the spending limits debate, the budget allocated to the project was increased from EUR 100 million to EUR 200 million. In the pilot phase, the various elements of freedom of choice, social centres, oral care units will therefore be tested, [On the left: There was money for it!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u75	I think this is for Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u76	Mr President! Just as Mr Kauma said in his question, the government did indeed decide that the pilots of freedom of choice should be seen as a strong part of the phase-out in the implementation of the reform of the region. This was also what we were required to do last summer by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which required freedom of choice to enter into force gradually. This is the case with the law on freedom of choice legislation, which is staggered over various years, but pilots brought into the articles of the law are also part of this. And just as the questioner said, these applications really came from 18 provinces, including Uusimaa. It gives me a good impression that everywhere the reform is progressing and that it is also being translated into reality in the services of the citizens. According to my information, now that that deadline for applications has expired, Uusimaa submitted an application of EUR 67 million. Without taking a position, it must be clear that, in the whole of the amount allocated,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u77	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. We'll continue the spending limits discussion on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u78	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u79	Mr President! There are many things going on in the Nordic Council. Our delegation just yesterday came from Akureyri, Iceland, where a theme session was held on the subject of the sea. The sea and the marine environment are priorities for Nordic co-operation this year, while Norway holds the presidency of the Nordic Council. Norway’s objective is that the Nordic countries will jointly take forward the regulated and sustainable exploitation of marine resources. As Chairman of the Nordic Council for 2017... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u82	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Eerola, for a good proposal. I myself am a member of the Nordic Council delegation to Finland and its work in the Nordic Committee on Wellbeing and I will tell you a little bit about this new procedure, which was started this season. In other words, the committee was invited to a political dialogue in accordance with the new approach at a meeting of the Nordic Ministers for Social Affairs and Health in Oslo in November. Our delegation held a debate with ministers on the recommendation to extend the study on the risk of cancer related to the profession of firefighters and other professionals. I was the committee rapporteur on the recommendation. Unfortunately, the recommendation was not supported by the Council of Ministers on that occasion, but the political dialogue as a procedure was praised for its effectiveness. An evaluation will be carried out in the future of this new system, which will therefore include a political dialogue and a twelve-week response time for the Council of Ministers and the Government. As a member of the Parliamentary Defence Committee, I welcome the fact that the Nordic Council is dealing more and more with foreign, security and defence policy issues. In particular, there has been discussion of what the Nordic countries can do together during a troubled period, about uncertainty in the Baltic Sea region and about cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries. Strengthening the Nordic strategic partnership can improve Nordic security and make the Nordic voice more visible in international organisations. There is also the issue of more effective peace-keeping. Finland stressed the importance of Nordic foreign and security policy and defence policy in the Presidency programme. The Council plays an important role in bringing these issues forward and in how the Nordic countries can cooperate more in these sectors. I consider the activity report to be appropriate and good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u83	Mr President, Fru talman! As was clear from this statement by the chairman of the delegation, Mr Eerola, the Nordic Council's report contains a wide range of issues and could talk about anything. Whenever we talk about the Nordic countries, I think it is important that we also remind ourselves that it is not only about organisations and policies but also about values and principles — a broad welfare society, public services, democracy, the rule of law, equality, equality. Mr President! The Nordic Council is increasingly addressing foreign, security and defence policy issues. Over the past few years, these have been strongly involved in political and parliamentary cooperation between the Nordic countries. One of the most important Nordic debates on this subject in the past year was held here in Helsinki when President Martti, a peaceist In fact, Ahtisaari had a dialogue with the Nordic Council on this platform. During the Nordic Council plenary session last autumn. The message of Nobellist Ahtisaari to the Nordic decision-makers was very clear: ‘Yes, I say that the Nordic countries must use their special status. I very much hope that this Nordic cooperation on these issues of peace-keeping and peace negotiations will increase further.” We decided last year in the Nordic Council and have recommended to the Nordic governments that we should and will strengthen mediation as a Nordic trademark. We have encouraged Prime Ministers to include mediation and peace talks as a theme when we consider the role of the Nordic Region globally. We have also argued that a peace mediation archive will be set up in one of the Nordic countries, bringing together all the material related to mediation. In addition, we have decided and suggested to the governments that the Nordic countries should launch a higher education degree focusing on joint peace negotiations. And President Ahtisaari: He also reminded us why we have The Nordic countries have a different special position in this mediation process, not only in terms of historical results, but also in terms of their special status. He reminded us that mediation is about politics, psychology, equality, justice and a functioning society, that is, everything where we are. As the Nordic countries, we have succeeded. Mr President! I cannot fail to tell you: Our colleague, Mr Vanhanen, our former Prime Minister and long-term political actor, joined the Nordic Council delegation in Finland a few weeks ago and for the first time this week he was with us at the Nordic Council thematic session. I also interviewed our colleague, the former Prime Minister, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Old and asked him what his first impressions were of Nordic cooperation, the Nordic Council. His message was very clear: this is the political family in which we must act. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the report of the Finnish delegation to the Nordic Council last year, I would particularly like to record that last year, when Finland celebrated the 100th anniversary of its independence, it was thrilling to see how other Nordic parliaments and decision-makers wanted to participate in this celebration, and I believe that it has further strengthened the historic, very important and valuable link that we have between these countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u84	Madam President! As global instability grows, the Nordic countries are a good family to belong to. It is important to further deepen our cooperation, promote free movement and the labour market between our countries, increase cooperation in international arenas and work on peace. If we speak in the world with one mouth, our weight will be great. The Nordic countries are the first area of free movement where residents can move without a passport from one Nordic country to another. However, there are many border barriers between countries that prevent Nordics from living, working and studying in another Nordic country. A joint Nordic market also requires the removal of barriers to everyday life. Last year was the Finnish Presidency year and an important centenary year for 100-year-old Finland. The Nordic Council met at the main meeting of the year in Helsinki. At the meeting, we accepted the proposal that Nordic citizens should have common e-citizenship. It facilitates living and working in a neighbouring country. For example, without a personal identity code you cannot open a mobile phone subscription in Sweden, but when you have a common electronic personal identity code, it connects the data registers of our countries together like glue. Originally, the idea left Nordic citizenship at the initiative of the middle group, and it was processed as a presentation of e-citizenship at the meetings of the Welfare Committee. At the Helsinki meeting, I presented the report by the Committee on Skills and Culture on the removal of geoblocking. We propose that all economic and copyright issues be clarified in order to eliminate geoblocking. The issue is that the production of public television and public service broadcasters would be visible on the Internet throughout the Nordic Region. We could follow Swedish television news or the popular Skam series in Finland. An absolute condition is that artists be paid compensation for their work, so everyone benefits. Cultural exchanges between our countries and understanding of languages are improving. The language issue was also raised at the meeting. Thanks to the initiative of the Finnish and Icelandic delegations, our refusals in the Council's work have improved. An increasing proportion of the material is also translated into Icelandic and Finnish, and we can submit initiatives in our languages. The question of the official status of languages must be resolved at the Oslo meeting this year after the reports have been made. The President, Nobel Peace Prize winner Martti Ahtisaari inspired the Helsinki Conference with his speech. He told of the peace work and why the Nordic social model is the best in the world. He also recommended Finland to accede to the UN Treaty on Nuclear Weapons. The Group of the Greens is in favour of this. The Nordic Council has decided on a number of recommendations to be implemented in different countries. One of the recommendations is to ban the use of microplastics in cosmetics. Sweden will introduce a ban in summer — great. I require that the Finnish Government also submit a proposal for a ban on microplastics in cosmetics. Reducing the world's plastic waste requires action and political decisions. In environmental protection, Nordic cooperation is necessary. We must demand better protection and a ban on the use of fossil fuels for the Arctic. Four fifths of the known fossil fuel resources must be left on the ground when we want the world not to warm up by more than two degrees. It is madness to seek new oil and gas resources in the sensitive Arctic. Furthermore, shipping must be banned from using heavy fuel oil in the Arctic, because an oil accident would be disastrous for sensitive nature. I would like to highlight the importance of education and research. In the face of global megatrends, the Nordic countries offer solutions. For example, green technology, digitalisation and peace work to combat climate change are our strengths, and cooperation in research would benefit everyone. The new initiative of the Central Group on the Nordic Network University aims to increase the number of joint Master’s and Doctoral degrees. Increasing cooperation between universities would improve opportunities for interdisciplinary research and increase mobility of students and researchers. Mr President! The opportunities for Nordic cooperation are great. There are also challenges, such as increasing the common weight of EU policy. Nordic cooperation requires continuous work and its results benefit us all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u85	Madam President! This has also been the subject of a number of contributions to the Nordic countries' cooperation on foreign and security policy, which has, in fact, been highlighted in a significant way in recent years, and a great deal has also been written about it in this activity report. The change in security policy in the Baltic Sea environment, but also globally, was also reflected in the priorities of our Nordefco Presidency. At that time, situational awareness, enhanced interoperability and enhanced regional security were on the top of the list and highlighted. And now that Nordefco's ten-year history is behind us, we are looking forward, and I very much welcome the fact that these development needs have also been raised in a changed security policy situation. This report states that it is appropriate that Nordefco's vision for 2020 be updated to reflect the current security situation, and that the operation of Nordefco's structures will also be specified. Cybersecurity and also the peace mediation, of which Mr Feldt-Ranta spoke, are a major part. I also very much welcome the fact that we in the Nordic countries have a good tradition here and a lot of experts, both younger and older, more experienced politicians. This cooperation is definitely worth deepening and being a bridge builder, and that does not mean that we are not on the EU's common front. That is where we are, but it is worth using our special skills and skills and connections in bridge construction as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u86	Mr President! This Nordic Council activity report for 2017 has been interesting to read, but there are also problems in some areas, such as the Nordic free movement in the focus and the dismantling of its barriers. However, when this system was built in time, the world was very different. Since 2015, the influx of immigrants using the Finnish asylum system has been based on Nordic free movement. Of course, the current has decreased now, but it has not completely stopped. As obstacles decrease, weapons, drugs and so forth are also moving. Hopefully, the Nordic Council will also take into account the security factors of a changed Europe in its objectives in the coming years. It is great that, at last, during the reporting year, when Finland turned 100 years old, serious efforts have been made to correct the problem that the Finnish language has not been an official language in the Nordic Council. I believe that there has been unnecessary submissiveness on the part of previous Finnish delegations not to demand that this problem be corrected. On the other hand, the existence of this linguistic flaw may have revealed the attitude of other Nordic countries to the importance of the values of the Finnish language coming from a very different language family. The report states that the adoption of Finnish and Icelandic as working language was postponed to the 2018 session. I hope that's the last place we can get it right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u87	Madam President! In honor of Nordic cooperation, I saw a few words from the signatory. First of all, Nordic cooperation has a good, long tradition, and last year we were the presidency of the centenary year, which is a very commendable achievement, and we have brought up many good things. It should be remembered, however, that all the Nordic countries are Western democracies, so the framework for this cooperation is very rewarding and secure. In other words, all countries recognise democratic principles, have effective parliamentaryism and good democracy. So we have no problems with this. What separates us, of course, is this military-political, defence-political aspect. Norway is a NATO country, just like Denmark. Finland as a militarily non-aligned country, as well as Sweden, is walking its own path. Iceland is slightly separated, but it is also very much part of the Nordic partnership. I think Nordic cooperation is at its best when we respect these values and consider cooperation between nations important. I remember when, among other things, an EC agreement was concluded, in the '70s we lived then, there was a strong debate about whether the Nordic countries should have an original trade union or something like that. There were many speeches about this, and many Members of Parliament, many politicians spoke of it. That was all it was, but in retrospect, the Nordic countries would have been a great commercial community as such, because we are all Western democracies, and that would have given us a strong opportunity to cooperate well and strongly in the trade sector as well and to create a new standard of living throughout the Nordic region. But in the future it would be possible for us to be able to work much, much better with the Nordic countries in those Arctic regions. The Arctic regions will certainly be of increasing economic interest in the future. It is clear that the natural resources, natural gas resources, oil resources, metals, the various minerals that can be dug up there are certainly great riches, and that is why the Nordic countries themselves have their own say in these areas. Of course, we understand that Norway has the greatest importance in those areas, but, in spite of all that, Finland, as a northern country, has its own ambitions, the most important of which is that one day this rail link will be established on the Arctic shore, because it is absolutely certain that the sea route, the route once called the Northeast Passage, the Pacific Ocean or Japan, whatever the sea is called now, is certainly one day a well-functioning route. How, then, does our great Eastern neighbor view the matter? It must have its own objectives in relation to those regions too. In any case, this maritime route we need and then also connect to the sea through the north. It is the future, because Finland has huge ores, including large ore in Lapland, many, many opportunities to develop our own economy, as well as huge growth opportunities in the extractive industries. Of course there are other objectives, nature conservation objectives, indigenous peoples' objectives, etc., but nevertheless, in all development and development there have always been transport routes number one. We have been talking about the Northern Dimension for many, many years. I remember when Prime Minister Lipponen, in his own day, brought up this Northern Dimension, but unfortunately it is quite much at the level of the speech. I would like to see something happening here in the European Union, for example, to give the northern regions more real development money, whether they are through the TENs or what they are coming through, but, nevertheless, these northern transport routes should be put in place in this country. After all, I think it is a national shame that we still have this track to build. And then I would very much like to say in this context, since I have been able to speak and I am enthusiastic about the subject, that although it is not the most northern of Finland, we in this country should raise the issue of developing our own inland waterways as a means of developing this country so that we can build the Kymijoki Canal. It is the only safe way of transport for us in the decades and centuries to come. All the countries that have invested in the development of inland waterways have been successful and are doing better. It would be within our own borders, which would be a wonderful wealth for this nation. I hope that in future attention will be paid to these issues. I understand that when I mention the words ‘Kymijoki Canal’28the argument is raised against the fact that there are some substances in one of the river’s bends,but there are some substances in If the price of the project itself is now compared to the fine tunnel project in Tallinn, which I personally do not think is very fine, then the cost estimate for the Kymijoki Canal project is not 10 per cent of what this tunnel is in Tallinn, and it has many, many times the impact on the Finnish economy compared to any other transport project, even if bioenergy or products from the forest industry, the metal industry, tourism, anything. That is why, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that there is a great deal of cooperation in the Nordic countries. Many may even think of it with contempt, but I am one of those who see that Western democracies, the northern states, must cooperate, because democracy is a situation that is very difficult to get into, but once you have achieved it, it is worth talking about every day, even to the point of getting bored, because it is worth preserving under all circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u88	Mr President! Good speeches throughout this debate. Symphony as a whole. — Cooperation between the Nordic countries is something that it is good to evaluate as cooperation in a little different parts of civilization. I find it very difficult to find the same number of independent states in some part of the world, five in this case, where the differences between them are smaller than those between the Nordic countries, on the basis of the values that Mrs Feldt-Ranta referred to here, among other things. And when they seem to be values for which there should be greater demand in world and international politics, all the more reason to speak openly in favour of promoting this objective. The Nordic Council is doing invaluable work to further our mutual cooperation. There are many detailed samples here, too. It is a functioning system and must be given exceptionally strong, stable political support also from the direction of the Finnish Parliament. Another view for the strong development of mutual cooperation continues, the second argument for Nordic cooperation is the mutual presence of the Nordic countries outside their geographical area. Of course, it is essential, first and foremost, to coordinate joint actions within the framework of the European Union. Of course, the Baltics, the three Baltic countries, will also be involved in this as a third dimension, but of course the role of the coach is particularly important for the Nordic countries that are members of the European Union. But not only within the framework of the European Union, but, of course, the same method should also be introduced in other areas of international policy, particularly in a situation where multilateralism has been challenged and where respect for international treaty policy has come to a head. This kind of Nordic cooperation in international multilateral fora should have strong demand, and we certainly have the opportunity to have Nordic cooperation in this regard in a positive way. If a treaty-based international system, international law and multilateralism, including international organisations, gets into trouble, it is quite certain that it is, above all, dramatic for small, not power-oriented societies and states. The third point to which I want Nordic cooperation to be attached is precisely what Mrs Feldt-Ranta was talking about here in terms of mediation. We are probably in one of the best position to act in this respect as a guardian of things that are naturally subject to trust, without which mediation is not possible. President Ahtisaari's speech in this Chamber was raised in the light of the Nordic Council's formal sitting. There is nothing more to it than a positive incentive to put forward. We would like to see cooperation at the bottom of the Nordic Council, or some other institutional basis for moving peace mediation forward, including through research, which also referred to the possibilities of archiving and this kind of increase in human capital, that we are able to create a model for this at a time like this... Look now at Syria, look anywhere in the world, east or west — unless there is a need for mediation now, I do not know when then. In this sense, the common Nordic intellectual capital of mediation, as it were, combined between these countries, is something that I am also calling for. Mr President! The fourth point in which Nordic cooperation, particularly at parliamentary level — I would like to mention it — could also be a recipe, a method that could create stability and sustainable development in security areas which are also reasonably close to us: we know very well how much time of instability is currently being spent in Central Asia in countries which have had very many stages in their history and which may now have difficulty in finding a path of development that gives them the preconditions and opportunities for stable development. In an area where pressure is being exerted in a certain way in the direction of Kazakhstan and other countries around it from two directions, from Russia and from China, it would be desirable for these countries to have self-esteem in the future, the methods of strengthening their identity, the identity of which, of course, is represented in the Nordic countries. In the name of political realism, it may not be possible to move forward at intergovernmental level for the time being, but in this respect it is precisely a softer, more cautious, more general level, i.e. interparliamentary work on behalf of the Nordic Council, that could also be an opportunity to make the positive diplomatic services available to the international security community which the Nordic countries can provide and provide for such development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u89	Mr President! After the highlight of Mrs Kanerva’s symphony, it seems that there are still some notes to be picked up. Thank you all, very good speeches, Mr Hoskonen, very innovative too. As has been said here, foreign, security and defence policy issues too, I could say now, of course, are also part of the Nordic Council agenda. I therefore consider it a wise practice for the members of the Council presidency to meet regularly with the Prime Ministers of the Nordic countries, foreign ministers and ministers of Nordic cooperation at the Council meeting. There is a need for closer Nordic cooperation between developing ministers on issues related to the management of globalisation. The Nordic Council responded by inviting development ministers to its meeting on development issues. When I myself am a major in political science, and I am still reading for a while, development research, this is very welcome, and I find it a little surprising that why has this not already been addressed and focused. Mr President! Next, on the subject of cyber security, which was the subject of a meeting at the autumn meeting of the Council in Iceland: cyber and hybrid threats are permanent phenomena. We Finns should be a little proud that we now have an EU hybrid centre here in Helsinki. The Council is also active in cyber matters. The report states that it is important for the Council to contribute to security in the digital environment. I cannot help emphasising cooperation on cybersecurity issues: as in other areas of crime prevention, international cooperation is a lifeline. Mr President! It's not like politicians don't live well in this time. The theme of this year's 2018 Nordic Council of Ministers Swedish Presidency programme is an inclusive, innovative and secure Nordic Region. One priority is the concept of broad security and social security. We focus on developing cooperation between Nordic preparedness personnel, increasing civil security resources and combating radicalisation. Our Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, has set a fine example of this: he has travelled around different schools in Finland to speak against radicalisation. Cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism in the legal sector will be further developed. Trafficking in human beings, which I myself have studied in the world, is being combated by increasing cooperation with the Baltic countries. Mr President! A broad concept of security, inclusive Nordic and innovative sustainable development Nordic countries: these themes can only be supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u90	Madam President! It has been a pleasure to hear the report of the members of the Nordic Council on this last year, which is all the good things that have happened there. There is one point I would like to draw particular attention to. It is very important that defence and security issues have been discussed here in the Council, even though it was not the main theme of Finland last year. But in any case, security and defence are so important that they need to be dealt with between the Nordic countries. At the moment, we are making a strong contribution to EU defence cooperation, but we even have a longer tradition of this Nordic mutual defence cooperation in Nordefco's mark. I saw and noted from that activity report that Finland's head was visited both by the Minister of Defence, by the Commander of Defence and by the Director of the Security of Supply Centre at the beginning of the Finnish meeting. Common situation picture, interoperability, security of supply, logistical preparation and so on are the themes that have been discussed there. The fact that these themes are being addressed will certainly help us to take them in a common direction and to improve their mutual interaction and security in these matters. I also felt that now that this year has come, this security will become a stronger theme, and the Norwegian Presidency has even adopted it as its main theme, and defence and security issues will be dealt with even more, the Arctic region certainly and the Nordic countries as a whole. I would like to ask you who, in that delegation, will be affected by: At the moment, when a round table is held every year in the Nordic Council, a round table on foreign and security policy, could this perhaps be taken as its own committee in the future? Do you have this type of conversation? I think it would be a good thing if this were done on a regular basis, even on the committee's behalf.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u91	Madam President! Nordic cooperation is something that people in my age group may not really be able to appreciate enough, because it is so obvious: borders can be crossed, cooperation works, trust works. When everything works this way, it may not be appreciated enough. Appreciation will come when there are problems and we do not have a situation between the Nordic countries that these problems are now coming. A good example of this is the movement of the Norwegian military department along the Enonmaker's direction, which has become known a few days ago. Due to an obvious navigational error, the patrol strayed to Finland. Norway itself announced this and, of course, according to normal diplomatic practice, this matter will be clarified together, but this will not give rise to great emotions, because there is confidence in the background and belief that there is no hidden message in this matter. Mr Karimäki raised environmental issues here, talked about microplastics and how the Nordic Council has reacted. This is an important issue and we have also had it on various occasions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. This week, a record was made in the spending limits debate that the government has decided to investigate the introduction of a plastic tax. It's not quite a simple thing, but we're working on it. Of course, it's not exactly the same as this microplastic issue, but it's approaching the same problem field. The goal for the Nordic countries and globally must of course be that in 2050 there will be more fish in the seas than plastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u92	Värderade talman, Madam President! Det var trevligt att vara på Nordiska rådets session i början av veckan. Vi kom hem med den finska delegationen i går, och det var också roligt att se att den finska delegationen är mycket activ som hehet. Vi har ett bra samarbete i Nordiska rådet inom delegationen, och den vägen åstadkommer vi också en hel del saker, inte minst i debatterna i plenum och i våra utskott. Det är roligt att se den finländska activiteten.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u93	Mr President! It is not by chance that all five Nordic countries are generally at the top of the tens at the very least, when they put all the countries of the world in order in their various achievements, were concerned with equality, welfare, environmental protection, the lack of corruption, competitiveness and so on — all the Nordic countries are generally at the top ten. This is not only because we are democracies and the rule of law — it is not enough — but because we have been able to use the so-called Nordic model here, which is based on equality of all people, and at the very heart of it is gender equality, not only legal but also practical protection of women's participation. We are not perfect in this respect, there is still room for improvement here too, but all of us in the Nordic countries are in a better position than other countries in the world. Another basis for this Nordic model is the universal model, which means that all citizens, regardless of their background, are entitled to the same services organised by society, cultural, social and other services — without distinction. This has also meant that the Nordic countries are, in international comparison, the countries with the most equal distribution of wealth and income, and also that the problems of inequality here are less than elsewhere. It is clear that such a Nordic model... By the way, this name has not been invented in the Nordic countries, it has been the rest of the world, which has noted that The Nordic countries are such a separate group, but today, of course, The Nordic countries themselves have adopted this as a trademark and quite rightly are also prepared to share their own experiences with others who are interested in our relative success. And the Nordic Council has a role to play in this kind of promotion of the Nordic model and sharing of experiences. Of course, the Nordic countries face the same challenges as everyone else in the world. Globalisation is one of these. Not that the Nordic countries are unquestionably no part of the benefits of globalisation, but we are small open economies and have been able to make full use of the opportunities of globalisation. But while globalisation as a whole has meant a strong increase in prosperity and prosperity throughout the world, it has also created problems, one of which is that this growing wealth is often divided more unevenly in many countries and globally. By the way, it is also visible in the Nordic countries. As a result, globalisation has also been on the agenda of the Nordic Council and has been the subject of special sessions. There are perhaps two slightly different approaches to globalisation. I have noted that governments have more wanted to reflect and emphasise how the Nordic countries adapt to globalisation in order to continue their success, and that is, of course, the right and necessary approach. But, at the same time, parliamentarians have had a stronger focus on how the Nordic countries, together, can contribute to globalisation. When the Nordic countries work together, we will be able to exert a much stronger influence than our population alone would require, and this cooperation and the use of these opportunities must be continued. The second challenge is, of course, related to the tense international situation and the threats to security, of course, in such a way that the greatest security threat is an unsustainable development for all of us in the world, but also the traditional security threats have been raised more strongly. Even without them, the fact that The Nordic countries have also stepped up their cooperation in security and defence policy, it has been quite appropriate, and this should be continued, but of course this intensified international situation has also brought new dimensions to it. Cooperation will then focus, also in the Nordic Council initiatives most often, on preparing for different crisis situations and on the possibility that conflicts can be reflected and extended to the Nordic countries. This kind of preparation is reasonable and necessary in itself, but it is equally important that the Nordic countries make full use of their own potential to contribute to conflict prevention and conflict resolution, where the Nordic countries have a long tradition and good merit, and in this case the Nordic countries would make a strong contribution together, because those who speak in favour of serenity, break-down and peaceful cooperation and respect for the international legal order are not too much in the world and the Nordic countries are the natural leader of this group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u94	Madam President! Let me just say a few words about northern cooperation. The fact that Norway, Denmark and Iceland are NATO countries is, of course, one dimension for Nordic cooperation. Finland and Sweden are both militarily non-attached countries, working well together. But I do not think that this fact of belonging to two different camps is the problem, because all these countries, as the representative of the Court of Justice analysed in his excellent speech, are democratic states, which have a natural good cooperation, a common democratic tradition, a strong democracy and a welfare state and an open society, which creates the possibility that cooperation can continue undisturbed for decades to come. There's nothing unclear about that. But what separates us to some extent is an economic basis. From the Nordic countries, Finland is perhaps the one from which one can say that it has financial problems which, however, need a solution, and I think that we Finns should raise them more strongly than we have done so far. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, of course, it is not possible for us there to create some kind of trade or market in which we can do much better than we have done so far. I don't think that's possible. Norway as a Nordic country is so vastly wealthy and equipped with vast natural resources that it will survive for the next hundreds of years with mere savings. When you don't make terrible mistakes, I'm sure you'll be fine. Sweden too: a long history and a strong economy, huge reserves, it will manage. But I find Finland's position as a indebted Nordic country worrying, that separates us. Denmark is also a traditional country, where we can manage. It is very closed in the European market, where there is only a line between Germany and Denmark. A few cities came to the border between Denmark and Germany, and there was a difference in that way that when you walked across the street, there was Denmark, and then when you went across the street, you were in Germany. You can go for a beer on the German side and get a coffee on the Danish side, and the difference was 10 meters. In other words, Denmark is very close to the European market, and Iceland is doing very well there separately. Greenland, which belongs to Denmark, is an area of the future. We don't know what natural wealth there is. That has not been studied very much yet, but we know that there are already huge natural resources there. How, then, would they be repaired in the Arctic, I do not think anyone knows it at the moment, but there is a huge amount of natural resources there. In addition to Northern cooperation, Finland should pay attention to making use of these common funds through Europe so that we can at least get the transport networks in order. In connection with what I said earlier, possible grants for the Arctic and the Kymijoki Canal through the TENs would be the boost that this nation needs. It goes without saying that this market credit will not be able to pay these current debts, everyone knows that. If you don't believe what I'm saying, you might want to study the interest bill in the study. If the interest rate rises by 3 per cent and is this huge housing stock created by investment speculation, which has also been made in this city, and the rise in interest rates is where the debt repayment plus the additional capital paid through loans from housing companies towards housing companies, i.e. the debt payment through housing companies, will place a huge financial risk on private households in Finland and the risk to the entire national economy. It is such a huge amount of debt that it is no longer possible to control it without huge financial risks. That is why we should do everything we can to mobilise the resources of the whole country, and that is a job that requires the whole of Finland and the northern natural resources. Every reasonable person knows that the debt of billions is not paid by us trading on a stock market and succeeding in some area of gaming technology, or by selling a few telephones or telephone systems. They don't pay hundreds of billions of dollars, everyone knows that. But if we are to put the transport routes of this country, the nation, in order, we absolutely need northern cooperation, the support of the Nordic countries. In the European Union, for example, we need the support of Sweden and Denmark, of course. But then whether we can ever create this northern rail link or build the Kymijoki Canal — 80 per cent of the Finnish forest industry’s products would at that moment be in the area of the annual maritime route constantly, within its own borders, and what a huge opportunity for tourism to increase, quite enormous. It is such a huge change to the Finnish transport infrastructure that it has never been seen in this country before. What happens, for example, with regard to the Saimaa Canal, we do not know, but, in any case, more or less unstable conditions in our eastern neighbours always create a small risk factor from which we could thus be freed. Although there are no more MPs here, I have been a supporter of the Kymijoki Canal and the Finnish waterway all my life. If 80 per cent of Finland's forest industry today came into the transport of a year-round water route, we would win at that moment in the costs of the Swedish forest industry. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, when you go to various forest events or seminars organised by the forest industry, even now to SuomiAreena. Why don't you guys go listen to me? Congressman Kanerva has been active there. That's what I know. Why don't you go and listen to what the heads of the forest industry are saying at those parties: every other sentence is angry about the cost of transport. Then why are they blocking the construction of a cheap transport route? It is a mere market policy aimed at maintaining a monopoly on wood by a single buyer. But, as we know, monopolies in the market will never survive, that is clear. One day they'll break. This is why Finland should use this method of cooperation, through Nordic cooperation, to try to put our own transport routes in order, trunk routes, water routes and then, of course, the northern rail link. It's a life insurance policy worth paying for. We Finns always buy ourselves life insurance or health insurance so that if anything happens, we can secure our own future. But what is the Finnish State not going to do about it? If we count on it all that only Uusimaa will succeed and only Southern Finland will succeed, as I said just now, everyone in their study can begin to calculate how this work pays out with an increase in interest rates of 3%. There's no doubt that it's going to be a huge loss.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u95	Madam President! In addition to the security issue, it is important for the Nordic countries to renovate together on important issues where we can be strong, and mediation is one of them. In addition to stopping violence, we are able to create economic opportunities and political opportunities, and we also have experience, we have good people for that. It's a good idea to pool resources. As far as the common foreign policy is concerned, beyond the Nordic countries, it is good that the Nordic Council has discussed transatlantic relations very much in the White House. In fact, the Nordic countries seem to be watching as one group, and when these visits have been made, the Heads of State have visited them together. Discussions have also taken place with Russia. It is important to maintain a dialogue with Russia, even though times are a little challenging. But then China. As an emerging and already existing economic power, an increasing economic factor and a trading partner, I would also like to see more attention paid to it. Would the Nordic countries also be able to work together in that direction, with a common value base as well as with traders, because trade is also mirroring a greater role between the EU and China now that the trade war is lifting its head between the United States and China? Madam Speaker! One thing with regard to Mr Hoskose too: transport projects. They are important and I hope that the Green Corridor in the Central North will also be promoted in the Nordic Council. That means a transport route and a route for people from Trondheim through Umeå to Vaasa, Ähtäri, Jyväskylä, to the eastern border. We have a lot of opportunities for trade in the future, from the point of view of moving products, from the point of view of tourism and so on. I hope you keep this on the table. Among other things, the representative of Pirttilahti knows this route well,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u96	Madam President! First of all, we must thank Mr Eerola, our chairman, Mr Feldt-Ranta, and also our civil servants — Mari Lorden is here. I was reading from that cover to the cover, and I was watching that our officials' names might be missing here, did I have the correct interpretation? So we have good staff, we must first praise, on that 7th floor of the Small Parliament, and it organised our whole event very well — that is, last year Finland was the President of the Nordic Council — and all the meetings and other meetings of the presidency. Thank you very much for this to our civil service and Parliament. The events were well organized. A few withdrawals from Nordic cooperation with all of them: After all, we had a very busy year for Finland. We were in the presidency and we were very much involved in this joint approach — Tillsammans. There have been excellent speeches on this, as I heard from Erkki Tuomioja and others, and they have reported on this strong Nordic cooperation. In other words, a full-time year, and it was the same way that different things went forward in our work. I myself represent the middle groups in the Nordic Council, and one thing that was in the middle groups and perhaps in other groups was how we influence the EU as the Nordic countries and how we get more of this proactive grip together. If we take this LULUCF or RED II from this energy point of view, where we were a forested country, such as Sweden and Finland, strongly involved in the direction in which forests are used, as an example of how we could be more proactive in other matters, we managed to have a joint official and a joint EU office available to all the Nordic countries and all the parties and all the Nordic people over the last year. Matilda af Hällström was appointed, who has done an excellent job in it and has also maintained the Nordic perspective for the European Parliament. I'm going to pick up another Finn while I'm at it. Nordic energy cooperation is pretty far gone. We have a strong common electricity market, and it is also viewed internationally in what way it works. When you look at fingrid.fi and electricity market space on your mobile phone, you can see directly the whole electricity situation in the Nordic countries, which is the price of electricity and who produces electricity and where it goes. In other words, the Nordic countries have also contributed to this model when the EU has talked about its own energy integration and its own energy market. Jorma Ollila made an excellent report to us last year on this, and I really hope that the Ollila report will be taken forward at the starting points — I think there were more than a dozen points — and that we would step up cooperation further. In other words, in these climate and environmental areas, to which this energy is strongly linked, we should adopt an even sharper position and perhaps even a cooperation debate. All these Nordic issues, which we attend there in the Nordic Council, somehow thinly come here to our own committees in the Finnish Parliament as well. I myself have also tried to speak in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy about how we could get the proposals and discussions that have been made there – and this is great, now that we can discuss it, there may have been another opportunity this year – to summarise the fact that we have, for example, the Nordic initiatives that we raised to the table at the beginning of this week in Akureyr, for example, could also have a national debate on whether they are what they look like, what they feel like. From this I would raise the barriers to the borders of the Finnish programme, that is to say, the relationship we have with the EU, first of all, in relation to the previous one. Are we, at the same time, implementing the EU articles and directives in each national decision-making process, or are we, even after EU legislation, still making border barriers, especially between Sweden and Finland? However, quite a few other countries in the Nordic countries also make use of EU implementation and legislation. Are we creating border barriers with these own actions? Finland took the initiative. It has now been discussed and it is still being discussed, for example in our Committee on Growth and Development in Tornio, that we should have a national border committee, which looks through the various authorities, what kind of border barriers are coming to us from, for example, Kela or some other organisation. Finland 100 years old: It was an excellent party for us in different Nordic countries. I was allowed to attend the Oslo Festival and there to tell about Finnish and Norwegian energy cooperation. But before my performance, it was Morten Jentoft telling me what happened in 1918 — and I'm going to have a voice now, it was so impressive. He brought up a photograph of an execution scene from Western Finland, and I wondered why Jentoft did this. Well, the basis is that Norway sent two ambulance teams to Finland in 1918, and one came to Längelmäki and the other came to Imatra. Those ambulances helped the wounded and acted in this regard as regards health care. But one interesting thing about it is this present day: the Norwegian government wanted to put such intelligence forces in motion and see what the situation was then in 1918 in Finland. They reported carefully and described the situation, and this footage and reporting was used by this journalist Morten Jentoft, and he has now turned it into a book, which has been published about a month ago. At the moment it is Norwegian, but it can be read even with a slightly inferior Swedish skill — a very interesting book. I wanted to make this point that there has also been strong cooperation at that time. Well, then during World War II, the Finnish government also put an ambulance team in Norway, and the same thing: a little reconnaissance and action. But this footage, which is in this book, was to stop power. So there were good events in Finland 100. One thing that rose last year was this language issue. I am very happy for myself that we have been involved in this translation since the 1970s at these Nordic Council meetings and we have received material that comes in quite many languages. That if progress were made in this regard in the decisions that were taken in this Chamber, i.e. each country would receive those documents in its own language and in time and could submit documents in its own language, it would be a big step forward from now on. In other words, Finland and Iceland made this proposal. But thank you again for a good report. It is a very good illustration of what happened last year. I hope for the same success tillsammans will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u97	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Let's open a conversation. Chairman of the delegation, Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u98	Mr President! Indeed, the report of the Nordic Council delegation to Finland now goes to the report of the Council of Europe delegation to Finland. Mr President! Debates and debates at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are often a barometer story about the state of international politics. When a debate takes place in the Nordic Council in a very harmonious atmosphere, the Council of Europe is far from being the case. The formulation of speeches, the choice of subjects, the choice of words and rhetoric reflect a very general atmosphere and the attitude towards the world's problems, and it is very sad to say that the rhetoric used in the Council of Europe is tougher and that the confrontation is visible. The report of the Council of Europe’s Finnish delegation for 2017 begins with very gloomy sentences and statements: ‘After 65 years of activity,the Council of Europe faces serious internal and external challenges. “ It cannot be said more clearly that the organisation is in crisis. The values and principles of the Council of Europe, which are therefore also the values and principles of us Finns, are now under great pressure. There are many disputes in almost all areas of democracy, and the problems have in fact only escalated in 2018. And here I must say that it is not so bad that it may not be good too — or whether it is good now, because, at the end of this year, even this difficult situation in the Council of Europe will be resolved in a very concrete way, because in November of this year, Finland will be the chairman of the Committee of Ministers. Before going into those big problems, it is good to remember that when the Council of Europe was set up in 1949, Europe was very different. For 40 years, the Council of Europe was only an organisation for about half of European countries. Only the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of communism opened up the possibility of making the Council of Europe a genuine pan-European organisation. Today, 47 countries are involved at the level of the Committee of Ministers, but only 46 if active countries are included in the General Assembly. Indeed, Russia is currently working only at the level of the Committee of Ministers and has indicated that it is not going to pay its membership fee either. After all, the Council of Europe has the task of defending and safeguarding the rule of law, democracy and the fundamental rights of citizens in all its Member States, but also in many other countries. The history of the organisation is very well-known, and for a long time the organisation was a well-respected institution in support of democratic development and human rights, but global disintegration and unrest are also clearly reflected in the activities of the Council of Europe. Although all European countries swear to the name of democracy and human rights in solemn speeches, unfortunately the situation is different, and this is borne out by the statements and reports of the Council of Europe. The obligations have not been respected and the promises have not been kept. In other words, freedom of expression, the functioning of the media, the independence of the judiciary, the legal security of those who work for human rights in organisations, the growing inequality of people, the lack of equality — these are all issues that the Council of Europe committee meetings and the General Assembly are constantly raising, and yet there are countries that do not make up for it. The General Assembly of the Council of Europe will examine the situation in the countries both from a thematic point of view and on a country-by-country basis. There are 10 Member States on the agenda of the Assembly's Monitoring Committee, but the situation is worrying for many others. For example, when fundamental values of democracy are being challenged in EU countries such as Poland and Hungary, what is happening in Europe? At the same time, the basic requirements of the organization have also been challenged in a completely new way. I have already mentioned that Russia has refused to pay its membership fee, and Turkey has also wanted to reduce its current membership fee. Perhaps from Russia, a few words: In the spring of 2014, when the General Assembly condemned the Crimean occupation of Russia quite rightly and decided to limit the participation of the Russian parliamentary delegation in the General Assembly and the Committee’s activities — including Russia’s refusal to vote — Russia replied by announcing that it would be excluded from the activities of the General Assembly of that year, and the situation has continued until today, i.e. since 2014. There has been a desire to maintain dialogue, there has been a desire to make progress in the Ukraine crisis, there has been a desire to comply with the Minsk agreement, but we are in practice still in the pits of departure. In other words, Russia has not been involved in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for four years, and indeed now Russia has announced that it no longer wants to pay its membership fee. Of course, the Parliamentary Assembly itself will decide who or which parliamentary delegations will participate or who will be restricted, but there has been no lasting solution to this difficult stalemate that would also be suited to the values and traditions of this organisation. I myself, as a representative of Finland, have attended the first two meetings of the working group, i.e. the working group which has tried to find solutions to these problems I have mentioned, but the end result is now a complete mystery, which is where we are going to end up. It may well be that, for Russia, there is going to be some sort of exit, or there may be a miracle and progress, so that the Russian parliamentarians end up back in the General Assembly as equal members with representatives from other countries. But I must say that there is a special imbalance here as Russia, on the Committee of Ministers' side, continues its work like nothing, and the Russian parliamentarians, on the other hand, are unable to participate in the General Assembly's debate. Perhaps I would also hear the view of this Chamber. I will not extend this speech any further, perhaps these are the most difficult questions. In other words, the Council of Europe's economic situation seems very difficult. Finland will hold the Presidency at the end of this year. With regard to this very difficult economic situation, we must be able to resolve the situation: if Russia does not return and pay its membership fee and if Turkey pays a reduced membership fee, the balance of the economy lies ahead — what does that mean then for democracy, election observation, monitoring and all others, such as the European Court of Human Rights and its resources? This is a very difficult time ahead of us. Finally, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe has acted as a very active defender of human rights, advocate of democracy and defender of the rule of law. It is a pleasure to say that Finland is on the right side of history in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u99	Mr President! Reading the report, it is nice to note that immigration and the refugee situation have been recognised at the Council of Europe level and that this phenomenon is even at the heart of it. However, I believe that there are clearly challenges in identifying the seriousness of this phenomenon on the basis of the report. The report mentions, for example, the June session in which the Swedish Ministry of Justice and Immigration was presenting their ways of managing the phenomenon, and they suggested raising refugee quotas and calling on others to do the same. The debate at European level still seems to confuse oatmeals and vellets with one another a great deal when it comes to climate refugees, the human smuggling business in the Mediterranean and, by the way, the migration of young people seeking a better life and of little older men in the same context and in the same way. It is worrying that the government of Sweden, no more than many other countries, does not understand that the number of quota refugees in no way eliminates the problem that Europe faced already in 2015 and, to a small extent, Norway and Finland from the Russian side. On the basis of this report, the Council's understanding and the means to manage this and to react to such migrations and to the increasing terrorism that will take place in the future are extremely limited. At the thought level, immigration is still seen as a resource that promotes economic growth, solves the problems of the ageing European population and maintains prosperity. However, this kind of immigration towards us is not currently in the process of being directed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u100	Madam President! However, for the sake of safety, I am speaking about the toilet, because of course I am not giving any written speech, and can you say that I am not even giving a very well-thought-out speech, but because the chairman of the delegation, in his speech on the subject, challenged so much to think about fundamental matters for the Council of Europe, especially in a situation where Finland is going to be a presidency in the near future, perhaps even with its own reservations, it is appropriate to reflect out loud on the political dilemma which is undoubtedly involved in this matter at the moment. It is certainly quite hopeless to try to find a solution, as it were, to the instruments available to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with countries whose strategy will certainly be less affected by the Council of Europe's actions than the strategic vision which, in this case, Russia and, in part, Turkey have for the work of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe does not have the powers to solve these hot issues with the resources of the Council of Europe, and that is why, of course, as actors, as sectors, these countries themselves, and their behaviour is, of course, motivated by the political will of those countries, and the political will at present is that they do not want to support the political objectives, objectives and policies represented by the Council of Europe through its own measures, such as those mentioned by Mr Guzenina in connection with the annexation of Crimea and ongoing operations in relation to the region of Donbass in Eastern Ukraine. It would now be missing that because of this threatening situation, or indeed not because of the impending situation, but because of the prevailing situation, these principles of the Council of Europe are being abandoned. Of course, this is completely impossible in the light of the principles of European cultural values, fundamental values, which were also referred to in that statement by the chairman of the delegation. I'll take my chances. I take the risk of speaking, and I do not want to be the champion in any way, but I am taking a point of view, and that is that the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe have a considerable amount of the same agenda, particularly with regard to the promotion of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, e.g. election observation and operations of this kind, very much the same thing. We work in the same fields at the same time and with each other, as partners, but also on top of each other. I have sometimes wondered whether it would be possible for the Council of Europe to have 47, whether the Member States, the OSCE 58 are involved, and therefore, of course, there is another basis for participation, and the legal basis does not go together in this way either — so the Finnish delegation or its management would consider the question of whether these two organisations would sit down at the same table to see whether there would be any new division of labour between them, a division of labour, which would facilitate the progress of the Council of Europe, without giving up one millimetre of the principles and values on which its activities are based but which, in fact, the same values, represent the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe — with the same values and equally strictness — and so that the Council of Europe, and now I am going to the weakest, would focus on strengthening the legal basis in our civilisation and the OSCE on these values that have just been mentioned. I really do not know — and this is a purely ‘convincing’ of the ‘Havukka’s mind’ — whether a bird like this should fly,but should it not be impossible to test,and I am thinking that the Finnish delegation to the European Security and Cooperation Conference will say that — could test the possibility of such a question with Finnish members of the Finnish EN delegation, sparring, which could trigger this stalemate which, unfortunately, currently exists in the Council of Europe and makes its operation less effective, contrary to the value that Council of Europe certainly deserves. It remains to be seen whether Finland has any exits on the basis of an exit that is building the exits from this stalemate that we are currently in.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u101	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Mr Guzenina, who spoke in this debate, went through some of that Russian debate at the end. I personally welcome the fact that, at least so far in this Chamber, there have been no speeches suggesting that Finland should relax these sanctions towards Russia. The representative, Mr Guzenina, explained how in 2014, or some four years ago, these measures have begun after Russia took over one part of the sovereign state, namely Crimea, and in fact these events and these consequences are still on the table. In my opinion, the most important thing is that the unity and security of Europe be maintained and, in fact, that is the most important task of this institution as a whole. And that is why it is important for unity and a common policy towards Russia to work here as well as at the level of the European Union. This report states that the dialogue with Russia has been maintained, but then Ukraine and Lithuania, for example, have pointed out that the door is open to Russia only if Russia respects the terms of the decisions of the General Assembly. The President-in-Office, Mr Guzenina, pointed out that the only way would be for a miracle to happen. You didn't tell me exactly what could be such a miracle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u104	Mr President! Mr Kanerva, I listened to your speech very carefully. You always speak wisely, and so do you now. It is true that we need to find new ways to act, and now that Finland takes the Presidency at the end of this year, we must be able to discuss all kinds of development measures, including deepening cooperation with the OSCE. For example, the European Court of Human Rights itself is an institution of enormous value and its future must be safeguarded. The current economic problems of the Council of Europe have also cast their shadow over its activities. And Mr Heinonen, always so constructively speaking, so do you here. It is in this way that we cannot compromise the values within which we operate. The Nordic Council is a good example of the way in which we aim to uphold Nordic values, to work together in the Council of Europe. European values also play an enormous role in the way our continent is moving towards the future. And when cracks start to appear, you have to take those cracks seriously. For many years now, the cracks have deepened. When the cracks deepen, the glass will eventually break, and we cannot afford that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u105	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Let's open a conversation. Mr Paloniemi, Chairman of the delegation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u106	Madam President! First of all, I would like to take up this point made by Mrs Kanerva in her speech, which Mrs Guzenina has already commented on. Our delegation is never against development. Of course, we should sit down and discuss these matters. Ensuring the security of the people and citizens is a priority for political decision-makers. Safety is a very broad concept. Security and a sense of security consist of many things. It is concrete and emotional, it involves anticipation, preparation, rapid action in unexpected situations and much more, if necessary. Proper action requires information and monitoring of international policy. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe offers a good opportunity for this work. The OSCE has opted for a comprehensive approach to security, including both so-called "hard security" and "soft security components", i.e. so-called "democratic security". This is one of the main features of the OSCE. The second main feature relates to the membership base of the organisation. The debate and activities on European security involve not only all European countries, but also Canada and the USA and the countries of Central Asia, which are of course not European countries but whose activities affect European security. This is the context in which the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly also operates. Mr President! The General Assembly shall meet three times a year in plenary session. These meetings will discuss almost all aspects of European security. We are all familiar with security policy challenges in the OSCE region: prolonged conflicts, the Ukraine crisis, the challenges of democracy and the rule of law, and the defence of human rights in crisis situations. Most of the conflicts have been triggered for a long time by human rights violations, undemocratic regimes and people’s experience that the judicial system does not protect them from arbitrary interference. I myself have said on several occasions that there will be no lasting peace without respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Mr President! Last year, the OSCE session was held in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. The situation of democracy and human rights in Belarus is not good, as we know. President Lukashenko succeeded well in organising the sitting, and the meeting gave him the opportunity to defend his own views. At the same time, the sitting provided an opportunity for us parliamentarians to see and experience, at least to some extent, a Belarusian reality. Of course, much more than Belarus was discussed at the Minsk session: the restoration of the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the fight against terrorism, cyber security, refugee flows, energy security and the abolition of the death penalty. Finland's initiative to promote inclusive and inclusive mediation was unanimously adopted, which was a great thing. Finland has always had a strong position and role in the OSCE, including in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The Finnish delegation has consistently sought to make use of the OSCE General Assembly's arena to raise issues of importance to Finland as well. Last year we organised side-events on both mediation and the rights of disabled people together with ODIHR. A non-discriminatory society is in the interests of all, and of course it contributes to democratic security. This year we will organise a similar accompanying event on freedom of expression and the safety of journalists in connection with the summer session in Berlin. Freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are under threat in these times and in many places also in Europe. Mr President! Ilkka Kanerva held the excellent chair of the General Assembly for two years and is currently the Emeritus Chairman and the General Assembly's Special Representative for Mediation. This offers us an excellent opportunity to highlight the strengths, themes and expertise of Finland's foreign policy. Heather has the full support of the Finnish delegation, and other members of the delegation want to complement this work with their own strengths. Our common view is that we need to invest more in dialogue at different levels, both at national and inter-aggregate level, because it is precisely this dialogue that has become an increasingly important instrument for conflict prevention and resolution. In addition, it is important to remember that equality and accessibility in education are important steps on the road to social stability and well-being. These issues are also at the heart of Finland’s foreign policy line. In my own action, I have highlighted the role of women in political decision-making and have proposed, among other things, the establishment of a women's network in the general assembly. It has been a pleasure to note that Foreign Minister Timo Soini emphasises in the Finnish action programme Women, Peace and Security for the years 2018 to 2021 the objectives of strengthening the role and decision-making powers of women in conflict prevention and resolution and peace building. The focus of the action programme is, among other things, on peace processes and crisis management. Mr President! Election observation remains one of the most important operational activities of the OSCE General Assembly. Last year the General Assembly sent delegations to observe the parliamentary elections in Armenia, Albania and Germany, as well as the presidential elections in Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan. It is therefore noteworthy that delegations will no longer be sent exclusively to the east. Last year observers were sent to Germany and this year to Italy. This year the General Assembly also monitored the presidential elections in Russia, in which Mr Kanerva and Mr Kivelä were involved. Of course, the final estimates vary, but a general finding could be that no country is perfect in this area either. However, free and fair elections are one of the important indicators of democracy. Finally, I would like to thank our entire OSCE delegation for their excellent active and good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u107	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Palonieme, for a good speech. This is exactly what he told me. I myself have been a member of the Finnish delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe for a couple of years now, and I consider it a very interesting and important piece of work. In the work of the delegation itself, I have considered sustainable peace, its development, to be an important value. It is important to create a comprehensive understanding of the security environment in which it operates. The delegation has stressed in its statements that the rule of law includes respect for international commitments such as the OSCE and the UN Charter. All activities are based on fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. The delegation also considers that dialogue is of particular importance for the strengthening of peace. In an unstable world situation, dialogue must be focused at both national and international level. Conflict prevention and resolution are possible through increased dialogue. I can tell you from my own experience. I had the opportunity to spend a couple of years in the office of the UN Deputy Secretary-General in Gaza during the so-called Oslo Accords 1995-1997, and I was closer than any other Finnish to follow the progress of the dialogue between Israel and the Palestinians. It was very close to actually getting something done, but then it went a bit wrong because of some elections — but that's another thing, I'm not going to tell you any more about it. But Terje Rød-Larsen reminds me in many ways of Ilkka Kanerva, who is a very good politician and a brilliant human companion. Thank you very much for that. The resolution of the Political Committee addresses almost all of the OSCE's ongoing challenges, such as cyber threats, terrorism, violent extremism, Ukraine's instability, the situation in Turkey and prolonged conflicts. The resolution makes recommendations for resolving conflicts and challenges and encourages the use of all existing OSCE tools to reduce risk. At the same time, the General Assembly also encourages the participating countries to address the root causes of migration, strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings and calls for the punishment of those involved in trafficking in human beings to be tightened up, and that is good. This is a huge problem. The General Assembly continues to consider it important that countries by means of legislation prevent and refrain from funding terrorism and encourages the OSCE Participating States to take action to combat terrorism, including through the Internet and social media. Furthermore, the proposal to set up a Committee on the fight against terrorism, which was included in the resolution, was implemented at the Minsk meeting mentioned earlier by Mr Paloniemi last year. The delegation participated in several election observation missions. I was in on it myself, as I recall, in three. The OSCE countries' common understanding of human rights, democracy and the rule of law is an integral part of free elections, which is self-evident to us in Finland, but which is not always self-evident, unfortunately. Under it, the participating countries invite representatives of the OSCE Member States to monitor the elections. The election observation examines the functioning of the electoral system, the different stages of the election delivery from the perspective of democratic implementation. I'm going to talk a little bit more about this surveillance, if not everyone is familiar with it. Over the years, surveillance has changed. Before election fraud often took place on election day, today it has shifted to time before election and campaigning. That is why OSCE election observation missions will be sent to all Member States as necessary — as I mentioned here, including Germany and Italy. They also monitor registration, the functioning of electoral commissions, electoral laws and campaigns. Work has also begun to develop monitoring. Free elections require free society and media. This will not only be achieved by observing the elections, but will require a continuous process in cooperation with the country under observation. Well, I can give you an example — and Mrs Paloniemi has already mentioned these where we have been — that I myself was monitoring the parliamentary elections in Armenia in 2017. Serzh Sargsjan's right-wing extremist party won and received about 49 percent of the votes cast and 58 seats. At the time, it was estimated that the elections had been technically successful, most of which met the conditions for free elections. However, the electoral process was tarnished by some credible evidence of buying votes and intimidation of voters. This problem, which has been going on for years, undermines the faith of voters in the electoral system, even though the election day itself was peaceful. In many countries, positive developments in the organisation of genuine democratic and free elections were observed in their electoral arrangements and in their election results. There are still concerns, for example, regarding the purchase of votes and misappropriation of administrative resources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u108	Mr President! Perhaps the most interesting and valuable contribution to this report from the Finnish delegation was precisely this election observation activity, which, with regard to the report, focused on these elections in Armenia, Albania, Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan, and in particular on the German Bundestag elections, which, from the perspective of us Finns, are perhaps the most interesting of these and the most relevant of them for Europe, in the sense of the continent as a whole. According to the report, outside interference and cyber attacks had been detected during the campaign for the German elections, but these did not directly affect the election results. This now sounds like a very general account. In general, the narrative presented in the media for such activities has been that the external influence would be an important factor in the election results of European or American democracies. These claims are easily made, but the evidence has generally been somewhat more silent. In my opinion, these sound more like conspiracy theories for security policy enthusiasts. Today, in a period of digitalisation, of course, there are a variety of people who are trying to influence the progress of these things from the outside and the inside. However, is this dissemination of so-called disinformation much different from what the EU itself does when it has the funding to disseminate pro-European communication in the various Member States so that people choose pro-integration representatives and governments in elections? For example, US President Obama was actively campaigning against Brexit in Britain before the vote. Isn't that an influence on the election? Is it now the case that only those elections were influenced which, in the opinion of the global elite, were wrongly voted?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u109	Madam President! The European Security and Cooperation Conference in Finland in 75 C.E. was the European key to finding common, symbolically speaking, transport rules on how to live in Europe, the policies to be followed, what commitments are sacred and what values form the basis. All this thinking, all this philosophy, was not only part of Finland's foreign policy, but also served to strengthen Finland's position as a strong, independent, sovereign Western state capable of hosting the interrelationships between the East and the West as a process. It was transformed into the 1990s from the European Security and Cooperation Conference to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In other words, the agreement reached between all the countries that signed the ETC in 75 C.E. meant such a significant value base that it was considered justified also to create a common organisation which, as it were, with a more stable, stronger, more solid approach, is able to safeguard the fundamental values which are of course important, particularly in the case of small countries, such as Finland. So the rules of the game, the transport systems, according to which Europe operates and that peace, development and stability can be secured, were set up in three baskets in pieces. Today, unfortunately, that development is on the rocks. Today we know how the takeover of Crimea by Russia, some four years ago, depressed our minds about the positive development we had, of course, mainly after the fall of the Berlin Wall, but which had already been hit by the war in Georgia in 2008. This violation of the territorial integrity of East Ukraine has also led to the development of great uncertainty and violations of the OSCE principles in the last four years. There must be an absolute red line to the violation of territorial integrity — for what could be said to be such that even historical or cultural reasons could be so powerful that the rights of an independent state can be interfered with by another state by means of a power policy? That's not possible. This is not possible in the case of Ukraine or any other country. But not only this, not only this path of development, but also cybersecurity, such as terrorism and international crime, are all issues that challenge our civilisation at the moment. That is why we need to look at the opportunities which, however, could continue to manage development and bring about a better direction for multinational, multilateral organisations, so that trust and cooperation work and that parliamentary bodies too have their own contribution to make in this case. My own view is that mediation is an important issue here. In broad terms, mediation provides a tool to influence these issues. Sustainable peace, sustainable development, peace and stability are the things that guarantee a secure future for both people and countries, and there is currently a deficit above all, as Mrs Paloniemi said, among other things, in the light of a broad concept of security, assessed, weighed and analysed. That is why dialogue is always a better way than conflict, and there will be no lasting peace without respect for human rights and the various types of mediation measures, which are a huge scale of things. The peacekeeping mission is the most concrete and last resort, but there is also room for further progress today in the situation in Ukraine. I will not interfere with the elections this time, even if there is much to report on, as I was conducting the election observation in the presidential elections in the United States and also the election observation in Russia, which both elections did not give a very convincing picture of how democracy de facto works. It is part of democracy that there is a difference of opinion. It is a characteristic of an evolving and strong democracy that there may be a controlled, controlled difference of opinion on matters, but if disagreements, power politics and interests in the implementation of a power policy threaten peace and stability, it is clear that at the same time the parties to the dispute must try to get at the same table, in the same room to talk about the same things, and to find common human solutions to those problems and to identify these problems in a way that can peacefully seek common solutions. That is why Finland's contribution to the European Security Cooperation Conference has now been channelled in such a way that, above all, the issues of mediation are a priority, in any way, without putting, for example, very important electoral observation missions in a secondary role, but where the greatest pressure is of course today, there is undoubtedly a variety of evidence of mediation. In it, too, Finland's reputation so that women are strongly involved in the promotion of mediation is an invaluable advantage for us in the field, and in this respect I hope that the whole Finnish Parliament understands the importance of mediation for a small nation and the structural development of our entire security environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u110	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, I took part in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, a little informally and perhaps more formally, the committee discussed how it would be wise for Finland to prepare for the 40th anniversary of the OSCE in 2015. I remember that it was a bit of a question of what the role of the OSCE is in these times when situations have evolved as they have been and are this European Union and all its security and cooperation activities. But then what happened in Ukraine, first in Ukraine and then also in Russia there in Ukraine, and suddenly it was clear to us that the importance of the OSCE will increase enormously, and that has also happened. The OSCE has become an extremely important forum for dialogue and for trying to maintain the contacts on which development can then be carried forward by political and diplomatic means. Mr President! As an alternate member of the delegation to the Assembly, I attended the Vienna Winter Conference this spring, and if you don't mind, I will refer to my experience there, even though this report now deals with what happened last year. The OSCE headquarters are located in Vienna, and the winter meeting is usually held there. Vienna is, after all, a European city, one of those cities which, on the one hand, have a gloriously handsome history over a long period of time and, on the other hand, a very shocking experience of drifting under Nazi rule, under dictatorial rule, with World War II. As the city of Vienna, you know how sweet it is to have an era of peace and prosperity, how wonderful life can then be, and then, on the other hand, Vienna, that great city, knows how terrible it can be to have a war out of dictatorship with its ambitions for enlargement. Vienna knows this civilisation, and Vienna has this wisdom, and it is appropriate for the OSCE to meet there. At these international parliamentary meetings, with a lot of people and a lot of speeches, with very little concrete binding decisions — declarations and recommendations — there is always a risk that the people or individuals involved will feel that it makes any sense that we should travel and talk to each other and then go home. Frustration is always a danger at such meetings, but it is important, however, not to be frustrated but to think about the alternatives to such encounters. What is important is that parliamentarians from different countries meet, engage in dialogue, get to know each other, get to know each other personally, listen to each other’s speeches, perhaps review their own thinking, get the tools to increase understanding, mutual understanding, and thus, in important processes, the means to take things forward. So what's important is a meeting, a conversation and a dialogue. As long as there is dialogue, as long as there is interaction, discussion and listening, there is an opportunity for political and diplomatic solutions. Wars are born of impatience, a desire to make quick, even final, solutions to very difficult problems. Rarely, if ever, wars solve any problems. If one problem is solved, other problems arise — we have experience of this very recent past when we look at the world as a whole. Wars are born of impatience. That is why alternatives are needed, patience is needed, dialogue and debate are needed. There were strong views at the Vienna Winter Conference on the situation in Ukraine, different views, and also, as just another example, Turkey's withdrawal from the democratic system and concerns about the state of freedom of the press in Turkey, among other things, were strongly expressed in those speeches. It was significant that representatives of the Turkish opposition party were also there to speak critically about Turkey. Mr President! The OSCE should continue to be preserved as a forum where all Member States can be present and participate in dialogue and in the presentation of their own views from their own point of view. There must be room for this. So let no boycotts or similar acts defeat the OSCE’s ability to carry out this precious task. Let this institution be protected as a forum from which no one wants to stand aside and from which no one is excluded. Only by safeguarding this institution will the conditions be created for the joint establishment of the various peace mediation and security structures that the OSCE Emeritus President, Mr Kanerva, spoke of just now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u111	Madam President! In time, more than four decades ago, President Urho Kekkonen launched a European Security and Cooperation Conference here in Helsinki and has since become a major peace organisation in Europe. It is absolutely essential that we continue the strong work of this peace organisation so that democratic practices and respect for the dignity and integrity of other peoples continue to be more prominent than the desire of some to use force or other inappropriate means of cooperation between nations — they always fall behind, and we always place this democratic process and peaceful cooperation at the top of the list. What happened in Ukraine, what is happening in Turkey, what is happening in Syria at the moment, what is happening in the Baltic Sea, in many other places, are things that perhaps 20 years ago no one would have thought would happen. We've got them for today. In other words, when in 1975 Urho Kaleva Kekkonen started this process, there was still a divided world, a post-World War II era, when there were iron curtains and so forth, the Berlin Wall existed and so on. If someone had told me then and predicted what the world would be like in the year 2000, no one would have believed. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union and the fall of the Berlin Wall, Europe has changed its current appearance, but even since then we have not been allowed to live in the so-called stable time, but these new threats have gradually emerged. That is why the OSCE's work is still very valuable, and it is better for the nations to discuss at negotiating tables, meeting each other, developing cooperation opportunities still and still. It's the only way to move forward. This world is not built by force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u112	Madam President! I would just like to briefly mention the cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries, which is also part of this OSCE work. Meetings of the Nordic and Baltic delegations have already established their position and position, and three meetings were held in 2017. In its opinion on the 2016 report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament has noted the intensification and consolidation of cooperation as a very positive factor: ‘The Nordic and Baltiancountries can strengthen theirimpact on the wider internationalissues of the organisation’s activities. “ And this has also happened. I would like to thank you at this stage for your excellent contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u113	Madam President! Just now I forgot to mention — it occurred to me that Mr Hoskonen mentioned the 1975s — that there is going to be a little continuity in our family, namely that my father was then a policeman to secure this first meeting in Helsinki — I was looking at photographs that I found when I was cleaning up a little there. I hope that the OSCE will continue now and that my children will be involved at some point. I hope that the organization will develop. Otherwise, the organizations will die if they do not evolve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u114	Madam President! In that study, I listened to a valuable conversation, and I ran from that side of the Little Parliament to this side of the hall. Mr President! In particular, when I listened to Mr Kantola's speech here, before Mr Kanerva's speech, we must be grateful that we have representatives who see the whole and assess Finland's position in a very broad context that now looks at this world not only from the perspective of Finland but from the perspective of the whole. As many speakers here have said, among other things, about the situation in Syria and these disturbances at the moment, it is unquestionably necessary, as a member of the OSCE delegation, and also after a few of those meetings, to reflect on what such an organisation can do in the end during these crises. After all, is it the case that when it is a time of peace and peace, these organisations act and run and certainly do a lot of good development work, but what about when the crises come, how are they to be resolved? It seems that the UN, for example, is totally powerless at the moment to resolve the Syrian issue. At least as a citizen, why not as a Member of Parliament, you have to think about the fact that, when there has been a clear gas strike, there is no agreement at the UN on whether or not there has even been such an attack. And when the major powers, Russia and the United States at the top, then overturn each other's motions for resolutions, there will be no further progress. And I am not quite able to understand that if, in any case, someone has made that disastrous gas strike or any kind of blow, then it will be corrected by the fact that the other party will then make another blow. It certainly does not improve the position of Syrians and citizens. Of course, there are different regimes among themselves and also Isis and the civil war in the country and everything possible, there is an explanatory factor, but the great powers must also have their responsibilities. If with North Korea, as it were, it seems formally that there may even be a way of thinking together, then I cannot quite understand why the great powers are not able to find solutions. Smaller ones can't be given. Or is it that the arms industry wants to make new test fields and test things and see how, in the end, things are for that industry? It has sometimes been said that generals can often be annoyed — especially in some countries, probably not in Finland — when they are constantly working on a theory and are not allowed to test how things are going. Quite an interesting profession, when you think about it yourself, if you do not understand the deepest nature of the defence, that is to say, the preservation of peace in the right way. In the past, I can tell you that on the East German side, I must have been able to get to the books there when I made a speech in a youth debate that I find weapons from the East and the West just as dangerous. One person present, let the party stand without saying, said that he would report on me, on these speeches, and I said that I would be happy to see such a report go as far as possible, if that is relevant. So whether the weapons of the East or the West or anything are safer or more dangerous, these are big questions. In the end, the citizens are suffering. And what can the OSCE do in this situation? It's a tough place, isn't it? I can only imagine the next meeting. I am sure that during the OSCE summer meeting, Syria and all the problems that have already been mentioned here will be on the table, but will there then be a solution, and how will these be linked to the various governments and intergovernmental policies of the state? There is a need for that hope. This was at least when, after the Cold War in 1975, Finland was able to create this perspective under the leadership of Urho Kekkonen and with the help of many, when a new peace organisation was created in Europe and more widely, that it was new in the time. It inspired me to study foreign policy, too, really. But today, how interested is all of this, especially when you see that these great things are not moving in a positive direction but that people are suffering there at the end of the day? That is why I wanted to make this speech, Mr President, because somehow I just felt that things are going badly in the world. Of course, we are also arguing here in the Finnish Parliament about the everyday issues that are close to us, but we must also understand that the world situation is now moving in a very serious and bad direction. It's also kind of like a card game pecking that who always makes you better. I believe that every improvement must be able to be condemned by both the OSCE Group and the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u115	Mr President! Mr Ross's speech that weapons are equally dangerous, be it in anyone's hands, inspired me to mention only one observation of that account, namely that the OSCE is capable of doing so, and that its own actions can be seen in different directions, regardless of how these countries are positioned in these block systems. For example, the question of the death penalty and human rights in relation to it: there has been a strong call for the death penalty to be abolished, and we know that then the winds can be anything. That in the same way that these weapons are dangerous, come from any direction, the death penalty is just as flagrant a human rights problem, no matter where they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u116	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u117	Madam President! The functions of the Parliamentary Library are defined in the Act on the Library of Parliament and in more detail in the Statute. The library serves the Parliament in the same way as it does in its field of activity, acts as the central archive of Parliament and as a central library for the provision of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. As an open parliamentary library, the Library of Parliament plays an important role in the Finnish library network. The previous report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on the Library Report states: ‘In order to promote the functioning of democracy and, in particular, to raise it, there is a need for public and public information The Committee stresses the importance of practical educational cooperation with schools and educational institutions for the whole library institution.” This work was carried out in the Parliamentary Library during the reporting year, for example, by serving schoolchildren and student groups familiar with the library. In the reporting year, both a service survey targeted at representatives of the Parliament and a user survey addressed to all customers in the library were carried out. Both surveys showed that the library’s customers are very satisfied with the library’s services. In the user survey, the school grade given by customers to the library was 9. The development proposals received will be responded to, for example, by considering the requests for changes related to the opening hours of the library. This work is under preparation. In 2017, the implementation of the library service strategy for 2017-2020 began. The projects include a number of projects related to the development of online services. As one of these, the library took as its interface the Finna search service. The search service is modern in its layout and search features, and it connects the library materials to the national Finna search service. The activities of the Parliamentary Library were and will be increasingly focused on the development of parliamentary online services and the provision of high-quality online material, training, information packages and other content services. More attention will also be paid to graphic presentation and visuality. The year of independence was reflected in the library's activities. The library contributed to the event production by organising exhibitions and public lectures, and by providing a comprehensive information package on Parliament and Independence, which has been referred to in several media over the year. In the reporting year, the Veteran People's Memory Archive conducted 16 new interviews. In October 2016, in the Board of Directors of the Library, we decided that in the future we would also be able to interview seated MPs as a result of the researcher's judgement and with the permission of resources. The average length of interviews conducted is 6.5 hours. During the reporting year, the first interview with a Member of Parliament was conducted, and Ilkka Kanerva, the longest representative of our Parliament, was interviewed. Ilkka is here, and perhaps he may say something as an expert on the subject. Cooperation with the Central Library Oodi, which is under construction, has been prepared. Its aim is to serve both libraries and, of course, customers of both libraries in particular. At the end of 2017, 36 people worked in the Library of Parliament. During the reporting year, the librarian retired, and in autumn 2017, a new librarian was elected. 41 persons applied for the post, and the number and quality of candidates reflect the appreciation of the Library of Parliament as an institution and a workplace. Antti Virrankoski was appointed librarian from 1 January 2018. The library board met eight times during the year. Thank you to the staff of the Library of Parliament and the members of the Board for your valuable work for reliable information, transparency, freedom of expression, democracy and information literacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u118	Mr President! A brief reply. — — — — Indeed, in a similar context in the past, I have been emphasizing that it may be justified to try to get something out of the dinosaurs that may perhaps have more perspective on parliamentary work, parliamentaryism, than what could be obtained for a short period of time from a Member of Parliament. Indeed, as the chairman of the library board said, I have been interviewed. The interview side has been prepared excellently by the library. It's not done yet. We have only only spent eight hours now, so that the story is to continue, so the material will be quite extensive. But I would encourage the library to continue to take up the views of those whose path no one can today count but who might have something original to give to this history writing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u119	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The first library of Finland was founded in Vaasa in the late 1700s, 1794. Today there are less than 900 public libraries operating in Finland, and libraries are constantly changing. Some have probably already given them the death penalty on many occasions, that libraries will drown when books are reduced or moved to tablets or otherwise, but, on the other hand, the amount of information has increased enormously and this has also contributed to the renewal of libraries. I would like to begin by thanking the Government of the Library of Parliament and its chairman, Pauli Kiuru, and the Head of the Library of Parliament, Erika Bergström, for their good work, but also for the staff. At the time when I began as a young MP in Parliament, one of the tasks I was assigned to was the board of the library. It was a pleasant place as a teacher but also as a friend of libraries and an active user of libraries since childhood. It was then that the excellent staff of the house became familiar, and I looked with satisfaction at how last year, i.e. the year that this report dealt with, the library's long-standing librarian, Sari Pajula, received the Silver Schauman Medal. He did an excellent job as the long-term head of the library — now he has good retirement, strength and endurance! The library has an excellent new director and good staff to serve. I would like to underline that this library, even though it is called the Library of Parliament, is not in any way used solely by us as Members of Parliament, which means that it is not worth stopping after adaptation pensions just because the Members of Parliament have their own library, because this library is open to everyone. This is an excellent library, and many mornings, many days young people come to the library to do research, for example, and — now a hint is given to those who listen to parliamentary debates — quite often the exam books that have gone through other libraries, the Library of Parliament can be found, so it is also worth using this library in that sense. There I said that a lot of people have been in libraries many times already putting notes on the window, that books are decreasing, that libraries are not needed, and, in fact, even with a little sadness, I have listened to certain speeches from the administration, some of which have already planned other activities to replace the library. There will certainly be an order and a need for such a place in the future, and now with satisfaction I note that the number of visitors to the library has now turned up again. More new customers have also been registered to the Library of Parliament, most of them since 2010, and at the same time the number of active lenders has risen from the previous year. So you can say that libraries are not going to die, they are going to be renewed and, hopefully, they are also going through a new boom. The demand for long-distance services has also increased considerably, with an increase of as much as 12% from the previous year, and the library's total number of information service orders was also increasing from the previous year, with an increase of 12%. These are exceptional figures and, in fact, it seems that the change in the figures in the Library of Parliament was very much due to the fact that, as I recall, the library was closed for about a year, or even a year, due to the renovation. Of course, it had some effect on it, the clientele then looked for other libraries for use, but such a small moment went by when the Library of Parliament was re-found. In particular, I would like to express my thanks for the work of the Veteran MPs' Memory Archive, which I was also present at the Parliamentary Library at the time. At that time, the strength of the young MP was not sufficient to what the Triatlonist — a difficult word, a bit like Zyskowicz, but in the Minutes it comes right — Mr Kiuru was able to do. So now the Members of Parliament have also been interviewed in this memory information work and it was nice to hear that Mrs Kanerva, who has been a Member of Parliament for more than 15,000 days, has been the first of these Members of Parliament to have been interviewed. That average has been around 6 hours, and Kanerva told us that he has been interviewed for 8 hours now and is only in the 90s, i.e. will be very interesting, large material for future use by researchers. This has been very important for the Members of Parliament to be interviewed, because it seems to me that when others are here from one decade to the next — good — then it is very valuable that the ideas of these fellow Members should also be brought into this important database of researchers. I hope that Mrs Kääriäinen, Mrs Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, Mrs Zyskowicz, Mr Kääriäinen, without forgetting President Pekkar, and many others will come to this round of interviews as soon as possible. These interviews have already been used and, overall, more than 400 interviews have already been opened up for researchers. This is worth a lot of money. I would like to finish, Mr President, by encouraging everyone, not only the representatives and the people of Parliament, but also the people outside the house, to visit and thank them for these fine exhibitions in Parliament. Last year, when Finland was 100 years old, the Library of Parliament had seven large exhibitions. For example, ‘100vision—Nuclearness Declaration ‘exhibition’ was interesting, including ‘Supports from the Parliament’. Such fine collections are on display there, as well as the 150th anniversary exhibition of Miina Sillanpää from the Forssa Museum last year. Mr President! I wish the Library a good start and growth and success in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u120	Mr President! First of all, thank Mr Pauli Kiuru for his extensive review of the activities of the Library of Parliament in 2017, and in the same context also for his activities as Chairman of the Board of the Library of Parliament. The Library of Parliament has an honorable history and in fact longer than independent Finland. The library was founded during autonomy and was indeed open to the public since 1913. The Library of Parliament serves its customers especially as a source of social information, legal information and parliamentary information to which it specialises, and from the point of view of students and researchers in social sciences, for example, the Library of Parliament is able to offer a lot of information that may be difficult to find in traditional or university libraries, and this is something that many would also benefit from. Mr President! Unfortunately, it seems that the Library of Parliament has not been able to market itself to the public as well as it might have been possible in recent years. Despite its central location, lending and loan renewals from the Library of Parliament have clearly decreased compared with the beginning of the decade, and this may have reflected the general trend. But in recent years the fall in loan volumes has stopped and the mandates of the Parliamentary library's information service have also remained quite stable, which is of course positive. Nevertheless, I think it would be worthwhile to increase the marketing efforts of the Parliamentary Library, and cooperation with the graduating Central Library will also be important in the future. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that for decades the importance of the library for the rise in Finnish education and living standards has been undisputed, and in no case should this link be allowed to crumble in the future, and here, too, the Library of Parliament has its own important contribution to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u121	Madam President! The year of operation of the Parliamentary Library was again the year of changes. After the renovation of the Parliament House, the library returned to its own premises at its full capacity and the library’s ability to serve customers improved as the training and seminar space Aurora was made available. More than a thousand people participated in the training of the data acquisition. A separate training day was also held for Finnish libraries. The return migration also provided more space for various exhibitions and customer events. The space for customer stay also expanded. Another important issue is the development of online services, which is also reflected positively in customer service. The library took the Finna search service as its customer interface. It is modern in appearance and search features. It also brings the library's data into the national Finna search service. From the point of view of the person seeking information, one can now speak of a one - door service in one sense. In the report, Erika Bergström, who performed the post of Head of Library with merit and skill last year, states that the development of online services is a strategic objective of the Parliamentary Office. The library wants to implement that strategy. The third important issue was the election of a new librarian by the Parliamentary Commission of Offices at the end of last year. Antti Virrankoski has started his duties since the beginning of this year. The development of libraries inevitably reflects a technological change in the processing and storage of information. Many of us at home have a long line of encyclopedias purchased perhaps decades ago. The information printed on paper was worth a fortune until a moment ago. While I was studying, I myself remember buying a series of books, and then at the end of my studies I had about three feet of encyclopedia on my shelf. Now I'm wondering if you could use that space better, but they look great. So the information printed on paper was worth a fortune until a moment ago. Today it is difficult, if not impossible, to get these books traded or even free of charge into any antiquariat, so many of them are available. Few people want one in their homes on a bookshelf. The information can be found online either free of charge, as in the Wikipedia case, or behind a payment wall. Some of the information is also getting older faster and has another reason for alienating the printed repository. You can find the latest information online if you know how to retrieve it. In the Library of Parliament, this is reflected in a consistent reduction in quotes. I think that this is one of the reasons why book quotations are falling. Similarly, new book purchases will also be made more cautiously. The graphic picture of the story shows how the increase in the printed collection has been on a steady decline. Of course, the financial situation will also have an impact on this. The second development, how electronic data storage and transmission is taking on an ever stronger grip, is also visible in the parliamentary archives. The number of pages of electronic documents has doubled during the reporting year. Paper consumption is decreasing, which is good for the environment. The different information services of Parliament have become increasingly important for the work of the representative and parliamentary groups. The number of library information service assignments has increased by 12 per cent from previous years. According to the report, the challenge of requests for information has been increasing and more resources are being used to respond to them. The library serves. The library produces important information packages for the work of MPs on current legal projects. 16 such information packages were published last year. Mr President! The library's customers are satisfied with the library's services. The customer survey has been carried out both for representatives of the Parliament and for other users of the library. The rating given to the Library of Parliament is excellent. It is worth congratulating the library management and staff on their excellent grades and thanking them for the good work they have done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u122	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u123	Mr President! You can see from the mouth a person’s position in society. Often the needy cannot afford to care for their teeth. The differences in dental health between socio-economic groups are large in Finland. The Left Alliance has taken the initiative under discussion to moderate the fees for dental care customers and reduce the differences in dental health by including the fees for dental care clients in the health care ceiling. We believe that everyone should have access to the dental care they need, regardless of their wealth. Equality is not now realised in Finnish dental care. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the majority of Finns use dental care services reasonably often and regularly, but there are significant differences in access to treatment between social groups. Although Finnish oral health has improved in recent decades, according to the Dental Association, socio-economic differences are still greater than in other Nordic countries. In the lower socio-economic groups, oral health is lower and therefore the need for treatment is higher. However, higher socio-economic groups use dental care services more than lower groups than the need. The inequality of socio-economic groups in dental care is even greater than in most other primary health care services, and the main reason for this is the high price of dental care. At present, the patient’s ownership is high both in health centres and in private reception. Mr President! The initiative proposes Article 6 of the Act on Social and Health Care Client Fees ) to be amended to include in the cap on health care the payments of oral health care services in the health centre or in the private care provided by the municipality as a purchasing service. Unlike other public health services, dental visits do not add up to the annual health care ceiling, i.e. there is no upper limit to the annual dental fees that are appropriate from the patient’s point of view. In oral health care services, customer fees are considerably higher than in other health care services and customer fees collect significantly more of the cost of care than in other health care services. The majority of municipalities charge the maximum customer fees prescribed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This year the basic fees are EUR 10.20 when the treatment is given by a dental hygienist, up to EUR 13.10 when the treatment is given by a dentist, and up to EUR 19.20 when the treatment is given by a specialist dentist. However, this will be subject to different operating charges. For example, in the city of Oulu, the following charges are applied: EUR 18.90 for panoramic X-ray, EUR 222.70 for heavy prosthesis, EUR 8.40-77 for other measures. In addition, dental costs are charged, inter alia, for prosthetic works and orthodontizing equipment in accordance with the actual costs. Thus, the total amount of dental or oral treatment required may cost hundreds of euros, even more, over a year. For people on low incomes who require a lot of care, dental fees are often intolerable and delay or prevent access to treatment altogether. However, oral health affects the health of the whole body, and good oral and dental care is used to prevent and treat other diseases. Oral health is therefore a basic health service and it is not justified that the treatment of one part of the body and the cost of its treatment are a separate part of the healthcare system. Mr President! In a report commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the oral health care clearing team notes that the fees paid for oral health care are significantly different from those charged for other health care. In particular, when comparisons are made with the customer fees for outpatient care, the difference is considerable. According to the report, oral diseases have many implications for general health and well-being and care for oral health is particularly important for those who are more susceptible to infections due to their health, as the mouth is an infection port to the whole body. The Current Treatment Recommendation on the Treatment of Dental Infections states that the prevention and treatment of Dental Infections is important for the overall health of humans. According to the report, 62% of the needs for treatment requiring special care were covered, i.e. more than one in three patients requiring special oral treatment. According to the report, the main reasons for the lack of care are the lack of services and the fact that care is too expensive for a large proportion of the population. The report therefore recommends that investigation work be initiated in the field of oral health care on customer fees and their targeting in both primary and specialised care. The report also concludes that oral healthcare payment practices should be consistent with other healthcare charges. According to the report, consideration should be given to the consideration of oral health care payments in the municipal health care ceiling. Mr President! The inclusion of oral health care payments in the non-payment of health care would have a wide range of economic impacts, all of which are difficult to predict in advance. A recent report on this issue is not available, but, for example, from the 2009 THL study, it can be concluded that there are relatively few people who exceed the ceiling and are elderly and with a great deal of suffering. The number of people who exceeded the ceiling was also about three times higher than the average and good income. The payment income of municipalities and joint municipal boards lost as a result of the cap was estimated at around EUR 40 million at the time at the national level. Due to the lack of a recent study, it is impossible to accurately estimate the costs of a legislative initiative. The loss of customer income by municipalities could amount to some tens of millions of euros. If, with the cap, people with low and average income in particular would spend more on oral health care services, the provision of services should be increased in order to prevent long queues, which would also increase costs. Positive economic effects would be a reduction in income support expenditure and a reduction in the cost of other health care as people's health status improved. It is therefore very difficult to assess the overall economic impact in advance. However, customer income losses should be reimbursed to municipalities and municipalities responsible for central government finances after the social welfare reform. Mr President! The reform of social and health care proposed by the government is introducing part of basic oral health services into the so-called freedom of choice. This means that charges for services subject to freedom of choice are harmonised in public and private management. Since sickness insurance’s own funds are now even higher than municipal dental care’s customer fees, without significant additional public funding, there is a risk that the harmonisation of contributions will also result in further increases in public customer fees. Thus, the reform of social and health care will not, in its present form, solve the problems posed by the high cost of oral health care to the poor. Nor will the social welfare reform solve the problem addressed by the initiative, as the reform is not proposing the inclusion of dental care in the health insurance ceiling. So what we are proposing cannot be buried under the reform of social security, because it will not be resolved with the reform of social security. On the contrary, customer charges are threatening to rise as a result of the social security reform. Therefore, now would be a good time to remedy this problem and to include dental care in the health insurance ceiling. Mr President! Treatment of oral and dental diseases should be affordable for the patient and costs should not be an obstacle to anyone seeking treatment. High fees for dental care create inequalities in health, hamper the lives of the deprived and reduce public health. The initiative would not solve all the problems of dental care, as there are also problems with access to public dental care due to under-resourced services. In some places the lines are too long, and that is also a major problem. Public dental care needs more resources to provide services where necessary. However, the cost-effectiveness of dental care and, in particular, the effective accessibility of low-income, elderly and multi-diseased oral health care could be immediately improved through this initiative in a cost-effective way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-12-ps-34.u124	Madam President! Congressman Sarkkinen is on the right track. A lot can be drawn from the condition of the mouth, of the teeth, not only of socio-economic status — well, of course — but also of the health of the person in general. Dental, oral health is linked to many other diseases, and poorly treated teeth are a risk factor in many other matters. We were talking about customer fees. The second problem to which Mr Sarkkinen referred is the issue of the queue. And I understand that, at least, this is what is now improving through this social reform. From 2022 people will have the opportunity to make choices, go to private or public, and the prices will be evened out; the wallet alone will no longer determine who gets where, but the same services will be in use. Many cities have a waiting list of months, and six months is the norm that you can get treatment at all. I understand, however, that the situation is now in the future: if you cannot get to the public and have to wait in line, what is the alternative? Well, go private. And what is the difference between private and public prices in what this treatment will be in the future? I believe that this will make the difference more consumer-friendly, i.e. fewer queues and a levelling off of the price so that it is more accessible to all. So, I think we're going for the better. Customer vouchers will also come into use when more demanding treatments, prosthetics and orthodontic treatments are involved.
