ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u2	Mr President! I shall make a motion for amendment in accordance with protest 1 of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u4	Li Andersson, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u5	Mr President! I will table an amendment in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u6	Mr President! I support Mr Savio's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u7	Sami Savio, supported by Ritva Elomaa, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u8	Mr President! I shall make a motion for amendment in accordance with protest 1 of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u9	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u10	Li Andersson, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u11	Mr President! I will table an amendment in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u12	Mr President! I support Mr Savio's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u13	Sami Savio, supported by Ritva Elomaa, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u14	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 19/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u15	Mr President! I will make a proposal for a green amendment, which is in objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u16	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u17	With the support of Hanna Halmeenpää, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u18	Madam President! I object to section 8 of the amendment proposed in accordance with section 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u19	Mr President! I'm very much in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u20	Arja Juvonen, supported by Mr Juho Eerola, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 2
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u21	Mr President! I propose that Article 8 be read as follows: is adopted in accordance with protest 1 by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u22	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljunen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u23	President! I am going to table an amendment to Article 8 in accordance with protest 4 of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u24	Mr President! I support Mr Pekonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u25	Madam President! I will table an amendment tabled by the Greens, which is in objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u26	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u27	Mr President, värderade talman! I propose that the article be amended in accordance with objection 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u28	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u29	Mr President! I will table an amendment in accordance with our parliamentary group concerning section 8.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u30	Madam President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u31	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Kristina Salonen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1. With the support of Hanna Halmeenpää, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3. Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 4. Veronica Rehn-Kivi, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 5. With the support of Mr Sari Essayah, Mr Östman has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u32	The vote will take place first on the proposal by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto against the proposal by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, then on the proposal by Peter Östman. The vote on the winner of this vote will take place against Mrs Kiljunen's proposal and then against the vote on Mrs Rehn-Kive's proposal. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u33	Mr President! I propose that Article 35: is adopted in accordance with protest 1 by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u34	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u35	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Kristina Salonen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u36	Mr President! I propose that Article 51 is replaced by the is adopted in accordance with protest 1 by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u37	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u38	Mr President! I'm going to make a proposal in line with the Greens' amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u39	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u40	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Kristina Salonen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1. With the support of Krista Mikkonen, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u41	The vote will take place first on the proposal from Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto against Mrs Kiljunen's proposal and then on the vote against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u42	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 20/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u43	Mr President! I propose that Article 1 is adopted in accordance with protest 1 by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u44	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u45	Mr President! I'll make a motion to the effect that Article 1 is adopted in accordance with protest 4 of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u46	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u47	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Kristina Salonen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1. Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u48	The vote will take place first on Mrs Kiljunen's proposal against Mr Pekonen's proposal and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u49	President! I propose that Article 2 gets the form of opposition 4 from the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u50	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u51	Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u52	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 24/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u53	Mr President! I would like to suggest that this article takes the form of protests from the Social Democrats, the People's Party, the Greens and the Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u54	President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u55	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u56	Mr President! I would suggest that this article takes the form of a joint protest from the Social Democrats, the People's Party, the Left Alliance and the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u57	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u58	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u59	Mr President! I would like to suggest that this article takes the form of protests from the Social Democrats, the People's Party, the Greens and the Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u60	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u61	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u62	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2018. With the support of Mr Mats Löfström, Arja Juvonen has tabled two motions for statements in response to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u63	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u64	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2018 The debate, supported by Mrs Modig Riitta Myller, has been followed by three motions for statements under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u65	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u66	The 8th agenda is an up-to-date debate on the future development of the EU. After a five-minute speech by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, I give the floor to the chairman of the large committee, Arto Satonen, and to the representative of each parliamentary group. I will then give you the answers in the order that I am considering. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. A maximum of 2 hours will be allowed for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Over the past two years, we have received a short lesson from populism in Europe in finding answers to difficult and complex issues by simplifying matters. In Great Britain this was done, and the result is visible to everyone. Now we should learn from what happened. The European Union is not perfect; there is much to develop. But the benefits of the EU are so great that it is worth trying to fix the Union's problems. You don't want to throw your gloves on the counter like the most visible characters on the British exit side did. Concrete responses to the challenges facing the EU need to be found, [Left: Correct!] The agenda for tomorrow's European Council is heavy. We will discuss financial frameworks, EMU, migration, the internal market, Brexit and external relations. These are the key issues that are currently being addressed in Europe. All of these are also strongly linked to the themes of growth and security that we have highlighted. Growth and security are key themes when we have contributed to the five-year strategy of the Council to be decided in the spring and to the Presidency in the summer. In particular, the Finnish handprint will be visible in terms of growth in climate and environmental issues, the defence of free trade and the development of the internal market. With regard to security, I would like to highlight the fight against EU defence cooperation and hybrid influence. For both of us, we have been pioneers in joint development — the hybrid centre set up in Helsinki as a concrete example. On environmental issues, we have also looked for concrete measures, such as the afforestation programme in Africa and the opening up of the carbon exchange where the emitters pay and where the providers of solutions that remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere are paid for. At the end of November, too, the environment and free trade were strongly on the agenda of my visit to the United States. Regrettably, these meetings also made it clear that from the United States Europe will not have a partner in controlling climate change. When it comes to free trade, the ideas of the country's management are more divided. My message was, and the whole of the EU's message to the United States must be that free trade must be defended and the increase in customs duties is not a path for the benefit of either party. Mr President! The Government's objective is that Finland is a strong President, who is visible and whose voice is heard. We must have the sensitivity to hear everyone, to promote unity and thus to make joint decisions. It is also essential for Finland to protect the fundamental rights and values of the Union, respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. Finland must be a presidency that is not afraid to defend these values within the Union or in external relations. I will meet all my EU colleagues bilaterally before next April's elections. Between Friday's EU meeting and Monday's Africa meeting, I will visit Malta, Cyprus, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. I want to make sure that each Member State is aware of the objectives of our period. Although communication with colleagues is already very intensive and active, further activity will provide the basis for concrete results during the Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u68	Thank you. — The chairman of the large committee, Mr Satonen, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u69	Mr President! This debate could not be more up-to-date: a very important summit is ahead, and the Finnish Presidency is also near. The Presidency is a unique place to influence, because then the new Commission, the work programme of the new Commission and Finland can raise important issues for us and for Europe in their own Presidency programme. The European Union is an economic superpower, but its political influence must be strengthened. For a small country, such as Finland, the effectiveness of a rule-based system based on international institutions is central. We don't want a world where the great leaders make deals over us. If Europe is united, it will also be strong globally. The unity of the EU27 in Brexit has been commendable. There are many things that need to be resolved at European level. There is no need to make the European Union a federal state, but many things require common solutions. These include climate change mitigation, the fight against terrorism, strengthening internal security, immigration, promoting Africa's development, preparing for hybrid threats, trade policy and, for example, the inclusion of digital giants in taxation. No country can do this alone. During the Finnish Presidency, issues that are important for Finland should be raised, but also important for Europe as a whole. One such issue is the circular economy, where technology development and regulation can achieve a great deal. Finland can also export circular economy expertise to Europe. It is also important for us to have the Northern Dimension and to make use of the Arctic. Of course, there are important environmental issues, such as the fight against black coal, but there is also a lot of business opportunities through rail, road and telecommunications connections. Strengthening defence cooperation in the European Union is very important for Finland and it is good that it is now making strong progress. It is also important to promote the development of education and research at European level, and Finland is an excellent model country in this area. It is also important that human rights, the rule of law and equality play an important role. Finally, Mr President, the Brexit has shown that the European Union will be able to survive if a country leaves, but the country that leaves will not be able to survive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u70	The next item is group speeches. — Centre Party Parliamentary Group, representative Anttila, please, for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u71	Mr President! After Brexit, work will begin on the reform of the European Union. A common will on the future of the EU was enshrined in the Declaration of March 2017: focusing on the essential strengthening of the economy, employment and security. A united and capable Union with a clear road map to the future is best placed to respond to citizens' concerns and expectations. The EU's decision-making must be based on a citizen's perspective and decision-making in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. We need less bureaucracy but more concrete decisions that create growth and employment, strengthen European security and social integrity and strengthen the role of the Union as a responsible global player. Refugees are a global problem and can only be solved through international multilateral cooperation. In the area of refugees and immigration, as well as in the fight against terrorism, there is a need for common solutions in the Union. The Schengen system does not work and nor does it have a fair burden sharing within the Union. The European Union's common migration policy must be based on an integrated approach. It combines the root causes of refugees with proper control of the EU's external and internal borders. For Finland, membership of the Union has been a choice of values and a choice for security. Finland has been active in strengthening the internal and external security of the Union. Thank you very much to Prime Minister Sipilä for a well-managed European Union policy. Cooperation with EU colleagues is in order. This is what a small country does in the Union: networking, activity and initiative. Mr President! The core of the Union's activities is a functioning internal market. Europe's economy and employment are based on a stable economic and monetary policy. The Centre therefore believes that the economic and monetary union must be reformed on the basis of the Member States' own responsibility for their economic performance and compliance with the common rules of fiscal policy. The EU's multiannual financial frameworks must be set at the level at which the Union is able to cope with the objectives set. Investments in research, migration management, border control and defence are justified. The negotiations must safeguard Finland's overall benefit and finance the policy areas that are important for our country's net position. The cuts in agricultural and rural development proposed by the Commission must be combated, as they would jeopardise the profitability of northern agriculture, make it more difficult to protect the environment and combat climate change and weaken the conditions for producing healthy and safe food for Europeans. It is also important for Finland to safeguard the position of Northern and Eastern Finland in cohesion funding, taking into account the weaker GDP level of the regions, the low population density and long distances. Equally, we must take into account other national specificities, such as Northern Dimension policy, Arcticism and financing of Baltic Sea cooperation. As the EU Presidency, Finland has an excellent capacity to influence the Union's common policy on the basis of our own strengths. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u72	Mr President! Finland will be the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in July next year. Our period will take place in an important phase just after the European elections and, on the other hand, in a rather turbulent phase, if we look at individual Member States: In Italy, the government of the two populist parties has defied the European Commission by promising the people excessive financial advantages in terms of carrying capacity and by making a budget that is not in line with the rules agreed together. In France, the yellow vest demonstrations that started with the increase in fuel prices have expanded into a violent movement that shakes the whole country. In Germany, long-term power changes when Chancellor Merkel comes to transfer power to his successor. And let us not forget what happens in Britain when Prime Minister May, possibly at the end of January, brings an agreement negotiated with the EU to the vote in Parliament. The list could at least be added to Poland and Hungary, where the criteria for the rule of law and the division of power have been violated. Mr President! Although the stability of European countries is being tested — and perhaps that is why — Finland, as a future presidency, must stress the common value base for which the European Union has been created. This includes human and fundamental rights and commitment to the ideals of a free and democratic rule of law. This week the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights has turned 70. Just a few years before that declaration, peace in Europe seemed a distant dream in the face of World War II. The European Union is therefore important to Finland, particularly from the point of view of our overall security. Britain, which is seeking to leave the EU, has been the largest defence power in the European Union, so if and when the Brexis come to pass, then of course there will be a nuclear weapons state in the Union, France, which has a strong defence industry, among other things. An important opening this year has been the initiative taken by the French President to increase defence cooperation in Europe. There has even been talk of the creation of a European army, but the closer cooperation proposed in practice will probably mean joint exercises by the national defence and military forces, joint procurement of materials and a common industrial policy. Mr President! One thing behind the movement in different countries is the dissatisfaction with immigration policy. In Italy, for example, half a million immigrants have come to Italy over the last four years, and many Italians have experienced that the rest of Europe has left Italy alone to cope with the situation. The issue of immigration needs to be resolved, as it does not go away. On the contrary, there will be more arrivals in the coming years as a result of climate change in many countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, are experiencing a significant deterioration in living conditions. Mr President! Thirdly and lastly, I would like to raise the issue of education. The cohesion of the various countries is reinforced by the fact that citizens are part of the benefits of the Union. A good thing, for example, is the Commission's proposal, supported by the EU's education ministers, to double Erasmus funding for the next period. It is also an excellent policy to increase mobility opportunities, as well as to ensure that non-university students will also be part of the Erasmus exchange in the future. Europe is united in focusing on the things that unite us and not on those who separate us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u73	Madam President! When we talk about the future of Europe, we have to understand the time we are living in. President! My friend's eight-year-old daughter plays piano. One day I heard through the door when he was practicing in the living room — [ Talker hums] Therefore, Madam President, three aspects of the day's debate:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u80	Madam President! The Blue Future is an EU-critical party that supports internationalism and trade, but we do not accept federal development. In the EU, we are the Finnish smoke detector: we alert each time it appears that the Union is being developed in the federal direction. For the Blues, and I believe that for most Finns, the most important two Ts are the economy and security. EU membership is justified when it strengthens the well-being of Finns and is able to safeguard citizens against terrorism, uncontrolled immigration, climate change and hybrid influence. Unfortunately, the EU has failed to guarantee security, and that is a key reason why Britain decided to resign from the EU in a referendum. Mr President! No straitjacket should be EU membership, but a union of free peoples. It is important for the Blues that democracy should take place in EU matters. The main theme of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union should therefore be the promotion of democracy and democracy in the EU. The will expressed in their referendums of over 17 million Britons must now be respected, whether they like it or not. However, according to the survey, the majority of British citizens are currently hoping for a new referendum between the draft divorce agreement and the EU. However, it is more likely that there will be new elections for a new negotiating mandate. More worrying than Britain is the situation in Italy. Italy’s sovereign debt is enormous and there is a fear that Italy will end up in insolvency. Italy is too large a Member State to be rescued by others. The Italians know it, and they think it's a lever. Finland should not be frightened by a cut horse head in bed. Threats must not be tolerated. Italy does not have an offer for us that we could not refuse. A mechanism should be created in the euro area to allow the euro country to be separated or separated from the euro in a controlled manner. The EU Commission now appears to be toothless with countries that violate euro area rules, so such a real threat to those who violate euro area rules must be created. Mr President! The Finnish farmer should not be increasingly responsible for the decisions of the French farmer. A Finnish white-collar worker should not be increasingly responsible for the decisions of an Italian white-collar worker. Only the EU that serves the welfare of Finns as well as possible can receive the support of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u81	Madam President! Brexit has managed the public debate for the past two years. The British have often been accused of trying to pick up raisins from buns, i.e. sticking to the benefits of integration, but getting rid of its disadvantages. This is exactly the idea that cooperation should be based on. The EU should be a body of cooperation that will enable the peoples of Europe to solve and prevent problems affecting their common citizens. The EU was advertised as a promised country to a wanderer in the wilderness: as a community that had to increase our freedom and bring prosperity to every home. On the other side of the scale of milk and honey, however, the tests of the boundary of democracy rock. The EU has become a large-scale federal project whose main objective is to overwhelm its own power at the expense of its Member States. The single currency was a political utopia. It has crippled the economy of many Member States and, ten years ago, it caused a crisis in Greece, the price of which Finnish taxpayers will also pay for a long time. The free movement of labour has caused a demographic crisis in many Eastern European countries and has created a cheap labour market in Western Europe, including Finland. The Schengen area and the abolition of internal borders enabled the migration crisis that has shaken the whole of Europe. The position of Finns is that integration that harms Finland must be dismantled. We should not try to solve problems by increasing integration. The solution to the euro crisis is not that Brussels is hijacking from the citizens of the Member States the possibility of managing their own tax resources. [Right : Where to start? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u82	Mr President! Western democracy is in crisis. A few decades ago, such an idea seemed impossible. After all, liberal democracy had just won the Cold War, the wall broke in Europe, the wave of freedom went all the way to Finland. Nevertheless, the forces that have been unleashed by Western democracy, technological development and the market economy have been turned against freedom. Strict economic discipline policy has taken away confidence in decision-makers' ability to keep citizens together in a boat, as inequality and unemployment have increased in many countries. Climate change is progressing when emissions are still too profitable to limit. Globalisation and digitalisation have increased the accumulation of wealth in the hands of fewer large companies and individuals. At the same time, dictatorships and destructive forces within our countries have taken technology as their aid in disseminating disinformation and in conducting cyber war. My friends, this direction can be changed. Nothing's lost. We just need to understand the scale of the challenge and its obligation to defend democracy. There must be a shared hope for a sustainable future and a society in which there is room for every person and every one of his dreams. Sustainable development, employment and people-to-people justice must be placed at the heart of all decision-making. This requires the European Union and cooperation between our countries more than ever. A small country alone will not survive; we will defend our open economy together. Last Sunday, a group of 50 scientists led by French economist Thomas Piketty presented their ideas to correct the direction of Europe. It's worth getting to know. They rightly saw common solutions in Europe to strengthen people's employment and equality as a central way of combating the rise of extreme right and populism. They presented joint tax solutions in EU countries to tackle unfair tax competition and tax evasion, to tax global giants and digital companies and to combat climate change. A quarter of the revenue from these taxes would be made available for research and product development, i.e. new investment, and half would be returned to the Member States. This is something that we in Finland should be more open-minded about when we consider the development of the EU. Common taxes and funds will help to stabilise the functioning of the euro area and shift the EU's attention from economic discipline to improving employment and people's well-being. The EU must be a community of people on the side of the people. The major challenges of our time, such as climate change, are not solved alone either. We Greens want to build a Europe that is uncompromising in its defence of climate and humanity by ensuring that the rule of law protects everyone and that the market is transformed into a solution to environmental issues. A greater share of the EU budget should therefore be directed towards climate protection and new technologies, while raising our emission reduction targets. Mr President! So Brexit is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u83	Madam President! In France, the so-called yellow vests have been showing their minds for four weeks. It is not just a question of an increase in diesel prices; it was the last drop that finally got the cup down. Many of the criticisms of the French and the problems of ordinary people are pan-European and almost as such also visible in Finnish society. In France, criticism is only more violent than average. I'm glad we don't have cars burning in protests. Madam President! The ghost haunts Europe — the ghost of discontent. Every European country must be better able to respond to people's discontent, feelings of lack of participation and concerns about the future. Wealth is concentrated on a few. More people are struggling with income problems. We have to make politics for everyone, not for the few. The question also needs to be asked: is EU action likely to increase public confidence in decision-making and in the future? I'm afraid the answer is no. Madam President! The activities of the EU over the next few years will be well defined by the financial frameworks, the EU budget. In Finland, the debate on the EU budget has even been absurd. The European Minister's gentle idea that even after a possible Brexit, Finland's funding from the EU should not be reduced, that Finland's contribution should not be increased and that funding should still be allocated to new areas is quite paradoxical. [MikaNiikkoarvo] Madam President! There is much talk in Finland about the federal development of the EU without really defining the content of what federal development is. But I suppose it is clear that if anything is federal, then the militarisation of the EU. And that is what the Left Alliance seems to oppose in this House. The Finns, the Blues and the Centre are very enthusiastic federalists in this matter. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u84	Ärade talman, Mr President! We Europeans will be faced with an important choice next May. In the EU elections that will take place at that time, we will choose whether we want a liberal vision of a Europe based on freedom, prosperity and new opportunities, or whether we will back off towards a more nationalist and authoritarian regime. Today, anti-liberal and conservative forces are paralysing politics across Europe, thus posing a serious challenge for the European Union. There is therefore a threat that authoritarian, nationalist and populist movements will undermine the openness, pluralism and tolerance that has been characteristic of at least the Europe that we TKPs recognise as ours. On his recent visit to Finland, Michael O’Flaherty, Director of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, stressed the importance of the social pillar in order to resist the pseudo-solutions of populism and nationalism. It is unacceptable that millions of children The EU is living below the poverty line or the fact that Roma in many EU countries are virtually excluded from social security. The EU cannot be indifferent to these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u85	Madam President! Next year, a new direction will be chosen for the European Union. The agenda will include EU elections, the formation of the Commission, negotiations on the financial framework and probably the completion of the UK EU separation. The Finnish Presidency of the EU is also an opportunity for us Finns to raise important issues for themselves, such as circular and bioeconomy, security, Arctic and Northern Dimensions, multilateral rule-based cooperation and our education skills. The difficulties faced by the EU in internal and external policy and changes in civil opinion challenge Member States and cooperation within the Union to make greater efforts to strengthen the economy, employment and security, as well as to consult citizens at grassroots level. European cooperation should, above all, add value to national policy in the face of challenges that Member States' efforts alone are not sufficient to address, such as security, the fight against crime and terrorism, and the challenges of climate change and environmental protection. Instead, federal development or more unnecessary bureaucracy are not what we need. Madam President! EMU is also undergoing major changes. We are concerned about EMU's new development projects and the efforts to increase solidarity between Member States. We are not concerned alone, but Finland is in the same group as other well-managed countries. The main problems of EMU relate to the lack of market discipline, the over-indebtedness of Member States and the so-called relationship between states and banks. We Christian Democrats have underlined the responsibility of the Member States for their own economy. The strengthening of EMU should, first and foremost, be based on the implementation of structural reforms by the Member States themselves. For the same reason, we are also not in favour of our own budget line for the euro area. In order for monetary union to be able to operate in a sustainable manner, Member States must comply with the Stability and Growth Pact and, in good years, reduce the national debt ratio to GDP, so that national margins are available in crisis years. Madam President! Uncontrollable immigration is an issue which is currently tearing up both the Member States and European cooperation. Finland should stress the primary responsibility of each Member State for the functioning of immigration and asylum systems, even under increased migratory pressure, because the Dublin and Schengen provisions were not complied with during the crisis. Effective control of EU external borders is the key instrument for ensuring an area of free movement, so developing and ensuring border security in crisis situations is essential. Madam President! In the debate on immigration, the Christian Democrats emphasise the dignity of every human being and reject racism and also anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u86	Mr President! It is a cheap and misleading argument to say that the current problems in Europe are caused by populism. We are living in the midst of an era of change: after the Cold War period, the era of globalisation and supranational integration began. It has now reached the end of its path. The fact that uncontrolled globalisation and supranational integration have led to a dead end is no surprise. When the issue of Finland's accession to the European Union was discussed in this Chamber, this was warned of, and then the wise from far away suggested that we should have left the European Economic Area and started to develop the Nordic community. If Finland had made this choice, Sweden would have followed with it, and in this way Europe would have made a reasonable distinction. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] The problems of globalisation were also on the agenda. After I had become a Member of the European Parliament, I translated in Finnish the book of James Goldsmith called Ansa. It warned against the consequences of uncontrolled globalisation. He was very well able to predict the problems this would cause. At the moment, both supranational integration within Europe and globalisation have indeed reached a dead end. Huge problems have arisen: jobs have moved from the old industrialised countries to cheap labour countries. There has been great unemployment, large migrations, huge income and wealth disparities, and people feel that they can no longer influence things when too much power has been transferred to market forces and supranational decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u87	At this stage, I will give the floor to the ministers Sipilä and Terho, and then we will go to the debate, which we can reserve from there at this stage. — Prime Minister Sipilä, 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u88	Mr President! Thank you for your constructive contributions. The Finnish Presidency and the whole of next year will be a super-year in the EU in many ways. We have our own elections ahead of us and then the European Parliament elections, the organisation of Parliament's Commission. We have a multi-annual budgetary framework on the table, the implementation of the European Union's five-year strategy, the negotiation of a new UK relationship, the next stage of EMU, the preparation for tightening the EU's 2030 emission reduction targets. The issues of the rule of law mentioned by Mr Biaudet and the preparation for the issue of climate change will certainly remain on the agenda. Finland has brought into this debate the idea of a carbon exchange, where carbon sinks would also be part of the debate and a clearer part of the solution, and we also need market forces to do this. In Emu, careful preparation has produced results. We've gone in the right direction. We still have a difference of thinking between the north and the south, but I believe that we can find a compromise which can move forward in the banking union, a step forward in reducing risks, but this situation in Italy and France shows how sensible it has been to move forward in these matters very carefully. In migration, a holistic approach is the only one that works. Austria has proposed such flexible solidarity, where one could pick from a different range of means its most suitable country, for example to be financially helping African countries. The multilateral regulatory international system is currently threatened in many ways, and it is extremely important for Finland, a small country, that the EU remains a defender of these — free trade, combating climate change, we also need a whole new, genuine partnership and cooperation with African countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u89	Mr President! I will start with these themes, namely Brexit and the financial framework, which belong to my portfolio of ministers. It is true that Brexit is at a time of confusion, from which it is difficult to predict the future, even the near future, which path Britain and the EU will eventually take. Perhaps it is better just to review the principles that need to be borne in mind, no matter what the situation is. Firstly, of course, we respect the decision of the British people to leave the Union, and they have the right to leave the Union even without an agreement, if that is the British decision, but I do not think it is desirable for either party, and certainly not for the national interest of Finland. It would still be very desirable if we could find a way of making a contractually controlled Brexi, in which trade relations, all relations, defence, culture, everyone, would remain as close as possible to our good and dear partner country. As far as the financial framework is concerned, however, some comment was made here, and I shall take a little left-hand look at these principles, which are quite reasonable in Finland's way of working. Firstly, the overall level must remain as close as possible to the current level. We do not want to increase the Union for Income Transfers, but we want, through targeting, which is a completely realistic path, to change the nature of the budget in order to strengthen the EU's support for science, knowledge, support the promotion and security of trade and entrepreneurship. These themes will also be very central to the EU's acceptance of citizens in the future. I would like to comment briefly on the unclear comment made by the Finns on the need to bring back border controls. This would mean, for example, that the millions of Finnish people crossing the border each year will have more trouble crossing the border. Do you want to clarify this opening, or did this really mean, categorically, that all millions of tourists and commuters, Finns who go to other EU countries, would always be subject to checks?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u90	I will now give you the answers. Let us start with those who have just spoken in the group, but first of all, Mr Satonen, the chairman of the large committee, Mr Satonen, has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u91	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here, above all on what matters Finland should put on the table during its own Presidency. It was indeed important that all parties were able to work together to prepare it. Thank you again at this stage to the Prime Minister, who was making a key contribution to the fact that when our own parliamentary elections were coming before the beginning of the Presidency, all parties, including opposition parties, were involved in doing these things. The key point is also this financial framework, and it is now good that we already have the position of a large committee, which was also shared by the Social Democrats in the main opposition party, and in which the key message is precisely that funding for rural development is too small for us, but at the same time we must also have funding for new priorities, and the overall level must be kept at a reasonable level. It is important to take this message forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u92	Mr President! Like the chairman of the large committee, I too would like to express my thanks for the fact that we worked together in the large committee to achieve these objectives, criteria and priorities of the Finnish Presidency. After all, the starting point is to put citizens at the centre, to take over climate policy and to build a stronger Europe and a safer world. It is very important for us, during our Presidency, to emphasise the common value base. It has now been shaken, and that is why it is one point where we must find a common tone in the future, and the common objectives of immigration and asylum policy are also involved. We need to find ways to work things out together. It cannot be as it is at present in part that some of them refuse to take joint decisions on burden sharing, for example. Indeed, the Finnish Presidency will have the choice of the Commission, and the financial framework will probably remain there, and the starting point must then be to build a Europe in which all the Member States feel that they are equally valuable and important. It's not alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u93	Mr President! The fact that populist parties have taken important positions in many countries is essentially due to the failure of immigration policy. This has happened, for example, in Italy, Sweden. At the end of the rest, Brexit is also very much a matter of that. In this respect, the Austrian flexible model proposed by the Prime Minister is very interesting, because so far there has been a debate in the European Union on, for example, the placement of individual points of entry in different countries, but the problem has been that there has not been a search for the willing countries in which they could be located. The second question is that it has been very difficult to return asylum seekers from certain countries because they have not received them. In Finland, the question is mainly about Iraqis. We have several thousand Iraqis who have not been able to return because the country does not accept them. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister whether there are any joint agreements specifically with regard to these return agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u94	Mr President! Now that we are following this path of pain in Brexit, we cannot help but think of what it would mean to a small country such as Finland, when it seems that even a large country is creating such difficulties, which seem to be almost insurmountable. I wonder what that would mean. However, I would also like to ask the Finns: When I listened to your group speech and to the need to restore internal border control, how much are you willing to pay for it? How much are you prepared to reduce GDP to restore internal borders? [Base Finns Group :Many! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u95	Mr President! The blue solution to immigration is very short and simple: the treatment of asylum seekers outside the EU. So I ask the Prime Minister: do you support this proposal, which I understand is supported by quite a few other EU Member States as such? There has been much talk about the situation in Europe, and it is also very critical of the EU to say that Europe is quite confused at the moment: the situation in France, the situation in Britain, Italy, Germany, all these countries. But I do wonder that in France, if yellow vests work in Finland, yellow vests destroy the work of others. How can it be that President Macron fully agrees with the demands that have been made in France following such events? After all that destruction, we go to television and say, "We'll do it." As a French voter, I would wonder what the significance of the voice is when you can do this on the street. It must be said to the True Finns that your speech here earlier did not include the resignation of Mr Huhtasaari from the EU and the euro. Isn't that your line? Or is it not only the party vice-president who has the power to influence the speech that was given here by Mr Niikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u96	Mr President! Yes, I spoke very clearly about reinstating internal border controls as far as the free movement of migrants across Europe is concerned. In next year's budget, we are also prepared for some 2000 new asylum seekers who come to Finland through internal borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u99	Mr President! Yes, this Brexit process has revealed that there is little choice for idlers when citizens suddenly put their options or proposals behind them. Then it turns out the Emperor has no clothes. And this is what we need to learn from together. [of the Socialist Group :Skyton! ] This is where I would join the Nobel Prize winner, our President, Martti Ahtisaari, when he has traveled a lot around the various countries of conflict in the world and wondered what kind of society is good. Ahtisaari recently said that the Nordic welfare state is still a model for the rest of the world. We should now also make it an export product throughout Europe, because people's confidence in decision-makers has been weakened partly because of the strong experience of increasing inequalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u100	Madam President! If we look at where the EU's resources should be directed, we should focus on improving employment, preventing exclusion, social policy, curbing tax evasion, human rights-based social policy. These are the things the EU should be investing in. More emphasis should be placed on the 2030 targets and criteria, both within the EU and in external funding. Strengthening funding for the fight against climate change, which is now being proposed by the Commission, is justified for research and development activities and young people. Even greater efforts than has been made on these issues would be appropriate, particularly on climate issues. We have a great deal of cross-border activities and cross-border problems. They cannot be resolved within the borders of countries, but cross-border solutions are needed. In that sense, I am a little surprised at the strict stance of the government on the EU's own resources, which would be sought specifically for cross-border problems. Why is this funding not being used but being used against it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u101	Madam President! It is only a matter of time before the economic sled in Europe turns and we are heading back to the next possible economic recession. The political climate and the economic situation in Italy, in particular, are worrying about the euro countries and the recent developments in France indicate that another major economy may follow. At the same time, however, steps are being taken both in EMU and in the EU budget to increase solidarity. The aim of the negotiations on the financial framework is to make structural reforms that belong to the Member States themselves. This means that the key objectives that are important to Finland in terms of financing agriculture and also rural development are under threat. I would have liked to hear from the Prime Minister how the government will ensure that the key objectives for Finland are achieved in these negotiations on the financial framework and that the agricultural and regional development funds that are important to us are preserved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u102	Mr President! This was just as it was feared in advance that the main issue of the very day-to-day, very near-day issues will be discussed and the prospects for the longer-term European Union and Europe and the world will be sidelined. The Prime Minister has taken the initiative that the Committee on the Future should be able to examine the future of Finland and certainly of Europe and the world over a number of parliamentary periods. We are supposed to book a spring, spring season, more meetings for this work. I hope that, on that basis, Parliament will have such a forward-looking review, and that this could also be an element of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union, so that it is not just running on the old track but opening up the debate on new development lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u103	Mr President! A united and strong European Union is in the interests of a small Member State. A united, strong EU is in Finland's best interests. People's Europe is in the interests of Finns. The government crisis in Britain, the political crisis, has shown that populist deludes always. Mr President, populist always fails. Behind the corner, there is an economic crisis. Populists promised £350 million a week to save money. Now this Brexit crisis is costing the country £500 million a week. Britain is threatened by hundreds of billions of capital outflows. Export companies are planning to move. If they stay behind customs, there'll be a mass escape. The alternative is either this agreement, in which Britain will remain a non-voting member and will continue to pay, or a non-agreemental distinction in favour of a recession. Britain is dwindling into a series of flies in the economy and trade. Mr President! If a big country can't do it alone, how could anyone here imagine that a country as small as Finland could do it alone?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u106	Mr President! This hall asked how much the Finns are willing to pay for border security. The answer is a lot. For us, the safety of Finns always comes first. We want to avoid terrorism and violence against women. In the past, Europe represented border security, freedom of expression and independent nation states. The current EU represents unlimited chaos, terrorism and the narrowing of freedom of expression. Nor are we in favour of a Union of transfers, with net beneficiaries and net contributors. Remember, whoever has the money has the power. The EU defines how we spend all the money we can get back. Now I would like to ask Minister Terho: In 2017, you said that you wanted to
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u107	Mr President! When we talk about Europe, we sometimes say that ‘in Europe we should remember that we are’in Europe where we are. We are part of this Europe. Even before the Finnish Presidency, the issue of Brexit will be resolved, and if we go to such a hard, non-contractual Brexit, it is a tragedy for Britain. It is also a tragedy for us and for our economy. For Britain, it is also a security issue in relation to Northern Ireland and the future of Scotland and so on. We must help Britain out of this in some way. It is also possible to change your mind, I think it is important. The debate on Britain is now too late, and too much to go back to the old referendum. I think it is important, during our Presidency, to raise the issue of Africa, to raise the issue of development there, to raise the issue of climate change solutions. And I am not in favour of Mr Väyrynen returning to the nationalist thinking on issues where we need extensive international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u108	Mr President! This well described what is happening after Brexit and how it should be related to Finnish reality in the speeches by representatives Tuppurainen and Lindtma. Mr President! The new challenges of globalisation — climate change, the digital economy and the platform economy — challenge the global economy as a whole and the global process of life, and these must be managed jointly and jointly. Often financial control is an effective tool for implementing this kind of management. For example, a digital tax, a tax on financial transactions for high-speed transactions, emissions taxes and so on are such means that could be used jointly. Brexit will significantly reduce the European Union's membership revenue. Now, in this situation, it might make sense to consider the collection of EU own resources with elements that do not affect the contribution of membership contributions,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u109	Mr President! The riots in yellow vests in France are the most recent example of the greatest failure of European decision-makers. It is that it has not been possible to give all citizens the prospect of a better future. It should be taken seriously here in Finland as well as in many other countries, where citizens have the experience of putting economic discipline, for example, before the well-being of citizens. Another key problem is the unresolved democratic problems and the democratic deficit linked to the structures of monetary union and also to these economic discipline rules. Following the proposals announced by Emmanuel Macron to improve the position of low-income earners, the French budget deficit is now expected to increase to 3.4%, and the Italian people will certainly be watching with their eyes on whether France will be hardened as hard as the Italian Government was on the draft budget, which originally predicted a deficit of 2.4%, or even a percentage point lower.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u110	Mr President! When the vote on Britain's EU divorce began to dawn the next morning, the British began to google: what is the EU? So the people didn't know what they were voting for. This is what happens when politicians who want to take power promise too much and paint carelessly with too big a brush. Mr Väyrynen, you have been at the heart of politics in Finland and the EU for 50 years — an honorable career. You listed a list of EU problems. I dare ask: why have you not been able to influence the development of the EU in the 50 years that you have been working here in Finland and in the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u113	Mr President! That Finnish line outlined by Prime Minister Sipilä seems quite reasonable. We are acting in favour of less but better regulation of the EU and we stress the principle of subsidiarity. Yes, on major economic and security issues, as well as sustainable development and the promotion of a bio- and circular economy, joint decision-making brings added value. Instead, a small piece of legislation that makes life difficult for businesses or citizens and interferes with national characteristics — we do not need that. Mr President! Finland's presidency of the European Union in the second half of next year will be an important place for influence, and I am sure the Union will be in a hinged phase. We have a good common policy here — citizens in the centre, climate policy in control, a stronger Europe in the world — and it also takes into account our northern circumstances. It is the basis for a strong EU influence. This presidency of the European Union is a national, joint task, but, Mr President, it is desirable that, during the forthcoming EU Presidency, our country has a prime minister who has a fresh and good feeling about these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u114	Mr President! We need a Union that guarantees security and gives hope for the future. A secure future for Europe requires responses to cross-border challenges that no single Member State is capable of responding to. Therefore, taxes to combat climate change and taxation of the financial sector should be implemented at EU level. If we could also achieve a combined and common corporate tax that would make aggressive tax planning unnecessary, then we would also have a genuine cyclical stabiliser from the EU's own resources. The lower membership fee allows the country to recover from difficulties, but without separate transfers. So everyone has their own responsibility, but no one is left alone. Just as President Rinne has just said, this common spirit must be promoted by the Finnish Presidency of the European Union. It is our job to increase mutual trust, to increase the security of everyone and to increase faith in the common future. Prime Minister Sipilä, will you sign these projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u115	Madam President! You can't say much in a minute, but I'm gonna say this: What do Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, Sweden and even the United States have in common? New nationalism, new populism, new extreme right-wingism. Even Finland has marched behind swastika flags. What's the motive here? A lot of propulsion. However, one of the key drivers is uncontrolled immigration. Look at any country: the recent elections. This has been the one where the extreme right has risen to power. This means that when Finland now has the presidency of the EU and is at the stake, Finland must find ways to manage immigration, how to achieve better solidarity and how to really invest Europe in Africa and the countries of origin, so that the conditions for living are created. My final point is that there is no point in arguing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u116	Mr President! I agree with the experienced statesman, Salolainen, that the management of immigration must be able to influence it during the EU Presidency. Just now, Mr Huhtasaari told us about the introduction of full border control that they would be prepared to put a lot of money into it. It was still unclear how much there was, since they apparently had no money in the shadow budget either. Although I might imagine that there is quite a lot, there are still no figures. Huhtasaari did not comment in any way on their desire to leave the EU and the euro. That is what you have said in this Chamber before, and I can already tell you a slogan suitable for the following elections, which you can freely introduce: “UkrainiantieonSuomentie. “ It's a good election slogan for you. The slogan relating to the Blue European elections and other European political questions is ‘common to the matter of independence’. The truth is that we cannot find ourselves in a position such as Ukraine, Russia's neighbour, who is neither in NATO nor in the EU. We must understand that, in order to defend our independence and to maintain economic security, we also need partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u117	Mr President! I believe that the EU has four major pillars: a community of values, an economic community, a security community, and it should be even more a social community. The value community and the social community are preventing populism in Europe. In this respect, the social pillar — the question of livelihood, work and its relevance — must be strongly emphasised. I would like to take up the Prime Minister's speech on the future of Emu, the next stage. How are we in Finland preparing for the new era as an export-dependent, sensitive economy? We need new types of economic cycle buffers, knowledge buffers. We have such flexible buffers in connection with the establishment of the unemployment benefit system, the pension system, but we need more of them, and in this sense I think that the government's EMU analysis is a little short. I would like this to be considered in Finland as a sensitive export country by how Finland accepts these different variations in the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u118	Mr President! This official EU liturgy is sometimes even a little comical to listen to. The Prime Minister said that the benefits of the EU were enormous, but they were so huge that there was no concrete example of them. Maybe it's the kind of Emperor's clothes we just don't see here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u121	Madam President! Three things, if I have time: climate, digitalisation and migration. Firstly, the revision of the climate targets will certainly come before the European Union soon too, and we must ensure that, if necessary, the objectives of the Paris Agreement are tightened up under our Presidency. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about this: how do you plan to keep the theme on the agenda during our Presidency? The second point relates to digitalisation and the fact that good openings have been made in the European Union to create an EU Digital Single Market and to curb international platform giants in so far as it is possible for platform companies operating in the European Union as well. I hope that this angle will also be promoted during the Finnish Presidency, as it will enable us to have many employment issues. Finally, I would like to emphasise that if someone offers cheap and easy solutions in migration management, he is likely to be wrong. Migration will not be resolved in camps in Libya or by closing borders. This is a complex global issue and requires human rights-based, European-wide solidarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u122	Madam President! The EU was a choice between security policy and trade policy. The defence of free trade and the development of the internal market were the elements from which Finland has benefited and built its own economic foundation. However, with the enlargement of the European Community, internal fragmentation has increased. The social pillar is a means of restoring this equality. Equality between citizens is a key objective, but how can it be achieved without transnational transfers? How, then, can the fragmented European Community build equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion? In this respect, European countries will have to seek cooperation, one type of, similar approaches to ensure equal access to childcare, the livelihood of older people, health care and basic services for Europeans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u123	Mr President! We are talking here about the need for common responsibility — the need for common responsibility to promote prosperity, to improve employment, to combat climate change, to curb immigration, to promote security. There is talk all the time that we must jointly and severally deal with these. At the same time,the word ‘solidarity’is felt by many in this debate. Through solidarity, we can take the joint responsibility to improve these matters. Several speakers have referred to the own resources mechanism. They could be collected through various pan-European tax solutions at EU level. In that way we could find the capacity to deal with these genuine issues of solidarity within the framework of financial resources. During its Presidency, Finland could take the initiative in this area and make proposals for greater solidarity and shared responsibility through these mechanisms. Is the Prime Minister going to take care of him?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u124	Mr President! First of all, thank the government and thank everyone for the fact that this debate is mainly constructive. The situation in Europe is so serious that we too must take it very seriously. I personally would like to point out, like many colleagues, that this social dimension – especially youth unemployment and the problems associated with it, the real problems that cause these major problems – must and must also be on the Finnish agenda. But even more broadly, when you look at the future of Europe, I fear that the whole of Europe, including Finland, will gradually sink into a subcontracting economy. The game is so hard at the moment in China, the United States under pressure, and when the platform economy, artificial intelligence at all is shaping the world, what do we have left? We have the last time, on the whole continent, to wake up to that reality. Now that money is threatening to go to China, the United States. This is our common challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u125	Mr President! Less but better Europe. The immigration policy is under control. Take control of climate policy. Representative Mäkelä sought concrete benefits from international cooperation. The fight against cross-border crime, terrorism, cybercrime — is there not enough justification for this already, which is why we cannot manage on our own? You Finns here declared you are lawyers of national security, but you did present a very strange play here when you had to decide on the urgent procedure of intelligence law. Was it because only on the last day did you agree to come along, at the last moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u126	Mr President! When the European Union was set up, the founding fathers took joint responsibility for the development of Europe. Now we also have to take responsibility for the common Europe of the moment. The worst example that this responsibility has not been taken is Brexit at the moment. It is easy to blame others for their own mistakes, and this is a big problem at the moment in Europe and also one of the beginnings of populism. But, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that the European Union is just a market, a free trade area. Then we could not do any of the things that have been considered important here: no common climate policy, no common asylum policy, no common policy for better employment and greater inclusion. We need a strong policy so that we can do:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u127	Mr President! It is interesting that in today's political debate in Finland, it sometimes seems to be part of a minority when it comes to supporting Finland's independence when it comes to supporting the Finnish nation state.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u128	Madam President! We all know that Finland is a country dependent on foreign trade and exports, and it is also worth remembering that our main trading partners are almost all of Europe. In other words, we need free trade, free movement and a functioning market and peace in Europe. It should be remembered that the European Union is also a community of peace and security. We cannot combat international crime on our own, and now, when we finish, for example, those much-spoken intelligence laws, we have a better chance of doing our own thing together with the Europeans. But let us also remember the fact that, when you look at the European economic policy that is being implemented in the EU and in the euro area, it is realism that Germany is being imposed there, and it cannot continue to be so long that the German economy is producing huge surpluses and all the other Member States around it are producing deficits and are feeling worse or worse. This is a reality that must also be remembered. In other words, I would also like to ask for an agreement on that part of Germany to have an economic policy that favours non-large countries as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u129	Madam President! Say hi from Poland. I went there last weekend and looked at the fields that were growing as far as the eye could see. That's where they make giant chickens, that's where they invest. When we talk about internal security here, at least I almost first think of domestic food production and ensuring the profitability of domestic agriculture. We know that in many countries where there are little different conditions for growth, production costs are also very low. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister was now temporarily forced to leave here, but I would have asked him how Finland intends to improve the Commission's proposal to cut rural development funds by 15%. Direct payments are only 2%, but these rural development subsidies are important to Finland, because through them, in a way through natural resources, we get two thirds of the membership fees back, which means that it is also our net contribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u130	Mr President! There is an analysis here from several colleagues of how uncontrolled immigration would be the cause of the current European turbulence. This analysis is going wrong. Firstly, we have never had any controlled immigration. The Berlin Wall got pretty close, but it also leaked badly. Secondly, we have examples of a country where immigration has been very high and there has been no immigration-critical movement of any kind, such as Spain. Thirdly, the opposition to immigration is most popular in those regions where immigration is the least common within countries, which is an extremely interesting phenomenon. It is obvious that much more of this phenomenon is explained by the rapid social change, the narrowing of the middle class, the long downturn and the increase in inequality, which only together appear as a guest, an insensitivity and uncertainty which then receive the face of immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u131	I now give the answers to the representatives of Rinne, Niinistö and Satonen. Then Minister Terho will have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u132	Mr President! There has been talk of common European values. Human rights, respect for human dignity, human dignity as a human being, the rule of law and democracy are the fundamental values that Europeans recognise on which the European Union is built. It is inconceivable that expressions such as those used by Mr Tavio are used here as a community of values in the European Union. Mr President! I would like to continue with the initial speech on these common funds. Now that the Prime Minister has just arrived, I would like to say to you, Prime Minister, whether it is not important to find new ways of financing common European Union issues, such as education, research, science, in the context of Brexit, where the revenue from membership is being reduced. With Brexit, we lose significant universities behind the border, and it might be important to find concentrations such as MIT or Havard where there could be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u133	Mr President! It is true that when you really study the distrust of politics or the European Union, the reason is that these people feel that their own life situation has deteriorated or that the prospects for the future have deteriorated. And just as Mr Kontula says, concern for immigration is more common among people who do not live with immigrants in everyday life. So this tells us that it is also a question of prejudice, which is being fomented here in the Chamber. Instead of stirring up problems, they should be solved together. Then Europe will have achieved this, Finland will have achieved this by being a liberal community for progress, for equality and for human rights, in which it is appropriate to work, to try and live and to live for all kinds of people. We must remember that we also have a very diverse cultural background in this country. For example, we have many different religious minorities in Finland, and we must remember that also when we talk about the development of our own country. To the Prime Minister: I would now like you to be able to respond a little more concretely to the way in which Finland is promoting in climate policy the tightening of emission reduction targets during your term of government and towards the presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u134	Representative Satonen and then Minister Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u135	Mr President! If you listen to this debate, perhaps it should also be mentioned that at the moment the support of the European Union in the Member States of the European Union is higher than ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u138	Secretary Terho, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u139	President! A few answers. First of all, the Finns of Peru did not now take a more detailed view that when last year the Finns made 8.8 million crossings — I made a quick check — and you want the border controls back, how could they only apply to people other than Finns? After all, 8,8 million Finns will suffer unnecessary or greater indiscretion each year because of your proposal. So answer this: how are you going to organise this, that it should apply — as Niikko, who has now left, said — [Laura Huhtasaari’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u142	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. The world is now in the position that we have moved towards cooperation between continents, and that is where the European Union is our community to which we belong. Finland is the EU Presidency from the beginning of July. The EU Presidency has the potential to influence and promote its own affairs, but above all it is now up to the EU Presidency to organise itself after the elections to the European Parliament. I really hope in the future that we in this House in Finland will be able to join forces in European policy on as many points as possible, because a small country will be listened to much better if the minister can say that this is the opinion of Parliament, Parliament is behind my proposal. And in order to achieve this, I hope that we will seek the common good and leave less to the mere politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u143	Mr President! A strong EU is also strong in external relations. The December Summit, which will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, will also be on the agenda for external relations, and there may be a debate on Russia's activities in the Asov Sea. The Austrian Presidency has pointed out, among other things, that once Russia has violated the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, it is also possible to discuss strengthening sanctions. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister: has there been any advance information on this, whether this will come to the debate, and is there a possibility that Finland's position on this matter is clear?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u144	Mr President! The European Union is founded on human rights. The 70th anniversary of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights was just celebrated. That is why this debate fits perfectly in this context. As the Prime Minister well described in his first speech, we are in a situation where discussing the values of the European Union is extremely important. And there is the problem of populism, which the Prime Minister also started with his first speech. I believe that this partly uncontrolled, partly problematic immigration situation, some kind of influx of refugees into Europe, is part of the reason why populism has gained a little momentum. But I agree with Mr Kontula and the others that there is a deeper reason for the inequality that affects people who have long been unemployed, who have no prospects for the future at all because of the lack of access to employment or whose financial situation is very poor. In the former East German region, for example, there is much stronger support for the populist movement on the far right, precisely because they are disappointed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u145	Madam President! The British decision to leave the EU was, of course, Britain's own, but the EU also has a place to look in the mirror. Before the referendum, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker spoke in a rather arrogant tone in Britain about the importance of Britain or the value of the debate that took place in Britain before the referendum. Similarly, the President of the United States, Mr Barack Obama, made a very wrong visit to Britain, where he gave instructions, in a way, on how Britain should act. If you have any knowledge of the people of Britain, you understand that at least this is not what the Americans want to hear. In the same breath, I must say that, although I am critical of the EU, I would be very careful to call the EU fascist, especially from a party that is going to join the same European Parliament group as the extreme right. When Poland was brought up, there we see the worst traces of fascism in Europe. This government has just made a fine decision to support the Jewish congregation in Helsinki, and the next day a swastika flag flew in Helsinki. This is the time frame.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u146	Mr President! It is a sad fact that ministers do not answer questions when they are directly asked. 16.5.2017 European Minister Sampo Terho in Helsingin Sanomat: ‘A referendum on EU membership shall be held at any stage’. SampoTerho also has a large number of small countries that are not This is absolutely true. Norway, Switzerland and Iceland will certainly not join the current EU because they have seen the results. The EU has failed on so many points. Furthermore, these qualified majority decisions, which are constantly being added, will in future mean that no further questions will be asked from small countries, such as Finland. As far as border control is concerned, it is a normal state administration. The government should know how other countries, safe states, manage their own border controls.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u147	Secretary Terho, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u148	Mr President! I would certainly not want to cause any more grief to a person like Mr Huhtasaari, so I asked for this reply right away. With regard to the referendums: of course we respect Britain, but we do not take it as an example. It's their solution, their individual actions. If you mean to ask how it will be in the future, you are well aware that there will be no referendum on the EU in the government programme, which you have also approved. If you ask what the blue people are thinking, then if the EU changes the Treaties, then there should be a referendum, and it is very important for the democratic acceptance of federal development. This has not been the case in the past, and the blue people think that this is the right line if you were to ask for the blue line. You'd think you'd know the government's line because you've accepted it yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u149	Mr President! In the past, Mr Anttila described very well how we are currently negotiating as blocks and continents and how the European Union is important to us in the global negotiation process. We have talked a lot about the direction of Africa here, and I personally believe that the EU could be a much more active player in Africa's development and that the African Union could also be a good partner for the EU in a deeper way than it is today. But perhaps two other directions should be raised in this debate. Last weekend I was visiting Ukraine, and I saw more EU tickets there than I have seen in many EU countries. The expectations there are very high in terms of economic cooperation, but a little between the lines also came from the fact that the political solution to this crisis is also to be welcomed by the EU. I have been to the Western Balkans before. In terms of Serbia, Kosovo, the peaceful development of the Western Balkans, for example, the European Union is very important there. The EU as a Union for Peace also works in our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u150	Mr President! The whole of this Brexit process shows well that the problems that have been addressed — the lack of prospects, the increase in inequality, unemployment, the narrowing of well-being, the uncertainty of one's own job and livelihood — will not be solved by resigning from the Union. They will only be resolved by a different policy at national and EU level, and that is why almost all the groups in this House have discussed what policy needs to be taken: what to do about unemployment, what to do about economic discipline rules, how to combat the tax haven economy and climate change. Only one group's only political requirement seems to be to put borders on people of the wrong colour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u151	Madam President! I am a little surprised at the speeches and the shades that have been used in this Chamber. In time, the European steel and coal community and later the European Community were set up as a peace project and, you might say, on top of the ashes of the Holocaust. Europe then swore that this should never happen again on our soil. It seems that these lessons are learned quite quickly — I might say that in one person — they seem to be forgotten, and similar tendities and winds are blowing in Europe at the moment. Then, in the European Union, different trends and different policies and different passions, some very federalist and federal, are taking the Union in the direction that should be taken. The Christian Democrats, on the other hand, see that we need the cooperation of the independent Member States and that the EU is the framework within which it can be done. It is quite right that political developments and policies should be divided within it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u152	Mr President! I would like to reply to Mr Haavisto's speech about an hour ago. I am, of course, in favour of international cooperation, but I tried to say that I prefer intergovernmental decision-making rather than supranational decision-making — both are certainly needed, but the emphasis is on intergovernmental decision-making. To Mr Östman, I am proud of the line I have taken on globalisation and supranational integration. Now that these developments have reached a dead end, we are gradually beginning to admit that it will: Väyrynen was right in his opposition to Finland's accession to the European Union, preferring to support Eta membership and the Nordic Community, against joining the euro, has opposed this uncontrolled globalisation. I believe that, in this new situation, the star movement under my leadership will come to such a position that we will also be able to have a greater influence on decision-making. So far, unfortunately, I have remained in the minority.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u153	Mr President! When it comes to managing globalisation or how the market within the European Union is good, then it is precisely the political instruments that we have to manage the market and globalisation. This is precisely where multilateral cooperation is needed. The European Union is the European Union that takes the political decisions that govern the market. We certainly know very well that the market is working and the market is operating self-sufficient, and that there is a need for joint decisions that will then bring about an environment that will not be destroyed, that people will be cared for and that a society that will take account of human beings will be created. That's not what the market does.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u154	Mr President! To these speeches about what the Brexit does or will do, I would say that there are many people in this Chamber who think they are experts in it, but in reality there is none, so we will see how it will turn out in the future. In the past, when we talked about the fight against cross-border crime as a merit of the EU, I would argue otherwise. According to news reports, the shooter in Strasbourg had a criminal record in three different countries. The suspect in the rape case in Oulu was only apprehended in Germany, and hundreds of new people have come to Finland to follow the protection police. It sounds to me like the free movement of criminals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u158	Mr President! I have followed Finland's EU policy, the government's EU policy in a large committee, and I think it is to be welcomed that it has been active and impressive, that we have sought forms of cooperation with like-minded countries and that we continue to seek and seek to influence economic issues, among other things. In the European debate, the European added value wants to be forgotten. When we work together in Europe and when we use the single currency, we should always look at how impressive it is in terms of European added value. In other words, things that can be done in the Member States should not necessarily be done on a common basis. Mr President! Often, when the EU is accused, it is the role of the Member States. Even in the economy, the European Central Bank has had to do a great deal of what the Member States should have done to make their own economy work: to carry out these structural reforms in many ways and to promote inclusive growth. This is what I see as a problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u159	Mr President! It is necessary to address what was seen in this debate. Mr President! In the recent debate, Mr Tavio, the representative of the People's Party of Finland, crossed all the boundaries of the debate and also the truth as he compared the development of the EU to Nazi Germany and used the term 'fascism' in the context of the EU's development. So Nazi Germany is about the genocide of millions of people and the death of tens of millions of people in World War II, and the whole of the EU has been founded in the first place because never again. Mr President! We have now crossed a line that has never been seen in this Chamber before. I look forward to the actions and comments of the leadership of the Finns on whether they accept this parable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u160	Madam President! We cannot change the past, but from now on, as we live, we can make a difference. The negotiations on the financial framework are now before us, among other things, and they are extremely worrying for Finland's agriculture and the whole food chain. During this 25-year period, Finnish agriculture has been driven down heavily by the EU, and the situation among the farming population is so sharp that the plans now included in the Commission's proposed cuts are unreasonable and fatal for Finland and agriculture as a whole. The second big issue is the situation of the European Central Bank and the euro. For the past six years, the European Central Bank has been holding the euro up artificially with huge purchases of junk loans, mainly from Italy, partly from Greece and so on — and also from Finland. This is about to end because we have to stop, we can't go on like this. This means that interest rates are rising and difficulties are piling up
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u161	Madam President! I have followed this debate in my office, and this is a very multi-generational debate, but I would also like to say that Finland is a regional part of Europe, whether it likes it or not. Finland should strive not to isolate itself from the rest of the world but to engage in active interaction with the rest of the world. The world is no longer such that countries here can — or of course they can — but countries should not be such that they are left out of other interaction, as it were in their own island. I think it is important that we have strong EU criticism, a strong independent vision of what we are and want as a country. But our own interests cannot be promoted by our isolation from everything, and I do want to resign from this debate and from this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u162	Madam President! The Finnish road has always been westward, and Urho Kaleva Kekkonen worked tremendously to ensure that our neutrality has been recognised, and his clear direction was that we urgently need a Western connection. It has been quite the right way, but it must have been remembered that the Finnish road has always been about building peace and seeking partners. Brave Kekkonen once said that we should keep our friends close and our enemies as far away as possible. Europe has always been a very natural partner for us, and Western freedom and democracy, to which Finland belongs and which we have also often defended with weapons, mean that we must then help people to preserve this open society as well as possible in this world and in Europe. At the UN we are also doing valuable work to achieve this goal, but we should always remember that when we keep our own nation and our own economy in order and engage in foreign trade and work with other nations, this goal may come true, but if we isolate ourselves, it is the last road.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u163	Madam President! Like Mr Lindtman, I strongly resign myself from Mr Tavio's Nazi Germany parable, and just as unsuccessful is the comparison that has often been heard here before, where the EU is compared with the Soviet Union. The EU is not a prison for the peoples, it is free cooperation between free countries. President! Apart from these speeches, today's debate in this Chamber has been quite monotonous, and I am delighted about that. I am also pleased that when we joined forces to prepare for Finland's future Presidency, which will begin in July, we also achieved unity in that regard. It is a huge resource, no matter what the future government may be. When a new Presidency comes to Finland, it will be a very difficult time. There is no certainty as to when the new Commission will start its activities, and perhaps the presidency will now be expected to have more and more leadership than it would have been under a presidency that would have come under other circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u164	Now for Prime Minister Sipilä's reply, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u165	Mr President! About a year and a half ago we had a debate on the future of the EU, and then we had it on the basis of the Rome Declaration. There are two main pillars: growth and jobs and security. Growth and jobs are divided into two pillars: ‘the prosperousEU’ and ‘the social Europe’. This has been referred to here a few times. In the ‘EU of prosperity’ area, a strong Then this social dimension: I personally believe that this cohesion policy and a strong internal market have benefited the most from the last few countries, and these differences between the Member States will gradually be evened out. What, then, could that social dimension be besides this? Social protection, equality and equality issues, fair labour markets — issues of this kind. But instead, I have not been in favour of the social pillar moving towards a common social security system in which we share solidarity not only in this cohesion policy but also in this sector. Then the security sector: there has been a number of reference here to the rule-based international system and its defence, the multilateral trading system, international climate action. Mr Niinistö asked about the climate action of the Presidency and they will become an E-letter to Parliament at the beginning of January, and this issue can be affected until then and, of course, in committee. Then there has been this MFF, which is our budgetary issue, and that includes own resources, that is, taxation. The starting point for Finland has been that taxation is in national hands all the time and we do not want to take it to the EU level. But we have been positive, let us be open to words, such as harmful taxes and plastic taxes, and the digital tax is something that must be controlled by common action. These big giants don't practically pay tax on anything. An EU-level solution seems a little too poor, too small, and it should be found a global solution first of all, but it may well be that there is a solution that could be found, for example, for online advertising and online advertising. Let me just say a few words about that multiannual budgetary framework: First of all, the representative Mr Arhinmäki pointed out the need to look at the overall and the tasks and the realistic level of the budget. This has been precisely the starting point. It's too high. A further 20 billion will be needed for rural development. It's in our show. How is that possible? This is possible in such a way as to curb the increase in the budget in other sectors, with the exception of research and development, which we have supported in line with the Commission's proposal. We have supported all the new areas there is, and we have gone through this proposal with the Commission in great detail, but it is likely that this will also be the subject of the Finnish Presidency. We will certainly not be able to move forward this week in such a way that the current Parliament will deal with the multiannual financial framework, but will then take over the Finnish Presidency. Thank you for the constructive debate, and once again, thank you very much for your parliamentary work in preparing this presidency's programme. It's gonna be good now that it's done with a bunch of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u166	We still have some time and a few who have not been allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u167	Mr President! Mr Ville Niinistö spoke earlier about the influence of information, the threat of spreading false and incorrect information, the raw material of populism. Mr Lindtman and Mrs Tuppurainen have already resigned, I believe, on behalf of the rest of us, from the shocking speech made by Mr Tavio. I myself drew attention to the fact that there are only a minority of patriots here who are in the best interests of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u168	Madam President! In time, when the Finnish people voted to join the EU, security issues took a very central role, at least in my own province, when I was talking to people. They are, of course, up-to-date today. Cohesion policy has played a major role in those outermost regions, and hopefully it will continue to do so. The Prime Minister raised taxation: it is extremely important that each Member State should decide on its own taxation. That's the point. There have also been some different approaches in this Chamber. In time, when the Greek aid package was discussed, there was strong opposition. The Audit Committee has dealt with this issue and it now seems that it will eventually be resolved. But to this European Union and its support: Quite a lot of people are paying attention to whether we have the same benefits as other Member States. I raise one thing, which is small, but nevertheless important to many Finns: fraud policy. When we move from there across the border to Estonia, there are systems quite different from those in Finland, and I think that this should lead to a similar system for fraud policy throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u169	Mr President! Prime Minister on climate change: Katowice Poland immediately said that it was not going to reduce emissions. Germany will increase the use of coal. On the other hand, the government has proposed to remove itself from the EU's front in its fuel blending obligations and to double Finland's obligations, which increases fuel prices by pump. And that also means that the countryside is beginning to empty out even further. Is the Prime Minister going to intervene in such a way that the cost of living in rural areas will not be excessive? Among other things, this obligation to mix will increase fuel prices, including the price of heating.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u170	Mr President! Oh, yes, something narrows it down. It has been suggested in this debate that our will to keep Finland safe would have something to do with us wanting to catch the borders in different colours, as the Chairman of the Left Alliance suggested. This is outrageous. It is normal state care that when we are interested in the safety of Finns, we need a permit to enter the country. A permit is needed and a legal process can be used to enter the country. This should be self-evident, but when you make cheap politics and maliciously label other parties, this is the result. The Commission has proposed an overall level of EUR 1161 billion for the future financial framework from 2021 to 2027. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Will Finland's net contribution rise? What happens to our agriculture? What about cohesion funds?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u171	Would the Prime Minister like to respond? Prime Minister Sipilä, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u172	Mr President! Finland's proposal is a balanced proposal, in which we secure the starting point for agriculture, and the overall level of the budget also settles in relation to the current level. We are also able to support these new actions and new areas, for which Europe is absolutely needed. But, Mr President, I would also like to comment on the Nazi speeches of the people of Peru, the comparison of the EU with Nazi Germany. That was a very degrading speech. It also degrades the victims born in Nazi Germany, and I hope, Mr President, that the Finns of Peru will resign from these speeches during this debate, I hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u173	Do you have any other comments? There are no requests to speak on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u174	Mr President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this speech and continue to point out that there is still a chance of resigning from this speech, which was heard today, and I would also like to say that, on the one hand, it is contradictory to accuse all the other representatives elected by the people in this Chamber of unpatrioticness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u177	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank Prime Minister Sipilä for very clearly expressing his position on the government's side on these speeches on fascism, Nazism. If you think of the history of the European Union, as has been mentioned here, on the basis of what the European Union has been founded on, on the basis of the terrible experiences of World War II and the fact that these will never happen again, and also on all the memories of the victims of fascism in Europe, to their memory, I find it highly inappropriate that this debate should return to these terms, to fascism and to Nazism, in a totally inappropriate context. It degrades this part of European history and the memory of these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u178	Mr President! I too would like to join in thanking everyone who has participated in this debate and I am very pleased with the paper that all parties have produced in cooperation. It is good to prepare for the Finnish Presidency. I also agree with what most people in this Chamber have already said. I would like to resign absolutely from Mr Tavio's speeches in relation to Nazi Germany and I really hope that the leadership of the People's Party will do the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u179	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u180	Mr President! First of all, as far as this referral debate is concerned and also the next government proposal is concerned, I would like to appeal to Parliament to hold a civilised, balanced debate, even though it is a difficult debate. We do not present or mainstream offensive parables, nor do we make unreasonable generalizations that put a group of people in an offensive position, as is easy to do in this debate, but do difficult things as best we can for Finland and the nation. In this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the Citizenship Act so that Finnish citizenship could be lost if you commit an offence of treason, treason or terrorism which has been imposed as the most severe punishment for at least eight years in prison. Such crimes could include crimes committed for terrorist purposes aimed at the vital interests of Finland, such as aggravated assault, killing or murder for terrorist purposes, or also leading a terrorist group, training, recruiting or financing for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. A condition for the loss of citizenship, which is, of course, behind a high threshold, would also be that a person has been sentenced to an absolute sentence of imprisonment of at least five years for this act. The decision to lose citizenship could be taken on the basis of and after a final criminal conviction in Finland. A native Finnish citizen could therefore also lose his or her citizenship. However, a person who has acquired Finnish citizenship, whether native or otherwise, could lose his or her citizenship only if he or she also has the nationality of another State and has sufficient real ties with that other State of citizenship. According to the Constitution and Finland’s international obligations, no one can be excluded from citizenship if the person becomes stateless as a result. Mr President! According to the Government’s asylum policy action plan, certain acts of terrorism are criminalised and then provision is made for the possibility of nullifying Finnish citizenship from persons with dual citizenship who have participated in terrorist activities. The objective of the proposal is certainly widely shared: to have an impact on national security. A person who would have committed a crime seriously endangering Finland’s vital interests could thus also have a significant, serious consequence through the loss of citizenship, and then be expelled from Finland and thus prevent the crime from being repeated in his case. The proposal would not significantly increase the work of the authorities. The court of origin should automatically inform the Finnish Immigration Service of its decision if the sentenced person has Finnish and other national citizenship and these conditions for the offence are met. The decision to lose citizenship would be taken by the Finnish Immigration Service, and the decision could be appealed to the administrative court as usual.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u181	Madam President! The Government’s proposal for a law amending the Citizenship Act and some related laws now defines precise grounds for losing Finnish citizenship. The loss of citizenship involves a great deal of symbolism, but also practices that are now becoming more specific. Citizenship is not lost lightly but always involves serious acts and strong arguments. Due to the recent serious crimes committed by people with foreign background in public, it is good to raise the awareness that Finland does not overlook acts that endanger the security of the state or citizens. On the other hand, the human nature of our country's legislation is demonstrated by the attempt to look after the future of the perpetrator of serious infringements, so that he is not left entirely empty. Finnish citizenship can only be lost by a person who also holds the nationality of another nationality. According to the proposal before us, citizenship could be lost if a person commits an offence of treason, treason or terrorism which has been imposed as the most severe punishment for at least eight years of imprisonment. Such crimes include endangering Finland’s sovereignty, incitement to war, treason, gross treason, espionage, gross espionage, treason and gross treason. Nationality could also be lost due to violation of the prohibition of a chemical weapon for terrorist purposes, violation of the prohibition of biological weapons, wilful destruction of the environment, aggravated assault, aggravated trafficking, hostage-taking, aggravated destruction, serious health endangerment, nuclear explosives, kidnapping, killing, killing and murder. In addition, it would always be necessary for the crime to be directed against Finland’s vital interests. The following terrorist offences could also justify the loss of citizenship: the management of a terrorist group as provided for in Article 3(1) of Chapter 34a of the Criminal Code, the promotion of the activities of a terrorist group, the provision of training for the commission of a terrorist offence, recruitment for the commission of a terrorist offence and the financing of terrorism. On the basis of these crimes, citizenship could also be lost only if the act had been directed specifically against the vital interests of Finland. A person who was born with Finnish citizenship could also lose it, according to the proposal, if he had so many ties with the rest of the country of nationality that losing his citizenship would not constitute undue interference in his private and family life. A decision to lose would always be taken on the basis of a comprehensive review of the situation of the person concerned. The examination would take into account the links he has with the different countries of his nationality, including the skills of the languages used, the place of residence and the history of his stay, family members and relatives, schooling and study, and working and other economic activities. Although I consider the Government's draft law to be generally correct, I would have supported a more radical line here. The obstacles listed above to the loss of citizenship are so comprehensive that they make it virtually impossible to lose citizenship in the form of the current draft law. Humanity is always an important issue, but people who have committed gross crimes against individuals or against the state should not be treated with infinite understanding. A much forgiving view, based on age, is represented by the Government’s proposal that citizenship cannot be lost on the basis of a crime committed at the age of 18. I also wondered whether the attitude towards this age limit was too liberal and whether the age limit could have been 15 years, which is a general age limit in criminal law. Instead, I think it is right, in accordance with the Convention on Citizenship, that children could not lose Finnish citizenship because their parents would lose citizenship because they committed a crime. Madam President! The public wonders why citizenship cannot be removed immediately on the grounds that a person is suspected of a certain serious crime. In response to this, the threshold to intervene in the legal position of your own citizen is high in the removal of citizenship. Loss of citizenship on the basis of certain serious crimes mentioned above would require that the guilt was legally proven and that the criminal conviction was final. On the basis of suspicion or prosecution alone, citizenship cannot be lost. The Government’s proposal to amend the Citizenship Act and the laws contained therein specifies the grounds for the loss of citizenship as necessary. It remains to be seen whether too much tolerance in the proposal will, however, have to be curbed in future proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u182	Mr President! First of all, thank the Minister for being here to present this and also to answer questions. Yes, this bill is certainly necessary and appropriate in the situation we are in. We have examples of many countries: for example, in Denmark, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands and, in future, in Norway, the loss of citizenship is possible in these serious crimes, crimes against the vital interests of the state, although there are many countries in the European Union where there is no such possibility. In recent days, Finns have been shocked by many crimes committed by people of foreign background, such as sexual crimes against minors, attempted arson, bus harassment, and they will certainly also shape the atmosphere of conversation on these issues. I would now ask the Minister to clarify that, with the limit of eight years of maximum punishment and yet these relate specifically to crimes against the interests of the State and crimes committed for terrorist purposes, I understand that international obligations, such as the Convention on Citizenship and the guidelines adopted by the UNHCR, exclude the possibility of abolishing citizenship in these other serious crimes. This is an issue which I am sure will arise in the civil debate, and why, for example, citizenship cannot be taken away from a person who has committed a serious rape of a minor. But I would ask the Minister to answer clearly now whether this is precisely because of international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u183	Madam President! As a principle, losing citizenship for a serious crime is the right thing to do. However, the government proposal has been formulated in such a way that, in practice, these legislative changes would be extremely difficult or almost impossible. Firstly, the new law would apply only to dual citizens, i.e. only to dual citizens. Secondly, the conditions for the loss of citizenship are so strict that those conditions may have been met in the Finnish history of the peace period so far. Citizenship could only be lost if a person has committed an offence of treason, treason or terrorism which has been imposed as the most severe punishment for at least eight years in prison. In addition, it is always necessary that the crime should have been directed against Finland’s vital interests. Legislation that is as clear and understandable as possible should always be sought when drawing up the laws, which minimises the possibility of reflection and interpretation. In this case, the law should be written in such a way that the loss of citizenship would occur automatically when the necessary conditions are met. Now that consideration of the loss of citizenship is being given to the Finnish Immigration Service, I am very sceptical as to whether the loss of citizenship will occur at all. I wonder whether this is the intention of the government's proposal, but I myself am critical of unnecessary legislative work. The primary legislative measure, which has also been called for by the Finns of Finland, should be a more rigorous screening of the granting of citizenship. We have presented, among other things, ten years of required living time, integrity and true language skills. When the criteria for granting citizenship are strict, we do not often find ourselves in a situation where the loss of citizenship is at stake. Finnish citizenship is not a matter of course but a privilege.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u184	Madam President! The law provides for the possibility of losing citizenship in certain situations, and the Minister for the Interior has already opened up these grounds for us. At this point it is good to say out loud that I understand that, in the light of Finland's international obligations, for example, sexual crimes would not even allow the loss of citizenship to be proposed, and now we are talking about serious crimes that threaten national security and terrorist crimes. Indeed, this reform is justified by the fight against terrorism, and surely we all believe that we must turn all the stones within reasonable limits, while respecting the free society, so that we can combat and prevent terrorism. However, the proposal may not give very precise reasons as to the impact this would have on the real possibilities of terrorism. I assume, however, that the Ministry of the Interior has had some idea in this context when this law has been sought, and I hope that we will then be able to think a little more deeply about it in the discussion of the Administrative Committee, and we will also have information that will hopefully justify the importance of this law. In other words, I am interested in whether this is really a way to prevent terrorism or whether it is more about a cosmetic law that wants to send a specific message. I understand that, fortunately, such crimes, which are mentioned here, do not take place very much, and so, of course, the impact of the law can be more communicative. It would be good to find out. The second issue that has raised the debate in connection with the drafting of the law is the question of whether this law puts dual citizens in a different position with others. In other words, it has traditionally been difficult to obtain Finnish citizenship in Finland, but it has not been possible to lose it in this way in the past, and now that we are talking about penalising crimes, it should be clarified that, from the point of view of the legal system, the law treats all Finnish citizens equally, regardless of whether they are dual citizens or not. I believe that this is something that, in accordance with the rule of law, needs to be clarified, although it may seem a little strange to many common senses. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the possibility of double punishment should be considered here, because it is not typical in our case-law that a criminal offence becomes a double penalty, but is referred to as a punishment per crime. It is stated here that the loss of citizenship would not be a separate punishment but is an administrative process linked to a criminal conviction and, in a way, the result of a crime, i.e. not a double penalty. But I would like the Minister to see you open up a little more of this problem, because there will be feedback.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u185	Madam President! Most Finns are born Finnish. When faced with such a proposal, which is intended to upset this position, whatever the reason, it will make it read it more carefully and more precisely, perhaps from the point of view of the rule of law, which was mentioned here and which is absolutely central. It is therefore a very good thing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will hopefully deal with this matter carefully. Loss of Finnish citizenship is a very serious and big thing for anyone who is targeted by it, whatever the reason, and there must be a very high threshold for such a right being taken away from a person. When I read this proposal, I wondered whether it really was the case that we wanted to give the immigration authority such power in this matter that he could make a decision on this. Somehow I would be inclined to think that it would be good to have a normal judicial process in which there is prosecution, justice and then judgment. Now this is where the authority makes the decision, and then you can complain about it. I consider this to be too light on this issue, although I fully understand the seriousness of the matter and what has been claimed here. There are a lot of questions left behind from the point of view of these fundamental rights when you read that this is something we have been thinking about all the way to the end. This is a big task for the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u186	Mr President! Finnish citizenship is a valuable thing. It should not be admitted lightly and can be withdrawn on serious grounds. That is what we discussed with my former police colleague recently about the foreign police. I would like to point out that, when I made those proposals for expulsion, in which citizenship was not withdrawn, of course, but residence permits, there was a much more severe punishment for those foreigners who committed the crimes simply because they were in the expulsion investigation, let alone that expulsion decision will come. The cancellation of citizenship is a serious matter, as Mr Laukkanen has said here, and certainly has a significant impact on the individual's life, but it is equally important to consider the crime he has committed and the effects it may have on the lives of someone else or other people. I would now like to make one more point from the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkäs, who had an excellent proposal here again before, about crimes against vital interests. Now I'd like to take a look at what's going on over there. Even in Oulu there is still an investigation and away from it: if we have a phenomenon like this, where it now clearly appears that such anti-female and anti-equality attitudes are spreading to Finland and through it are being committed — yes, as I say as a female person — a serious crime, can we be seen when we talk about crimes against vital interests that include equality between us women and men?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u187	Mr President! Indeed, we must thank the government for this proposal in the right direction, although it is not going in the right direction at the end of the day, but it is going in the right direction. The Finnish passport is actually one of the most valuable passports in the world, if you look at it with the measure of how many countries it can enter without a visa: apparently more countries than any other country's passport, if I have the right information, but at least we are in the top group. On the other hand, however, Finnish citizenship is even easier to obtain than many other countries. For example, it is much more difficult to obtain Iraqi citizenship than it is to obtain Finnish citizenship. In other words, while making it easier for Finnish citizenship to be lost, it could then be more difficult to obtain citizenship in the same context. During this debate, there have been many shortcomings in this proposal, even though it is going in the right direction. I have written them down, and if we in our committee are able to give a statement that looks like it, then we will take them there for a more specific reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u188	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction. This shows the government's desire to combat terrorist crimes and the idea of terrorism in general. While listening to the minister’s presentation, I was thinking — I applied outside the Chamber for a bill and I couldn’t find, all these legislative proposals had stopped, I couldn’t read the motion, I’m just guessing — that this act will be fulfilled if a double citizen who lives in Finland leaves Finland, even if he goes to a particular country and fights there, say, in terrorist forces or, say, by name, in Isil’s troops. After you have done your own deeds and go back to Finland, how is it if such an act comes to the attention of the Finnish authorities and the matter is investigated and, if necessary, convicted, does this law give you the right to remove Finnish citizenship from a person? I myself think in that way that those who have gone to war voluntarily do not deserve Finnish citizenship according to my sense of law, but it is interesting to see whether it is in this bill and how it has been dealt with. Mr Ronkainen gave a good speech and then wondered in his own speech that the bill only concerns dual citizens. While listening to Mr Ronkainen's speech, I then wondered whether, if there is dual citizenship, it would be possible, in my opinion, to abolish Finnish citizenship. This second nationality will then remain and the person may be removed from the country of nationality. But if a person has only Finnish citizenship and only Finnish citizenship, how will we proceed in that case? The chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola, said that the bill would probably come to the Administrative Committee in due course. I believe and trust that the motion will then be put to work in committee and that this bill will be made very good. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u189	Madam President! There has been a good debate here, and I believe that the Minister will clarify and answer the questions. In particular, I am interested in the extent to which these restrictions on this legislation are directly linked to international treaties binding on Finland, and in what respect is the issue of other, as it were, political considerations. I understand that, even under these international agreements, no one can be left stateless, that is, a person who has only Finnish citizenship cannot be taken away because he would then have no nationality. I am quite convinced that, when there is an eight-year limit here, that is to say, those crimes which have been imposed as the most severe punishment for at least eight years of imprisonment, and then, if there are these crimes, other than those against the interests of terrorism or of the State, which have the possibility of being sentenced to more than eight years of imprisonment, this will certainly provoke debate among the citizens that why, in this case, citizenship cannot be abolished. I'm sure the Minister will be in charge of whether this too comes directly from international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u190	Mr President! This government proposal dates back to the time when Finns' participation in Isil's troops was discussed. After all, most people left Finland in Europe in relation to the population to fight against Syria and the rest of the world, and then at least this need was discussed in this Chamber. Now, this government proposal is certainly a step in the right direction, but I believe that these are very cautious steps. The term could actually be used as a well watered down version of where we should have gone and what kind of need the people would expect. This stems from the possibility of regulating this kind of legislation in the European Union, of ratifying it here, and a great many countries did not take this step. But I noticed from the government's proposal that Denmark has a very strict line on this, too, and that attempts have been made to go even further than it has been possible to do. In my view, such a minimum eight-year sentence is incomprehensible because, for example, this does not include a terrorist group's offences of leadership other than that of the other, because the maximum sentence in the second part, the offences committed with terrorist intent, is six years and Article 2(1) is 12 years, which would only apply to that part. In itself, even a terrorist offence would not pose such a threat that you could lose your citizenship, which, in my view, is a very bad thing. As far as the debates here are concerned, when Mrs Ruoho and Mr Laukkanen estimate that Finnish citizenship should not be lost lightly, and you were concerned that this could even lead to that, I do not think that Finnish citizenship should be taken for granted to people who also have citizenship of another country and who are involved here in the crime. Personally, I would be prepared to support legislation which, on a much lighter basis, would remove second citizenship, that is to say Finnish citizenship, from foreigners who commit gross crimes in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u193	And the reply, Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u194	Mr President! Thank you for the very pertinent and good questions and comments on this serious issue. First of all, more representatives here, at least representatives Räsänen, Ruoho and Niikko, have drawn attention to this very definition of crime, as if it was only terrorism, or whether there could be other crimes that are clearly attacking Finnish society and the fundamental values of society, such as these serious sexual crimes. Here, too, Mr Räsänen is on the right track in that the challenge is that, in fact, this point is not because of the EU, but rather because of the agreements concluded within the Council of Europe, citizenship is regulated in a way that directly suggests that a serious crime that endangers national security, the vital interests of the state, under certain conditions, can make this possible, but it is more difficult to obtain a definition of, for example, gross child rape. But I personally assume that, from the perspective of the Finnish sense of justice, our national existence is also determined by certain fundamental values, which absolutely include the physical integrity of the child and a certain gender approach. And I would encourage the Committee on Administrative Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to look at this issue already in the context of this report if we could also see a way in which, for example, we could extend this issue in the case of aggravated child rape, which is now the subject of another draft law in Parliament as a new criminal offence. But this is a challenging job precisely because of these international obligations, and it must of course be understood that the threshold is very high and this is not a question of extending the criminal code, but of an administrative decision to prevent such strategically dangerous people from being citizens in Finland. A reference to the Citizenship Act was also made to whether Mr Ronkainen was a representative. In any case, next year we will have a revision of the Citizenship Act in the Ministry of the Interior, and I believe that we should also take further demands here on what is required for Finnish citizenship: a psychological test, a longer waiting period, so on. There are no easy ways and no magic tricks, but this is very serious, and today I gave instructions to the head of the Ministry of the Interior that this is also the way to prepare. The strictness of the terms that there must be such ties to another country and so on: these also come from the basis of our Constitution, that no one is left entirely empty, and I claim that the law in this respect would be very similar, even if the present Finnish Party were involved in the government. But here too, I am encouraging the Committee on Administration, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to look at whether there are points which are excessively difficult and whether there is room for interpretation. The Constitutional Committee ultimately determines its relationship between Finland's international obligations and the margin of manoeuvre of this law. In fact, I think that this is an important precedent in many ways. There will certainly be rare cases, and it must also be stated why this is the Finnish Immigration Service, that this is not a judgment, but an administrative decision, as it were, to safeguard Finland's existence in these exceptional attacks on Finland. And of course that decision can then be appealed to the Court of Justice, to which Mr Laukkanen referred here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u195	Half an hour has been spent on this subject, so the debate and the debate will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u196	Now we will continue with the debate on item 9 which was suspended earlier in this plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u197	Mr President! This proposal continues the government's series of proposals which are heading in the right direction, although perhaps a little too small and, in particular, too late. I don't know if I'm here to sense some kind of closeness to the election, that these are going to pop up. In spring 23.5. there was a bill in the referral debate proposing stricter conditions for Finnish citizenship. I took the floor in the debate on the referral of that bill, and these government proposals are now responsible for two of the three aspects that I have put forward. I pointed out that Finnish citizenship is not a fundamental right or a human right for a foreigner, but a privilege. The granting of Finnish citizenship is a powerful legal act that allows for many things, and it is one of the best citizenships in the world. I felt it was a problem that, at the time, citizenship could not be withdrawn for any reason, not even for double citizens because of any terrorism or other reason, because there was no provision in the law that would allow citizenship to be withdrawn. I believe that this was a major problem because I think that dual citizenship and Finnish citizenship are being granted too easily at all. We could easily tighten up the demands of citizenship in terms of language skills, integration, jobs and so on, if we wanted to. We would have every chance of doing so within the framework of international agreements, human rights and EU standards, but we have still not wanted to do that at national level – or even the majority of Parliament has not wanted to do so, but the Finns of Finland could do it tonight. However, even the wish to take Finnish citizenship away from dual citizens on certain grounds is partly answered in this government proposal, and I think that is something to be supported in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u198	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u199	Mr President! In the rule of law, asylum seekers' affairs and their rights must also be dealt with in accordance with laws and regulations, and they must be given good legal certainty. This legal certainty also includes, under certain conditions, the possibility of a re-application if it is apparent that, at the first stage of processing of the application, essential elements have not been addressed for reasons beyond the applicant’s control. However, it is also a fact that re-applications have potential for abuse. They are also used, understandably in themselves, for the purpose of prolonging living in Finland in a situation where a valid negative decision has entered the residence permit but the person does not want to leave the country. This is where the Government proposes to amend the law in such a way that the first re-application will no longer automatically suspend the enforcement of a final decision on rendition, but that the Finnish Immigration Service would always examine the conditions for admissibility quickly, and if they were not fulfilled, the renunciation would continue to be carried out even if the application had been lodged, so that it was found that it was submitted for the purpose of immediate removal. Regrettably, such situations continue to arise, such as the situation in which the return preparations have been made, the person is even being returned by the police and even if a re-application is submitted at the airport. A second or later re-application, which is also beginning to exist, would no longer prevent the execution of a previous proselytism decision even on the threshold that exists for the first re-application. There is, of course, a need to reduce the misuse of re-applications and to direct the applicant to present new grounds for his application as early as possible in the process, i.e. in the first application or in the case of a court hearing on it, if he has appealed the first decision before the court. You always have the right to do that, don't you? The applicant is also required to state the reasons why a new point was not submitted until the re-application. The second amendment is that in the future, the submission of a re-application will no longer allow the immediate continuation of work. After all, in the event of a legitimate negative decision, the right to work will be suspended, and so far the person who submitted the application for asylum has, in practice, been able to renew the right to work immediately. This is, of course, the most complex point, at least personally, at this point, because we naturally hope that those who are staying in Finland will be active and work, but in practice there has been a process of interest in submitting a re-application, even if there are no grounds, because you can continue your life and its legal work in Finland, even if there is no real justification for international protection and a re-application. The need for new regulation is clear to the government. In recent years, there has been a clear increase in the number of re-applications, which was not explained by the normal continuation of the 2015 number of applications. This year, for example, 47% of asylum applications are re-applications. The processing of re-applications without new criteria is already congesting the asylum application procedure and increasing the cost of applications. They also increase mistrust of the functioning of the system, as the stack of justified applications is increasing and the cycle of delay applications is undermining the acceptance of the asylum system as a whole. As a result, the possibility of abuse of re-applications is reversed against the relevant asylum seekers. Mr President! At the same time, it is proposed to amend the Aliens Act so that the travel document of the applicant for international protection, i.e. the passport, can be taken over by the authorities until they have been granted a residence permit or leave the country. The aim of this is to ensure the smooth running of the procedure in such a way that the missing passport does not prevent the identification of the applicant or the removal of the person who has received a negative decision, as is very often the case at present. The possibility for the applicant to do business, for example at a bank or in other situations, will be secured through case-by-case practical arrangements. The proposal also proposes to amend the conditions for the reunification of an unaccompanied minor by interpreting the rule on the minority of a family member in accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in such a way that family reunification is possible on the basis of the fact that the application has been lodged — whether or not there was a minor, even if during the course of the examination of this procedure it had become of an adult age. Mr President! It is also proposed to amend the Act on Foreigners in the same context so that the holder of an employee’s residence permit, when applying for a residence permit extension, would also have the possibility of seeking employment for an employer who is active in a sector other than that mentioned in the worker’s residence permit. This is a problem at the moment. Even if you have legally been completely blameless in Finland for a year working and then there comes an exchange of industry or work assignments, you may run into an availability test and lose your residence permit, and you are on top of nothing. This does not make sense to me, and it is good that this can be corrected here. However, in order to prevent abuse of the authorisation procedure, it would always be necessary for a foreigner to have worked on the basis of an employee’s residence permit for at least one year. The amendment thus facilitates the occupational mobility of workers and reduces unemployment and paperlessness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u200	Madam President! In general, the Government's proposed amendment to the foreign law aims to reduce the potential for abuse of re-applications and to bring more transparency to the permit process overall. The amendment has come out of the need to streamline the asylum procedure and to make savings on the costs of applications and reception. The draft law suggests that the admissibility of a re-application would require that the application contains or is based on new elements or criteria which significantly increase the likelihood that the applicant should be considered as a beneficiary of international protection. This amendment would clearly raise the existing application practice to the level of the law. It should also be shown that, for reasons beyond his/her own control, the applicant has not been able to state the reasons for his/her re-application in support of his/her previous application. The proposal also proposes to amend the provisions on the enforcement of the decision on refusal in cases where the applicant has submitted a first or a subsequent application for a renewal. The first re-application would not prevent the enforcement of a final decision of refusal under an earlier application where the re-application is intended only to prevent or delay the immediate enforcement of this decision. In addition, a second re-application would no longer prevent the enforcement of an earlier refusal decision, irrespective of the procedure in which the previous application has been settled. I welcome the proposal to take over the authority, i.e. the police, the border inspection authority or the Finnish Immigration Service the passport or other travel document of the person applying for international protection until the applicant has been granted a residence permit or leaves the country. Mr President! The amendments proposed by the Board of Directors to the current Aliens Act are in many ways to be supported. The Finnish Immigration Service has for a long time been suffering from permit processing. This has caused many kinds of human suffering for the applicants themselves, who have had to wait a long time for a permit decision and live in a state of uncertainty, perhaps even for a long time. On the other hand, current practice has allowed for an ongoing appeal procedure for officials and for the system to be unreasonably employed, which in itself has fed the process of licensing bureaucracy. The proposed changes would result in cost savings as the authorisation procedure would become clearer and shorter and the maintenance costs of those identified as unauthorised asylum seekers would also be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u201	Madam Speaker! The aim of reducing the abuse of re-applications is to be welcomed and understood, but I would point out that during the consultation process several parties have expressed their concern about the impact of this amendment on the legal protection of applicants, in particular in the light of recent legislative changes in access to legal aid. For example, President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Pekka Vihervuori, has criticised the amendments made during this parliamentary term to the Aliens Act, about which he has said that they have not at least improved the legal protection of asylum seekers. The specific problem raised is that the applicant may not always be able to provide all known criteria at the time of the first examination of the application for different reasons. For example, among asylum seekers there are persons who, while here in Finland, have converted to Christianity from Islam, and we know that the return of a Muslim who is openly converted to Christianity, for example, leads them to life risk and that this kind of return is not in principle possible. In such cases, there may be a different basis for the application in the case of a re-application than in the case of the first application. I hope you will comment on whether this will lead to excesses for these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u202	Mr President! The number of applications for re-applications for refusal of asylum has increased significantly compared with previous years. The statistics of the Finnish Immigration Service indicate that 3648 asylum applications have been submitted in Finland during the January to October period of this year, almost half of which have been re-applications. Between January and June, 1448 decisions were taken for re-applications, of which 234 were positive and 463 were negative. 664 applications were not examined. The case was closed in 82 cases. These applications and re-applications employed the authorities enormously. From the decisions taken, you can see that in more than half of the cases dealt with, the first decision did not change. In this way, officials did unnecessary, unnecessary and costly work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u205	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Mykkänen, for the public's sense of justice. Thank you, Mr Hongisto, and, as you mentioned, you have also asked a written question on this subject in the past. The proposal has an excellent objective: to reduce the potential for abuse of the re-application procedure for international protection and to direct applicants to present all the facts they know relevant to the application for international protection. Yes, the criteria for international protection, if and when they really exist, already exist for the first time when an application is submitted — I am sure that for the vast majority of asylum seekers. It is proposed that the conditions for admissibility of a re-application be laid down separately. Mr President! Like the asylum procedure, all aid is always being misused. This is also my experience from the world. It cannot, however, prevent us from helping people in need, but must, as with this excellent change presented by the excellent Minister for the Interior, prevent these abuses. I'm going to have to rush to the church council meeting in Espoo, but at the same time it occurred to me that these, who make these re-applications, have one of the reasons why religion is then the basis for reapplying for asylum. But it is true that I do have experience of it, that those people have truly — these are my own experiences — exchanged faith and then, in their own country, can be persecuted on the basis of their Christianity. That's the point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u206	Madam President! The Government's proposal on amendments to the Aliens Act is essentially a step in the right direction, and there are many good elements in the proposal. However, there is still a long way to go from the implementation of the Government's immigration policy action programme. In particular, it is necessary to restrict and clarify the right of asylum seekers to work. Labour immigration is completely different from humanitarian immigration and should not be confused. You may even ask, quite rightly, whether the asylum seeker needs to be admitted to work before the granted asylum. Don't you think it's a good idea to focus jobs, training activities and language teaching on those who are going to stay here? However, the most significant and critical flaw in the proposal is the abolition of labour supply considerations. This would apply for a residence permit extension for an employee, which in turn is a step towards a low-cost labour market formed by foreigners. In the name of occupational mobility, the Government's proposal proposes to waive the need-based examination when granting a residence permit extension. The government itself estimates that the legislative change would increase labour supply, especially in the cleaning sector, industry, construction and metal industries, but also in the horticultural and agricultural sectors. It is precisely the low-paid and low-skilled tasks in which we would see competition with our own citizens and with the corresponding workers of the world as a whole. There is no shortage of employees in Finland. We have more than 170,000 unemployed and the hidden unemployed, those who are reluctant to work part-time, and those who take different courses and work trials on top of that. So we've got a lot of employees. It is a question of whether we have jobs with real pay. The current needs test must be maintained in all forms. Sweden is a living example of this. There, the removal of the needs test in 2008 brought foreign workers to these very low-wage sectors, which already had an oversupply of labour. Finland has a system very similar to that in Sweden. So we will see exactly the same phenomenon here too, if there is a compromise on the need-tested approach. And if a foreigner comes to Finland to work for less, is it not cheap labour and wage dumping?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u207	Madam President! Let me start with a positive: from the Greens' point of view, the partial abandonment of access is a welcome idea. Joint efforts will be made to ensure that the rules of working life are maintained in such a way that no one is oppressed or discriminated against in any form. We also welcome the fact that, as already required by the European Court of Justice, the facilitation of family reunification, which has arrived alone as a minor, will be achieved in this proposal. But then to the criticism: the Greens believe that this proposal is, in many respects, quite damaging. Numerous contributors have pointed out that the proposed changes pose a high risk of Finland violating the return ban. This is what Amnesty, UNHCR, Refugee Aid and Refugee Advice Centre have said. We also believe that new blackmail should not take place until the synergies of previous changes have been properly clarified. We consider this proposal to be a continuation of the regime's previous blackmail against the status of asylum seeker. These deteriorations are often cumulative and their interactions should be considered. This has already been investigated and is still under way. However, when it comes to international protection, we are talking about fundamental human rights, in the final analysis, about the right of man to life. In making these changes, particular attention should be paid to fundamental and human rights. In this proposal, we believe that this has not been done enough, nor has it sufficiently assessed the impact on vulnerable groups. I hope that we will then go through this thoroughly in committee. The emphasis on the initial stage of this proposal is a worthy objective, but we believe that it is incompatible with the government's previous legislative changes, such as the reduction of the limits on legal aid for asylum seekers and the deadlines for appeals, and we do not believe that this proposal will actually be implemented. And in general, the logic that re-applications are considered primarily to be tasks of delaying and preventing removal is, in my view, peculiar because there are so many individual stories in the background. And, of course, it is clear that this system is also being used in different ways. But once again, in the rule of law, we should look at all individuals as individuals, not primarily as a representative of a reference group. There are also a large number of people who have the last chance to get their needs for international protection properly assessed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are, in fact, on existential matters with regard to the people to whom they apply. It is clear that some also use the system for fraudulent purposes, but many are also genuinely desperate and feel that their lives are in danger. It is often also genuinely at risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u208	Mr President! The problem with this proposal relates, first and foremost, to these proposals on the limitation of re-applications. The Minister's presentation also showed what this problematic thinking is in this context. In other words, the starting point is that there is only abuse through re-applications, and no attention was paid to the fact that we have had serious problems in the asylum process in Finland, which is one of the reasons why more of these re-applications have also been made. In addition, of course, as the number of asylum seekers increases, the number of re-applications is likely to increase. What has happened in this respect must also be seen as part of the increase in the number of asylum seekers. A report has been published today which has looked at the weakenings that have been made earlier in this parliamentary term in the legal aid system for asylum seekers. This report directly recommends correcting the decisions taken by the government. Demonstrating the risks that civil society, the Bar Association and the opposition have warned about, i.e. those related to restrictions on application periods and access to legal aid. And one of the drawbacks raised here is also assistance in the early stages of seeking asylum, i.e. the presence of an assistant during interviews with the Finnish Immigration Service. In other words, these are the flaws and problems that we must urgently resolve in Finland at the moment, so that everyone can have the certainty that our legal processes will work as they should under the rule of law, and not leave now, until they have been corrected and viewed as a whole, to make further restrictions which, if implemented, will undermine the legal protection of asylum seekers in a situation where, for example, re-applications are made for reasons such as errors in the first reading of the application or new issues that should have been addressed, but that is not the case. In this respect, I find this government proposal ill-founded, and it is also regrettable that the Minister, in his own speech, did not pay more attention to the problems that currently exist in this legal aid system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u209	Madam President! In fact, Mr Andersson has described this situation very well and accurately, and I share his concerns. The line of this government has now clearly been made clear. It has been consistent with the fact that it has undermined the legal protection of asylum seekers. This cannot in any way be regarded as acceptable and acceptable, nor in this proposal either. As has already been said here by Mr Räsänen, the President of our Supreme Administrative Court has taken a stand and many other legal scholars, particularly lawyers with experience in immigration matters, such as Mr Punto, have written extensively about undermining the legal protection of immigration in this government. I do think it is a very bad thing that when there are so many words and so many points of view that continue to be clear, then we will continue in the same way. Bringing forward new proposals that do not take account of these issues that have been raised earlier. Finland violates return legislation, international law and case law. I agree with that. I would like to see a more substantive debate on this issue, because I have understood that the Minister: The mute has a very broad understanding and understanding of this whole, and I am therefore a little surprised that such a presentation comes under his eyes. And I would also like to have some further clarification as to why we are now going in this direction, but at the same time we want to remove the person who is then applying for a retrial.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u210	Minister Mykkänen, reply, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u211	Mr President! Thank you for your comments and your questions. This is where representatives Räsänen and Andersson have referred to the question of legal aid. It is, of course, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. In fact, today, they published an interim report on it and are examining the need for change, particularly in relation to the resourcing of legal aid, also in the light of the follow-up. Mr Räsänen and others, too, drew attention to the question of those who turned to Christianity, and therefore, for their part, turning to Christianity in the middle of the process must, in principle, be interpreted as a non-applicant reason, which has therefore changed his security situation in the country of origin and will therefore be discussed, so that this government proposal does not in principle change the situation of the applicant. Of course, this is not an automatic basis for asylum, but it must be assessed with a very difficult consideration who, as it were, has turned around with what mind and what his true position in the country of return would be. Mr Ronkainen referred here to why the applicant is in general entitled to work. I think it is very important to have asylum seekers here who prefer to be active. Those who are in themselves a few asylum seekers who are able to find legal, normal employment, paid employment are also entitled to this. It's in the best interests of all of us. If a person is in a year’s property, like a garrison without doing anything, it is not likely to make it easier for them or for us to be here. For the purpose of the review of the We currently have more vacancies than ever before. We have more than one-third of establishments in each province saying that they are suffering from the fact that they cannot grow because they cannot find enough factors, that is, the unemployed and the employers just do not face up to it. Work situations change, and if you are stuck with one of its employers, as is the case with the current availability-tested system for further permits, then that will lead to exploitation situations and underpaid pay. I would argue that, instead of even having the opportunity to change employers when they have been legally resident here for a year, there will be fewer cases of exploitation of the labour force, and, of course, the supervision of the terms of employment and the background of the employer will also be carried out in cases where there would be no further consideration of access for further permits in the future. In addition, foreign surveillance is being stepped up. And I would also like to thank the House for the plans to have a small additional budget for the foreign police control next year. Mr Laukkanen and Mr Andersson have referred here to the urgent need to resolve the problems of legal protection for asylum seekers and only then perhaps to see whether there are too many re-applications. Yes, I genuinely say that we must also urgently resolve the legitimacy of the entire asylum system from the perspective of Finns. Many find it wrong that almost EUR 200 million this year will be spent on processing applications from those who came here years ago and some of them misusing re-applications in order to prolong and receive reception money and reception services — of course, only some, not all of them. However, this system must be corrected, and I claim that the current situation is turning against genuine asylum seekers. They are also being protected here. At the same time, of course, as Members have pointed out, I have launched an internal analysis which found some thirty areas for improvement. There have been quality control interpreters hired to the Finnish Immigration Service already in the Darin and Arabic languages, it has been better ensured that the first interview and the one preparing it are told what is essential in order to get the first reading done in a high-quality manner and there will also be less need for court appeals or return. And yes, the courts have returned those cases where it has been seen that things have not been in order. They have now been dealt with in the Finnish Immigration Service this autumn on a big issue and quite carefully that there has not been too much hastily done about it, and that is good because legal protection is also important. Mr Laukkanen also referred to the fact that there have also been different statements made by legal scholars on this subject, but no one has, as far as I know, said a bad word about this cutting-off of the rotation of applications. It is precisely to continue to ensure its quality, to ensure that we are able to focus on the re-applications that have a genuinely important basis, such as turning to Christianity, so that these things that are done for delay do not increase the stack and take resources and also take it away from the Finns' approval of this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u212	Mr President! Yes, this is also about the legitimacy of the Finnish rule of law and the legitimacy of the judicial system in the eyes of many Finnish citizens. The number of applications returned from the administrative court has reached a record number at the moment. They have also been on the rise due to the weakening of the legal aid system and I checked that at the beginning of this year 16 % positive decisions have been taken on re-applications. Is it a lot or a little — but it is 16%, i.e. applicants who have only been given a positive decision during the re-application phase. Yes, I think that these figures also undermine the legitimacy of our rule of law, the legitimacy of our asylum system. Now the government is making further losses to legal certainty before these old problems have been resolved. That is the main problem with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u213	Mr President! I myself have spent about 12 years working with asylum seekers at the reception centre and then later, and from my own experience, I can say that by far most of these re-applications do not provide any new basis for a residence permit in Finland and, forgive me, also for these converts to Christians or gays, how do you say it, most of them are fakes — or at least I doubt their beliefs. Then, here, representatives of Parviainen and Andersson called for this assessment of synergies to be made, that what has been the result of these previous government measures. What has followed is that the number of applications for the first time has collapsed — the number of applications for the first time has collapsed. Now only these re-applications will be received more than before, but such people who come to Finland for the first time to apply for asylum,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u214	Mr President! I would also point out that these bodies, which were used here as experts, are more concerned, so it is clear that the Association of Experts is trying to secure the good business of its members on the issue of asylum. There's a lot of money coming out of there for society. I would point out to the Greens that international protection is by no means a subjective right but is based on the needs test that is being carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service and the law. And I would also correct from the Minister's speech that it is in no way acceptable for asylum seekers to deliberately stretch their application with these re-applications, as you said in your previous speech. This government proposal is in the right direction, of course it will be a little late and quite gentle. In this right way, the renewal of the right to work will be tightened up, but on the other hand, like a Trojan horse, it will open up the possibility of reducing the needs test. However, it is good that something is being done about this nonsense and mockery of the Finnish asylum system. According to publicly available information, re-application processes have been initiated up to five times by the same persons. This cannot be the case. In the State of Justice, cases are dealt with, as a rule, once per person in accordance with the means of legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u215	Mr. Speaker! I would like to remind Mr Eerola that freedom of religion is a fundamental right for all those living in Finland, including asylum seekers, and I do find it rather offensive that people are suspected of being false. Let me remind you that if a person has openly renounced Islam, he has been baptized in a Christian way, hardly in a potential country of return, such as Afghanistan, those who would persecute him would suspect such faith as a fake. What is essential here is that a person may be persecuted. That is why I myself am concerned about this draft law that there is a risk that the legal protection of these people will be undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer give replies to this debate — we have exceeded the window by 10 minutes, we have common rules of the game, and those rules of the game should be respected — already there are many more. The Minister will only have one minute to speak on the spot. You don't have to bother talking to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u217	Mr President! Thank you. In brief: Mr Andersson referred to the fact that the courts return applications or 16 % of the applications for renewal go through: that is why the court hearings are a matter of priority here that the administrative court considers whether procedural errors have been committed and that they are being corrected. These procedural errors have in themselves accounted for less than 5% of the returns. Then there have been technical reasons for returning a few more. This is a good thing, because then we will have to go through it, but it must also end at some point, and this re-application in its current form will never end if the applicant does not decide to do so himself. 16% of the searches have been approved — I believe that the 16% are, as a rule, exactly the kind of applications that will continue to move forward. There are some arguments that have been put forward that have been new, not only genuinely independent of the applicant, but also legitimate for asylum or national protection. There's no point in worrying about that. Instead, this will allow things to come quickly to the table, there will be enough qualified interpreters, handlers, when things that have been done for delay are not blocked. The main problem over the last three years has been that when you have come ten times more
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u218	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended and the proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u219	We will now resume the debate on item 10, which was suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u220	Mr President! This is indeed the government's proposal to amend the Aliens Act. Although there are some positive aspects of this proposal, I would like to highlight this change proposed with regard to the issue of the worker's residence permit. This proposal proposes that the applicant for a residence permit for an employee should have the opportunity to apply for an employer who is active in a sector other than that mentioned in the previous residence permit. A foreigner would be required to have worked for at least one year on the basis of an employee’s residence permit. I have drawn attention to this issue because I do believe that the overall maintenance of access testing is a very important issue for the functioning of the labour market, so that there is enough work for Finnish workers as well. Then it is only if there is a genuine shortage of labour in a sector that consideration can be given to granting a residence permit to a foreign job seeker and worker. In my opinion, this proposal may lead to the circumvention of this procedure in some cases, and I am very critical of this point in this government proposal. We Finns do not want this availability consideration to be mitigated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u221	Mr President! I support Mr Savio's concern about this reduction in labour needs, even because it is quite illogical in relation to the proposal itself, by the way, because there are tightening up that applying for further treatment would not automatically lead to a continuation of the work permit, so why should it now, on any logical basis, be reduced at all in this context? I believe that this ideological idea of confusing the asylum process and labour immigration is in itself wrong and harmful, because they are two completely different things. The asylum process will assess whether a person is in need of international protection. If he is in need of international protection, it is understandable that he is also given the right to work in a country where he receives international protection. On the other hand, if he does not receive that protection, he must leave the country and then there is no reason for him to have a job in the country. These permits should be processed and then determined whether a person can remain in the country and should leave unless he can remain in the country. Generally speaking, it is bad that immigration is referred to as a single phenomenon that it is not, and I believe that the confusion of these concepts, namely labour immigration and the asylum process, in legislation, leads to a damaging increase in such a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u222	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 24/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u223	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on housing-based social security in cross-border situations. The law would lay down the conditions governing the residence and employment of a person and would apply, inter alia, to situations where, when deciding on the payment of social security benefits, a person moving abroad from Finland is required to decide whether a person is regarded as an employee or is resident in Finland. Under the Government's proposal, the maximum period for the comparison of broadcasting and development cooperation agents with persons resident in Finland would be limited to five years. The legislative amendment would mean that broadcasters and development partners would have to come to their country of origin after five years for at least six months in order to maintain the right to Finnish social security. This change unnecessarily hampers the position of broadcasting and development workers and the organisation of life in developing countries. It is not appropriate to set a time limit for the achievement of the objectives of broadcasting and development cooperation, which undermines long-term and long-term cooperation in the field of broadcasting and development. Foreign postings usually take a long time because the tasks require a good knowledge of the local language and culture. It is also assumed that setting a time limit would increase fixed-term employment and hinder recruitment in broadcasting and development co-operation communities. Mr President! I'll make an amendment. My amendment proposes that the persons involved in broadcasting and development cooperation be treated as persons living in Finland for an unlimited period of time, depending on the length of the working period, and that the maximum period should not be limited to five years as set out in the Government proposal. The proposed amendment concerns the first draft law of the Government and, more specifically, Article 12 of Chapter 3. I would like to suggest that the paragraph in question should be adopted as such: ‘The status of persons residing in Finland shall 1) an employee posted from Finland by a Finnish employer, 2) an employee employed abroad by a Finnish employer, (3) full-time researcher or grantee.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u224	Mr President! I support Mr Östman's proposal, which has been distributed to the tables and which also states that the five-year limit laid down in this article does not apply to a posted worker who is an employee posted abroad by a Finnish missionary organisation, a congregation or a registered religious community and who is posted by that employer and employed by him during the missionary work. Similarly, this five-year deadline would not apply to a development cooperation actor working abroad. I support the fact that this change proposed by the government would, in fact, make it unnecessarily difficult for those involved in broadcasting and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u225	Mr President! I also support the proposals made by Mr Östman, and I hope that the committee will have understood this in such a way that the social security of these broadcasters and development partners has not been undermined, as is now the case with this reduction in the time limit. This is an absolutely contradictory proposal in terms of improving social security for those who move from abroad and undermining social security for those who are Finnish citizens and receive their wages here and who have an employer here and who are going on to valuable missionary or development cooperation. Then their social security will be weakened. I'm surprised a performance like this has been brought here in the first place. However, this is in a certain way in line with the unfortunate objectives of this government in relation to immigration and the weakening of its legal security and, at the same time, with the continuing weakening of development cooperation. It has taken place throughout this whole three-and-a-half-year period and is a very sad part of Finnish history. During this term of government, Finland will indeed weaken the position of those in development cooperation, both financially and in terms of social security. This should not be allowed, and I hope that, when the new government comes, it will correct the enormous injustices that have now been committed here, and Finland could once again catch up with the good reputation it has as a factor in development cooperation. I hope that this proposal, which is now here, will be carefully read and understood that it is still possible to save this part of at least this issue, that these people in development cooperation will not have to go into this kind of yo-yo life, where you will be forced to return home. Children may have been born there abroad, are there at school and will have to come back here to a school where they may not understand the language at all. It is completely incomprehensible that we are going in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u226	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen asked us to read this motion carefully, and I noticed that the remainder of the motion was not read out, so I would ask you to complete my presentation here: In other words, paragraphs 2 to 5 would continue to be as in the Government’s proposal188/2018, but then: ‘The five-year time limit laid down in this paragraph does not apply to the posted worker, who is a worker sent by the Finnish Delegation Association, the Church or the registered religious community to the rest of the world, who is sent by the employer and Furthermore, the five-year deadline does not apply to the development co-operation factor working abroad. The employees provided for in this paragraph shall be in the position of a person resident in Finland for an unlimited period of time, depending on the length of the period of employment.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u227	Mr President! I think it's this representative. Mr. Östman's motion is perfectly justified. However, now that we have considered how we would improve the position of Finns abroad, and for example we have now made it possible to vote for Finns abroad, I see that we do for these Finns who are, for example, in development cooperation and who live away from Finland for a long time and do not necessarily come here sometimes... I do not see the need for us to now leave them out and force them to perhaps go back to live here for a while, until then they return abroad to various development or missionary projects, as is stated here. When you think that this is not about a huge crowd of people, it seems somewhat pointless, too, from the point of view that we are going to separate in this way. We know that many Finns who are involved in development cooperation projects around the world may indeed be there for many years in a row and may also be moving from one project to another quite naturally when they have knowledge of that area and its needs, and in that way it is natural to enjoy long periods of time in the same areas and to move from one job to another without coming to visit here in Finland, and, on the other hand, it may also be quite difficult to arrange daily life in order to come here for a while just to keep the housing-based social security system and, in a way, to fill the letter of this law. In that sense, I do not think it is justified that these groups should now be excluded from this, and I consider this proposal by Mr Östman quite justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u228	Mr President! In the interests of safety, so that we can vote on this representative: With regard to Mr Östman's proposal, the excellent proposal, I would like to say that I am indeed in full support of it as it has been distributed to the tables and also as Mr Östman has just read.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u229	Mr President! I would like to make it clear that I am a little surprised, perhaps even a little disapproving, that the committee has not heard any NGOs in this regard — not foreign aid from the Church, not Fida, not many other organisations, but entirely, only staff and labour organisations, but not any NGOs. Although this applies to them to the greatest extent, they have not been asked to do so in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u230	Mr President! Mr Östman, among other things, pointed out in his previous speeches that this draft law would create problems, among other things, with regard to the role of development partners, and these views are in many respects very relevant. The Finns Party also wishes to point out that this bill is justified, among other things, by the need for immigrants in Finland to respond to the shortage of labour in certain sectors and that the potential of immigrants already present in the country should be identified and exploited more effectively. It is true that the employment rate of immigrants is clearly lower than that of the general population, and in this respect, it is good to identify and address these problems, but I do not believe that the means put forward are at all justified in this regard. It should also be borne in mind that we believe that the economic impact of the change has been clearly assessed at a low level of around EUR 2 million, and we believe that, since the rights that are guaranteed by social security are ultimately dependent on the economic resources of society, a much clearer and more justified proposal should definitely have been made. We will come back to this subject at the second reading of the draft law, in which we are going to propose the rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u231	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 25/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u232	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 10/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u233	Mr President! So, as chairman of the committee, I present the committee's report, but as a member of the committee, I have signed an objection to this motion. This is, therefore, a proposal from the government for a so-called redundancy law, which amends the grounds for dismissal based on the person of the Employment Contracts Act, and, in addition, the Unemployment Protection Act, which amends the so-called 'deposit days' or 'unremunerated days'. The starting point of this government proposal is that small companies should take greater account of the size of the company when overall consideration is given to individual termination. The committee notes that Prime Minister Juha The Sipilä Government is committed to implementing reforms, particularly in order to increase the willingness of SMEs to employ, in order to create jobs in this country. To this end, we have already had a number of measures in the field of labour law, such as the extension of the probationary period, the reduction of the obligation to take back an employee after dismissal and the possibility of concluding a fixed-term contract of employment for the long-term unemployed. In the Government’s explanatory memorandum, in the explanatory memorandum to this law, the employment impact of reducing the protection against dismissal cannot be reliably assessed on the basis of existing research data. According to a report received by the committee, the level of employment security affects both dismissals and recruitment, and therefore the net impact on employment is theoretically unclear. The most reliable empirical studies suggest that the effect may be positive but is likely to be small. On the basis of feedback received from the business field, however, the individual basis for dismissal is a key factor in whether the company dares to recruit new employees. As a result of the facilitation of dismissal, redundancies and employment in the company, both are likely to increase, and the turnover of employees will increase. Even if this overall impact on employment remains small, there is evidence that a lower level of employment security increases labour mobility and thus increases the productivity of companies. Apparently, when people change more rapidly, employees are more likely to end up in a job assignment where the skills and skills of that worker are used effectively. The committee's report states that productivity growth is also likely to raise wages over time. There is also some evidence that this reform could contribute to equality, as the higher turnover of employment relationships increases the likelihood of employment among groups in difficult labour market situations. We know that the majority of job opportunities are created in small companies and their desire to create new jobs is important from the perspective of the national economy as a whole. On the other hand, in small companies, the costs of incorrect recruitment are relatively higher than in large companies. The committee considers the government's intention to take the number of employees of the employer into account as a new factor in the overall consideration of the factual and serious reasons for dismissal to be appropriate, and the committee supports the adoption of the legislative proposals with the following observations. In the overall assessment, the adequacy of the grounds for dismissal should be assessed on the basis of all circumstances in the case. The law does not specify what is relevant. The Government's proposal on the Employment Contracts Act states that this means that the adequacy of the grounds for dismissal should be assessed by an overall assessment of all the circumstances in the case. The assessment of individual dismissals includes, for example, the nature of the employee’s misconduct, its seriousness, the status of the employee, his or her attitude to his or her own actions or behaviour, the nature of the work, the specific characteristics of the job and the status of the employer. This consideration must also address the question of whether the termination of employment is a reasonable consequence of the employee's reprehensible behaviour or a deterioration in working conditions. At the same time, it will be assessed whether the employer is in a position to resolve the situation in some other way, such as providing other work or changing working conditions. The amendment proposed in the Government proposal adds a separate wording to the second sentence of Section 2 of Chapter 7 of this Employment Contracts Act, which states that this overall assessment must take account of the number of employees employed by the employer. The committee notes that the proposed amendment does not alter the grounds for dismissal of employment under the current provision, i.e. the requirement for a material and serious reason, or what can be considered to be a factual and weighty ground for dismissal by the worker or by the person concerned. Thus, the grounds for dismissal do not change. The proposed addition is limited to an overall assessment of the factual and weighty criterion. Here, therefore, the starting point is that it would target small companies. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken the view that the number of people employed by the employer could be taken into account in the overall consideration already within the current wording of the provisions. The committee agrees with this view, but believes that this proposed change is intended to highlight the importance of the number. The Committee on Legal Security has given much thought. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also took a position and stated that when fundamental rights were restricted — that is to say, Article 18 of the Constitution notes that there must be a basis for the dismissal of a person from his/her work — and regulation must be predictable and must also meet the requirements of precision and precision. This is where the committee agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and says that this remains unclear. The explanatory memorandum states that this proposed regulation may create legal uncertainty at first instance, but the extent and extent of change in companies will ultimately depend only on future case law. In its own opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that leaving the importance of change to a significant extent on the basis of subsequent case law will reduce the predictability of the grounds for dismissal of an employee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not consider it appropriate that the regulation on dismissal should be left essentially to the considerations set out in the explanatory memorandum and only to the case law that might be clarified after years. The committee noted that this possible legal uncertainty relates only to the transition period and to this overall consideration. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered the views expressed in its opinion on the explanatory statement on the functioning of the small employer's work community, financial losses and lack of trust to be relevant in assessing the seriousness and gravity of the grounds for dismissal, but felt that it would have been necessary to clarify the provision by means of an explicit reference to the employer's conditions for bearing the consequences of the action to be brought against the worker. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, such regulation would also have been more compatible with the explanatory statement of the proposal, but the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities considered that adding the clarification proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could lead to a reduction in the threshold for dismissal in large companies, and that was not the purpose of this legislative amendment. With regard to the explanatory statement and the amendments, the committee made some minor clarifications on how this small number and the role of small businesses should be taken into account. The committee notes that this overall consideration, which is thus the focus of this change, draws attention to issues relevant to the assessment of the grounds for dismissal, and is therefore a question of those who can be considered to be properly linked to the conditions for continued employment. Therefore, in practice, the number of employees of an employer may become relevant when the grounds for dismissal are assessed only where the dismissal is based on the relative impact of the employee’s faulty procedure or change in the working condition due to the small size of the employer. Therefore, if the company is larger, it can be considered in relative terms that the effects of the same behaviour on the larger company are lower. In its own report, the committee stressed that the regulation of the person concerned should: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u234	Mr President! The heavy wheels of law - regulating are made to spin in a situation where a problem has been identified and is being resolved. In this particular law, the problems that we want to address are listed in the objectives of the proposal. There are two points that have been mentioned: increasing employment and encouraging small businesses to recruit for dismissal by improving legal certainty. However, the impact section of the same draft law states that this law is unlikely to increase employment and its legal certainty will deteriorate for years, although it will improve after perhaps four to five years. When we know how long they will affect the life cycle of the laws, it is very questionable whether this law will ever be able to pay back to the national economy the financial losses caused by the social debate in the legislative process and the resources invested in the legislation that have been put into this law. This law is particularly strange because effective means of solving these particular problems would be — for example, a system of legal advice for small businesses, which could have improved legal certainty here and now without waiting for many years of case law to become established. On this basis, I do not see it possible to interpret this law in any way other than as a pure law on the preservation of face and as an exceptionally expensive one. Mr President! Mr Myllykoski's written question on whether this draft law is also intended to change the criteria for determining compensation for workers made redundant on a personal basis in situations where there are no grounds for dismissal has recently been answered. In the committee hearing, I asked this question and received a reply from several experts that nothing will change in this respect. I was obviously wrong or our experts were, namely, in this reply to Myllykoski, it is stated that although the reform does not mean a specific change in the size of these allowances, it may have a spill-over effect on the level of compensation for unjustified terminations of employment. In practice, in situations where a person has been dismissed on a personal basis and where dismissal is found to be unjustified, this law makes his legal protection more dependent on the company and the financial situation of the company. Now that it is not a traffic fine, but rather a rather central right to compensation for unjustified dismissal, I consider this to be a rather problematic issue and I regret that this did not come up more strongly in the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u235	Mr President! This bill can be described as ‘mixed’ and ‘unclear’. The employment effects of the reduction in the level of protection against dismissal proposed in the draft law are questionable. The basic premise of the proposal is wrong in relation to the objectives set. This is evident from the influence values ordered by the government itself. According to expert advice, facilitating dismissal does not have a significant impact on the willingness of companies or on the ability to recruit new persons. The consequences of the law are also unclear. Based on the current law, the size of the company has already been relevant in court rulings when assessing the legality of dismissal as a whole. Small businesses would benefit more from legal advice in interpreting the rules and standards of working life. It would provide a much better basis for small companies to succeed in the failure of recruitment. The problem with the law is also that the reasons and articles of the law are not sufficiently synchronized. There is also a clear contradiction between the articles and the arguments. In the expert hearings, there was a strong criticism of the poor level of statutory records, which is reflected, for example, in the vagueness of concepts, which further increase the difficulty of interpreting the law. There is therefore a risk that the law will primarily employ lawyers. An unclear draft law brings uncertainty to the labour market for a long time when the application of the law is started through judicial decisions. It may take up to four to five years to clarify the situation with the decisions of the courts. This uncertainty is very problematic from the point of view of even small companies. There is also a lack of assessment of the impact of the law. Impact assessments have mainly been carried out in previous legislative versions, and gender impact assessments, for example, have almost not been carried out. It is also worrying that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been ignored. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the impact of the proposed amendment on the interpretation of the grounds for dismissal remains unclear in the text of the law. It is problematic if the existence of a ground of dismissal is confirmed only after the court has closed the case and ultimately depends on the future case law as to how wide and how large the changes will have an impact — that is to say, the Constitutional Committee. And these ideas of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were not taken into account in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities in the way that should have been taken into account. Despite the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that legislative proposals can be set out in the order in which ordinary legislation is adopted, the Committee concludes its arguments with criticism that the employment impact of reducing the protection of dismissal cannot be reliably assessed on the basis of existing research. In the light of the studies available, it is very uncertain that the draft law would have a significant impact on the promotion of employment. Therefore, the proposed regulation cannot be justified by constitutional law by linking it to the constitutional obligation to promote employment. These were therefore themes drawn from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say a few words about the qualifying period for unemployment benefit in connection with the draft law. We are in favour of the reduction in the qualifying period provided for by the law, but it is worth noting that the reduction is estimated to increase the total expenditure on public finances by EUR 11 million and for central government expenditure by EUR 6.8 million, as a result of the reduction in the amount of unemployment benefit after dismissal from 90 to 60 days. On the other hand, it has not been possible to assess the positive effects on the desired employment effects of the law at all. However, there are a number of problems with the level of unemployment benefits. A complex and partly discretionary sanction system increases income support customers, complicates anticipation and reduces trust in public authorities. Although the purpose of the management system is to guide people into employment, many people have the opposite effect. The whole of the principle of nationality and the conditions for access to unemployment benefit should be broken down as a whole, and we should look at where it comes from and on what grounds and how it is implemented. We have big differences in how laws and guidelines are interpreted in different parts of Finland. Somewhere you can study something, but somewhere else you can't. Some voluntary activities are interpreted as not being available to the labour market, while others are interpreted as being available to the labour market. Of course, this should not be the case. But the problem with this bill is, in particular, that there is now a complete separation of the qualifying periods between those who have been laid off and those who have been laid off themselves, and that does not make sense. And that is why we propose to shorten the qualifying period for dismissed and self-dismissed persons to 60 days, i.e. for everyone. Mr President! To sum up, in addition to the amendment of the section relating to the second legislative proposal, we will propose a total rejection of the first legislative proposal on the basis of the above criteria. There should be no legislation of this poor quality at all. — And the objection I have just raised is shared by the SDP, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the RKP.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u236	Mr President! This is one of the series of small but good reforms that this government is carrying out and which have a positive impact on employment and the functioning of the labour market. In the light of the study that we have, we can estimate that this can contribute to some improvement in employment. Of course, the fact that these effects are uncertain does not mean that they do not exist. As the researchers say, ‘absenceofcidence’ does not exist ‘residence ofabsence’, as I have tried the representative of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs explains. He should understand that with his research. Mr Kontula asked what was the problem we wanted to tackle. Well, I tell you one big problem here: it is exceptionally high unemployment in Finland. We have to do something about it. We cannot finance this welfare expenditure unless we make our labour markets work as well as other Nordic countries. And that is why we are making such reforms. Now my experience of this regime is that the political opposition, the left, has opposed every one of them. In other words, the rather rocky road seems to be politically this improvement in employment in Finland, but I do not know any other way if we want to raise the employment rate and Finnish welfare expenditures to finance. We also have a wide range of economic theoretical evidence on how protection against dismissal affects productivity and how it affects the position of weak labour market groups. If the protection against dismissal is reduced, mobility will increase between jobs, and then there will also be a slightly higher probability that people who are threatened with long-term unemployment will be able to get to work. I think it has been so overwhelmingly depressing that the left, which, in principle, speaks for equality and justice, did not want to give any value to this aspect. These are all uncertain, of course. These reforms are of such a nature that we cannot have very certain information about them, because no society and any national economy can carry out controlled tests on such matters. These are always rare changes, the assessment of which is uncertain, because the same legislation must apply to everyone. So in such a case we cannot even say that we have certain impact assessments, but the information we have tells us that this is likely to affect the good. And now that we have been piously told what would have been better for businesses, ask the companies themselves. I guess now even the Finnish Entrepreneurs — the organization as just one man and woman is in favour of this reform, it has been one of the most important things for them during this reign — there should be some information value. Mr President! There are also a few comments on the process of enacting this law. This was partly due to the desire to improve employment opportunities for small businesses and the fact that the established Finnish tripartite organisations were not at all willing to reduce and reduce the practices that discriminate against small and non-organised companies in our contract legislation. Well, then we tried to do something else and we chose such a small, moderate reform, which could nevertheless work in the right direction. Well, this became some kind of symbolic red garment for that part of the political field that would like to live in some kind of strange Cold War proletariat dictatorship or where the EK and SAK cabinets are allowed to decide on labour law and the government and parliament would not even have the right to push through reforms. There was such a campaign of foreign parliamentary hatred, in which no lie seemed to be forbidden, and so much I know from the work force that I would not be so surprised that something was known about this campaign in this house as well. But this seems bitter from the point of view of a liberal reformer such as myself, because when these organisations put pressure on such a proposal to be weaker and less clear than the original, then we will hear in committee and in this Chamber how it is too weak and unclear. You can rest assured, Labour parties, that it would have been clearer and stronger if this outside parliamentary pressure had not been involved. But there are also comical features here: The need for a strike campaign in the organisations was that this should be achieved through tripartite preparation. Well, that's where it came in, and a few times it was discussed. I have compared the original version and then the version after this triangular preparation. It hasn't changed a bit. So this was about some kind of symbolic protest by the old tripartite power that we must be involved. It reminds me of a 5-year-old child whose parents want her to wear rubber boots, and she says I'm going to say I'm going to put rubber boots on, and then she's going to put rubber boots on. I see this as some kind of slow death — and good. However, the fact that I believe this House should be very much aware of is that we have the highest unemployment in Central and Northern Europe and that we will never survive our public finances in the next decade and that this welfare system created by the labour movement will not be able to be financed unless we make a decisive reduction in our unemployment rate. And such reforms are the steps we can take in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u237	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen gave a very analytical seven-minute speech, and I am not going to repeat these points. But, just as Vartiainen said, it is actually a rather small reform, a small change which, in my opinion, calls for a change in the case law. In other words, this proposal proposes that the overall assessment of the reason for dismissal in the future should take into account as a new factor the number of employees employed by the employer as part of the overall assessment. The aim is therefore to ensure that the specific circumstances of small employers are adequately taken into account when assessing the grounds for dismissal based on a person. The aim of the proposal is to lower the employment threshold for small employers by facilitating dismissal. This amendment does not alter the grounds for dismissal under the current provision, as has already been said here, namely the requirement for a factual and weighty reason, nor what can be regarded as a factual and weighty ground for dismissal due to an employee or relating to his or her person. The proposed increase is limited to a list of factors affecting the overall assessment of the factual and weighty basis, in which the number of employees employed by the employer is taken into account as a new factor. In the current law, this text is worded as follows: ‘the circumstances of the employer and worker as a whole’. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said, this wording already allows this to be taken into account, but it is only that it does not seem to take place in our case-law. The proposed amendment therefore wishes to emphasise the importance of the number of employees in the overall assessment. Here, too, it has been said that ‘the proposal will bring uncertainty to the labour market for a long period of time, when the application of the law It's true, but it's necessary. In fact, the case law has evolved in the direction that some companies feel that the threshold for dismissal is too high. Earlier, when this matter was discussed, I gave an example without mentioning the name of the company, and in the meantime I visited the company, and they said that in vain I hide their names, I can also tell you in Parliament. This is SV-Element Oy's Sulkavala. They had a case of this kind, where a worker who worked a continuous morning shift was wanted to take a temporary shift every other week because of the factory's busy hours. All the works of the prefabricated factory were agreed on in the contract of employment. However, the worker refused to do so and remained on sick leave. After the leave, the employee resigned himself, i.e. he resigned himself, and was immediately employed elsewhere. One year after leaving, the employee sued his former employer, SV-Element Oy, with the help of the Construction Association, for damages. The District Court sentenced SV-Element to pay the employee a salary of 10 months, in a situation such as this, where the employee has still resigned himself. The Court of Appeal was appealed, the Court of Appeal refused the appeal, the Supreme Court dismissed the application for the appeal, and the decision of the District Court was thus upheld. This is quite inconceivable, however, that we have such a case-law in these matters of dismissal, in this case still so that the employment contract was not terminated on behalf of the employer or also terminated. Mr President! If this proposal can change the current case law even slightly better to take the circumstances of a small employer as a whole into account, then it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u238	Mr President! We know that more jobs are needed, and we know that small businesses are the ones where they may arise, and of course we must work to ensure that the threshold for companies to employ workers is as low as possible. But it seems that this law may not be the best answer, as has been pointed out here. However, this does not change the current situation much, it may even make it more confusing for small businesses, and the fear of employing is perhaps based on concerns that are not so much real today, and on the impression that employment is difficult or that it is difficult to work as an employer, and it would therefore be important for small businesses to receive more help, support and advice. If we look at this law, what kind of big soup and fuss this has become, I think perhaps a little too much common resources and confidence have been put into the game so that, in this situation, the relationship of trust between the labour market and the government has suffered an inconceivable blow, and probably in vain and in vain. In fact, it surprises me that the government has actually wanted to make this law quite an issue of prestige, since it is known, however, that according to the reports, the impact on employment is not likely to be very great. The Greens are quite pleased that the government took steps back and changed its original proposal together with the social partners, and it is good that an agreement was finally found and not a two-tier labour market was created in Finland. But, as I said, this proposal is still problematic and only through the interpretation of the law will it finally be seen what, for example, this number of employees mentioned in the text of the law actually means. We see that more support and incentive is needed for employment policy, and we Greens would like to reform the labour market by increasing training, facilitating the employment of the first and second workers and increasing the amount of pay subsidies. Wage support is a pretty good way of doing so if there is uncertainty about hiring an employee and uncertainty about how he is doing at the workplace, because it will become very clear during that time. The fact that the probationary period has now been increased to six months is, in fact, also a means of much relief in relation to this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u239	Mr President! In this law, the greatest disagreement between the government's line and the social democrats is probably the way in which employment is to be improved, the means in which it is to be chosen. If we are thinking of protection against dismissal, then the latest OECD study — which we are usually used to trusting in this house today — shows that our combination of personal and collective protection is below the average of both the EU and the OECD countries, and that personal protection is lower than average, and that the collective combination is lower. In fact, the government has chosen a path in which it wants to be clearly weaker from the protection of dismissal than our control countries on average, and in that sense we disagree as to whether we should choose such means or whether we should invest in knowledge and that our work is essentially more productive than it is at present and we are doing things smarter and more competent. Well, as far as the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, I think it was a clear proposal that this law should not actually be enacted, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated — and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, as a whole, therefore, agreed with this view — that the current law already allows for a small size of companies to be taken into account when considering the whole issue, and we know from the case-law that this is also the case-law. In fact, this law is more of a political manifesto than a need law, and because it is a political manifesto rather than a need law — although the issue that it seeks to resolve is necessary to resolve — there is a great risk that this will give rise to a message that will lead many small companies to an even worse situation: it is thought that even the grounds for dismissal have been made easier, even though this law does not interfere with them, and on those grounds there will be dismissals, which will then become those unfortunate backwards when the court finds that the overall consideration does not go beyond what has been thought on the grounds. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stated that, in fact, the purpose of this law is to provide for reasons and the article has not been addressed. Well, of course, I personally think it is good that these criteria have not been introduced into those paragraphs, which is what they are intended to do, and I support it, but there is no good legislation that we do not have the same criteria and articles, because it will become the uncertainty and legal uncertainty that will now go on for a few years before higher court levels then determine how to interpret this objective which has been set for this law. No impact on employment: There is no doubt that they are unclear. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr Vartiainen felt that this would make it possible for people with a difficult labour market position to have more equal access to work, as the majority of the committee also wrote in the report. I'm not so sure about that myself. Even if more jobs are opened up through increased redundancies, it is very likely that workers who find it more difficult to find employment will be made redundant. If you have been laid off for personal reasons, it will then be much harder to find employment. Everyone knows that. The risk of these people falling into long-term and difficult unemployment is increasing, and it may be that under different circumstances they would have been able to hold on to the profits of their employer even longer, but after this law it may be that the line is different. Well, then, if we look at the objectives we have had, for example, in terms of unemployment security, I certainly hope that the issue raised in the protest will be that we need an overall assessment of when we will be able to obtain the unemployment benefit, on what grounds and on what grounds and in what terms the qualifying periods or periods it has. A common understanding, for example, of the Action Project, has been that these time limits should be harmonised and that practice should be harmonised when social security is reformed. Although we have had some disagreement as to what kind of social security should ultimately be, the need for this harmonisation and the need for clarification have all been shared. Now it's time for one line to turn into two. We have had the same days of ownership in the past if a person resigns himself or becomes dismissed on personal grounds. Now these reasons differ. In other words, if you behave badly at the workplace and are dismissed for personal reasons, you will be less severe than if you have a bad employer who, for example, makes you sick. That is why we have proposed that these amounts should be combined.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u240	Mr President! For years I have been talking about evidence-based decision-making, which highlights the summaries of research evidence and wide-ranging expert consultations in the drafting and justification of legislation. From this point of view, this bill is very poorly prepared. This isn't based on facts. It's mostly on guesswork. The culture of experimentation is in itself a good and worthy thing, but it should not be applied to legislative work. Now, here's the tone. Let's see what happens. For the next few years, we will then have to wait for the courts to decide what this bill means in practice. Increasing uncertainty in the labour market is not in anyone's interest, and that is certainly not a good thing. I therefore agree with the views expressed here that the force of this issue is more a matter of prestige and ideology than a matter of evidence or fact, and I find this very sad.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u241	Mr President! Although Mr Vartiainen, as he did, left quite soon after his speech, I will still answer him the questions and arguments that he directly addressed me, in the hope that perhaps through one of the speakers of my vote Mr Vartiainen will reach this house. Mr Vartiainen is quite right that the lack of evidence is not in itself proof of the non-existence of a causal relationship. This does not mean, however, that whatever is going to happen and no evidence will make any difference and that all the different scenarios for the future will be equal to each other. Nor does it mean that carefully weighed and made assessments of the effects — even when the outcome is uncertain or the outcome is moving so close to zero that it is quite certain that it is not possible to know whether to go along with the plus or the minus — should be taken seriously and that no political decision could be taken on this basis. If politics could only be done on the basis of certain facts, we would not be doing politics at all, because politics always deals with unrealised events. However, Vartiainen has not been able to demonstrate the overall weight of the impact assessment, which reflects on a number of changes at the same time. All or at least a large number of legislative proposals have a number of simultaneous effects when we talk about open societies and a number of simultaneous factors. This should be precisely the political weighing, the work that we should be doing in this house. There are a number of points where we know for sure there is a connection, some kind of correlation and causality, to this bill. How strong, we do not know, but at least so strong that these issues need to be raised, and when considering whether, for example, a reform in the hope of employment is necessary and appropriate, these should be considered. For example, we know that the experience of justice with the system has deteriorated among low incomes. We know that the gap between those on good income and those on low incomes is widening. We also know that, even if more people are available in the labour market as job seekers, the situation of those who are hardest hit by employment will not improve at all, even if job vacancies are available. That is why, when Mr Vartiainen wondered why the left is not enthusiastic about how this law improves the position of the most vulnerable in the labour market, it is not enthusiastic because, in our view, it does not improve it. It is not the case that the employer takes a person who is less suitable for the job, a person who is less skilled at the task, if at the same time the price is better available for skilled workers. It is also known that nuclear labour in a position of strong bargaining is crucial in order to safeguard the general level of working conditions, which is why the protection of dismissal does not only protect the core labour that is within it, but also protects the working conditions in general terms. Working conditions are not determined in any free fall, nor are they defined in this house. The terms of employment are determined by the negotiations between the purchasers of the work and the sellers of the work, and it is essential to see how many chips each have in use. If the chips of the other party are weakened by this house, it will affect this negotiating position and thus the general working conditions. These are all basic facts behind which there is a great deal of research information and which should be taken into account in the overall weight when considering whether this particular bill is such that the value of its potential — possible, not proven — positive effects is so significant that it is worth implementing. Mr Vartiainen then wondered that the position of the Confederation of Entrepreneurs did not seem to weigh much on Kontula. We now have before us a bill in which the entrepreneur cannot know whether or not it will have any effect on his business, and if so, what will it do? How, then, can an entrepreneur form any sophisticated position on whether this is a good thing or a bad thing? At least not by reading the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u242	Mr President! At the time of the referral to this motion, I doubted what the real impact of these proposed articles would be, because the text must have an impact, and the explanatory statement does not make legislation. As a problem, I doubted this section's vagueness with regard to the impact of the size of the company and the variations in the grounds for dismissal — that is to say, is the matter changed in the desired way, will it change in general, will it even become less favourable for the large company? So who would like to go test these? Who wants a precedent for their own business? Do we want to go out and try this with legislation? In my opinion, the committees did not find any confirmation that there was a need for legislation or that its impact would be desirable. Uncertainty floats on this show. It may therefore be best to put this somewhat lame bill in a scrap heap and return to time with new ways of improving the conditions for employment in small businesses without always being out of the labour force in one way or another, or creating uncertainty and mistrust in the labour market. This is what I have often demanded of the government before, and I insist now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u243	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u244	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Management of Risks of Alien Species and the Hunting Act. The catching and killing of birds and mammals of foreign species would be subject to the provisions laid down in the hunting law and in the provisions adopted pursuant to it. The Hunting Act is finally proposed to be amended so that the law no longer applies to, among other things, raccoons, which are defined by European Union legislation as harmful alien species. The Hunting Act would no longer apply to mink, which is defined as a nationally significant invasive alien species. Mr President! In Parliament on 2 February 2016, I took a measure initiative to improve the fishing of non-Finnish foreign predators and on 27 June 2017 a written question on measures to reduce raccoons from nature. I also asked a written question on 14 March 2018 on mink, asking how the mink differs from the raccoon dog, because both are alien species in Finland, and does the government intend to remove the mink from the list of game animals in the future and compare it with an unsettled animal, such as a raccoon dog. Now these things are being made excellent decisions. So a raccoon and a mink would be likened to an unsettled animal, which means that it is not necessary to carry out a hunter’s degree or pay a game - care fee to catch and kill them. In addition, the owner or holder of the area has the right to catch or kill an unsettled animal in his territory. This right is granted even when the hunting right in the area has been transferred to another person under a rental agreement. In my opinion, the government has an excellent understanding of the harmfulness of raccoon dog and mink. The future decision for both will be a real conservation action this year, which will significantly improve the living conditions of waterbirds, for example, in bird waters and wetlands. It is good enough for me that minks and raccoon dogs will only be present in fur farms in the future, as it seems to be the intention of Finland. In my opinion, mink is a fur at its best, and at least in the countries towards the east of Finland this has been understood very well. Mr President! In the presentation, the game species provided for in the Hunting Act are presented for the addition of a gold jackal. Regulatory measures would be prepared to regulate the stock of the species as it may spread to Finland as an alien species, especially as a result of climate change. I think this is an excellent decision, even though it is still a long way to go to hunt a jackal. On 24 February 2016, I put a written question to the Minister on how to prevent the spread of a foreign beast, or jackal, not belonging to Finland to Finland — these things that had already been identified in Estonia. Minister Tiilikainen’s answer tells us, among other things, that the jackal is naturally spreading, like any species with potential for it. The probability of a jackal arriving in Finland is relatively high, although a clear barrier to spread is St.Petersburg. It would probably survive near the south and south-west coast. The severity and snowiness of winters are likely to affect stability and individuality. According to the Minister's reply, Finland is not in a position to prevent the possible natural spread of the species, but, on the contrary, Finland has a duty to ensure a favourable level of protection for the jackal. In my opinion, we no longer need a species of foreign origin in Finland to destroy our birdwaters and walk on skids like a raccoon dog. After spreading to Finland, the jackal is a protected species in the nature reserve and would be covered by conservation regulations. This change in hunting law, which is the subject of today's debate, can make the jackal into a game, so that the stock can be regulated by hunting, and that is exactly what we are doing now. It is also the right decision for jackals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u245	Mr President! It is also possible to regulate and manage biodiversity through the Hunting Act, and it is precisely our diversity that has been reduced by these alien species, which are also included and defined in this government proposal to be removed from the lists of invasive alien species. And knowing how the situation in Finland's natural environment is also at present that it is deteriorating at a relatively rapid pace, it is excellent that these measures are then considered from many points of view and then acted on in the legislation. Goods and people are moving at a very fast pace in this world state, and that is how we get new plants, animals, species of life here in our dimensions, and they do not necessarily belong here in Finland's nature. The government proposal is good. These changes make it possible to regulate the position of raccoons, muskrats, marshmallows, raccoons and mink and gold jackals. Then the position regulation goes much further.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u246	Mr President! Combating the spread of alien species is a very important issue. Foreign species are a threat to many of our wild species, their ecosystems, their future, their entire habitat. However, it has now been the case that the fight against alien species has been limited by a number of factors, such as the listing of game species or whether the species in question can be destroyed or combated without restrictions on hunting legislation. The proposed amendment proposes adding raccoons, raccoons and muskrats to the list of harmful species. In addition, for mink, the application of the hunting law is to be discontinued. These changes are expected to facilitate the catch, control and eradication of alien species, which is a very welcome change in the protection of Finnish wildlife and the prevention of alien species.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u247	Mr President! Stranger species are a big problem, and it will only become an ever greater problem as climate change progresses and the conditions here turn into new species. And unfortunately, often those species that thrive are such genericists, who then take up space from the original species and especially from species that specialize in certain conditions. Such successful alien species threaten and often destroy the original species significantly, and one of the reasons for the threat is the alien species. This amendment of the law would now change only the hunting law, so we are talking about birds and mammals, but it is good to remember that we also have a huge number of other kinds of alien species. We have a lot of plants. I'm sure everyone knows the giant pipe, the giant balsam, which has spread so fast and are a real problem in many places. We have a variety of insects, even as a Spanish chip, a vermin familiar to gardens. And indeed, in all groups of species there are these alien species that come and change our original nature. It is therefore appropriate to ensure that we also ensure that sufficient resources are available to combat alien species. For example, giant tubes and giant balsams are often combated by voluntary work and voluntary night. And we also have a rather weak resource in how we are able to monitor the spread of alien species, and it would be very important to ensure that we are able to intervene at a sufficiently early stage, because we know that if these aggressively spread species are given enough space, then it will be more difficult to eradicate them later. That is why Luke, for example, should ensure that the resources are such that when alien species arrive, whether they are plants or different insects, many of which also contain pests, can be monitored. The sooner they can be detected and the sooner they can be eradicated, the better the results will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u248	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on the harmful nature of alien species in relation to wild animals and plant species and others. Too bad, we ourselves are largely responsible for it for some of the species mentioned in this bill, such as muslim, mink and raccoon dogs, which have been planted in Finland's natural environment and have escaped from fur farms to cause harm to wildlife. After this amendment, the owner or holder of the area or building shall have the right to catch or kill raccoons and muskrats in the area without having completed a hunter’s examination. This only raises the question that there must be some assurance that the hunting and killing of animals will, however, take place in an appropriate and as painless and professional manner as possible. I am not quite sure how to ensure it if you do not require a hunter’s degree. And another point worth noting, which I am sure will have to be clarified in committee: in 2013, a change in the hunting decree entered into force, according to which immediately deadly irons can be used on land to catch ferrets, flies, mink, weasels, squirrels and other species. Now, if the raccoon is moved to an unsettled species, will we then have these large traps near the settlement, and what is the potential danger to pets or even small children? These are the individual comments I have noticed, but the purpose of the bill as a whole is quite correct and good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u249	Mr President! This is an excellent bill in that sense, too, that in the past, if you have had several summer cottages on the lakeside, you have not been able to catch these alien species, mink and tuppy in the middle of the summer cottages, but this also enables you to contact someone who is not qualified to stop the cottage. In that sense, too, this is an excellent bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u250	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u251	Mr President! Clean nature and living environment is a wealth and value that we all certainly want to preserve. Wells always have an impact on nature, but the effects must be limited. The Mining Act is based on the fact that mining is socially, economically and ecologically sustainable. Local acceptability is central to mining. This will be achieved when the problems caused by mines to the environment remain reasonable, i.e. within the limits defined by the permit conditions. The present proposal is based on Parliament's unanimous statement EV 31/2017 in response to the Government's proposal 10/2017. The amendment was included in the technical amendments to the Mining Act but was omitted at the request of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. However, Parliament's response required that the change be brought in as a separate government proposal at a later stage, as this amendment was also considered necessary. According to the repealed Mining Act, the first person to submit an application in accordance with the Mining Act, no matter how incomplete, obtained the privilege in the area of the application. As a result, applications were often very incomplete and were gradually supplemented when the privilege had already been secured. When the Mining Act was reformed, they wanted out of this procedure. Thus, in the current Mining Act, a full application is required to obtain the privilege. The application must therefore contain all the necessary annexes in order to give the applicant the right of priority to apply for a permit in that area. In practice, this means that if the application requires a so-called Natura study or an environmental impact assessment, the preparation of these very demanding and time-consuming annexes must be started in good time. This means, on the other hand, that taking account of the latest research results and findings in these studies is a challenge. We therefore propose that these annexes be removed from the requirements of the priority application, i.e. that these parts of the application may be submitted as a supplement without prejudice to the priority. However, the application should be notified as these annexes are submitted and the examination and consultation of the application could not be initiated until these annexes have been submitted. In this way, the parties concerned would continue to have exactly the same material at their disposal during the hearing of the application. This amendment would allow these annexes to be prepared in the light of up-to-date information, thus improving the quality of the reports. The amendment would not affect the application requirements and the authorisation process would not change. Therefore, the information of the parties concerned would not be changed, but would still have all the material at their disposal at the hearing. In substance, this amendment has already been presented in the Government's proposal 10/2017, but at the same time, when a comprehensive Yva legislative package was being discussed in Parliament, this amendment was omitted in committee at the request of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and subsequently introduced as a separate proposal. Parliament’s response to the Government’s proposal therefore contained a statement requiring the introduction of this specific change to the Parliament later on, and now the Government is doing so in accordance with the unanimous will of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u252	Mr President! After all, the overall reform of the Mining Act and the Mining Act, which entered into force in 2011, aimed at reforming the mining legislation in such a way as to safeguard the conditions for mining operations in a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable manner while safeguarding public and private interests by taking into account the fundamental rights system. At the time, the protection of the public interest and the ex ante control of the authorisation exercise were considered to be essential. The proposed amendment would now allow the applicant to finalise the Natura 2000 assessment and the environmental impact assessment report even after the expiry or withdrawal of the exploration permit, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, and would allow the applicant to complete the planned exploration activities before the Natura 2000 assessment and the submission of the Yva report to the mining authority. That is what the explanatory statement of this government's proposal states, and this is very contradictory with regard to the amendments to the articles of this bill. A more flexible timetable for carrying out the Natura 2000 evaluation and the Yva report would make it possible, according to the draft law, to implement them in a more high-quality manner and to better address the co-ordination aspects of these objectives of conservation and other interests. As regards the impact of the bill, the draft law states: ‘The proposed legislative amendments would not have an impact on the examination of the authority’s authorisation. The aim is to streamline the administrative procedure and to reduce the administrative burden on the experts and the authorities responsible for the authorisation process. The proposed changes would also reduce the administrative burden on operators.’ Mr President! However, the detailed arguments in Article 34 leave no doubt as to how this provision would improve the authorisation process or speed up the authorisation issue. For example, where activities under the Mining Act would target the Natura 2000 site or its immediate vicinity or other nature reserves, it would mean, in any case, that authorisation under the Mining Act would be subject to the mandatory nature protection legislation. With regard to the financial impact, the draft law states that, in the case of the licensing authority, streamlining can speed up processes and thus improve the efficiency of the authorities and improve the service without additional resources. However, there is no justification for this in the draft law or in any of the opinions. Mr President! Although I understand in some respects the need to reduce the so-called reserve or priority phase, the Government proposal justifies this in practice by providing positive environmental effects, as if it were in the interest of the environment and the licensing process to carry out further studies, because later findings and studies could be taken into account. I don't understand this. Indeed, even today, Natura evaluation and environmental impact assessment should be supplemented when applying for a permit if the assessment has been incomplete, proved incomplete or obsolete by the time of the permit examination. When you look at the reasoning of the current Mining Act for 2009, it is precisely the reason why it is good to demand proper clarifications at a senior stage. They stress the importance of high-quality applications, so that those who are poor and incomplete would not gain any unjustified advantage, just as Minister Lintilaki explained the law in force and its background. This is also in the interests of responsible miners, ore seekers and gold washers. After all, the argument in Article 32 of the current Mining Act is that it clarifies the situation and prevents a right of priority from being acquired on the basis of incomplete applications. Mr President! It is difficult to find a legitimate reason why we now want to turn this around. It is clear that a mere reservation or privilege actually affects the status of a region, as has recently been seen in Heinävesi, although it does not yet justify measures. If the area is reserved for exploration of ore, it will inevitably affect, among other things, the value of the properties. Personally, I do not think it would be justified to reduce the number of priorities, because it would in practice improve the possibility for companies seeking a mining permit or a mineral exploration permit to obtain a priority for themselves in the region, which is precisely the opposite of what is provided for in the current law and its explanatory statement. Mr President! This cannot be overstepped by any trick or by emphasising that this is in some way a better solution for the environment as a result of better applications. There are no such arguments in this proposal. Applications can and must always be improved during the permit phase. If new information on the planned project, project area or its environmental impact emerges along the way, this should be done even now. In principle, Mr President, there is a fundamental problem with this draft law. The government's proposal is also rather poor in terms of transparency in preparation. After all, no statement has been requested from any of the parties on this proposal, and it has been argued that in 2017, when Parliament did not really change these two articles from a broader proposal amending the articles of the Mining Act, it was possible for the various parties to comment on these articles. Well, let's take a look at those statements from a year and a half ago that were asked quite briefly. Only the Regional State Administrative Agency of Northern Finland, Finnish Entrepreneurs, Mining industry, the Ely Centre of Lapland, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Centre for Safety Technology and the Ministry of the Environment were heard at the time, and the Ministry of the Environment has just left them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u253	Mr President! First of all, the history of the government proposal before us. It is based on the Government's proposal to amend the Mining Act 10/2017 to the Parliament, including amendments to section 32 on the ranking of the law and Article 34 on the application for authorisation. According to Article 34(3)(2) of the Mining Act in force, the Natura 2000 assessment, the Yva report and the reasoned conclusion of the contact authority in accordance with Article 65 of the Nature Conservation Act are part of a full application for priority to the application area vis-à-vis other operators. At that time in 2017, these documents were submitted for removal from the requirement of a full application for priority. The possibility of submitting documents as a supplement would allow the inclusion of late-stage research results and improve the quality of studies. Documents should continue to be submitted before the application is announced, so the total material would continue to be available to the respondents and commentators. The amendment proposed in the Government proposal 10/2017 was drafted on the basis of the current Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure for 1994. The legislation amending the environmental impact assessment procedure was before Parliament at the time and it was expected that the provisions of the Mining Act before the Economic Committee or the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure referred to in the Mining Act will change in the abovementioned legislation on the environmental impact assessment procedure. For the sake of consistency of legislation, the Economic Committee was then asked to reject Articles 32 and 34 of the Law on the amendment of the Mining Act. This was the case at the time. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously pointed out that the amendment of Articles 32 and 34 of the Government's proposal to amend the Mining Act was of sufficient importance for Parliament to require the Government to proceed rapidly with the preparation of a proposal including the amendment of the Mining Act proposed for technical reasons to be rejected. As amended on 24 May 2017, the Parliament approved the Government’s proposal to amend the Mining Act and made the following statement: ‘The Board of State requires that,in accordance with Article 34(3)(2) of the Mining Act in force,any amendments to the mining legislation be prepared by the Council of State in order to transfer the applications for authorisation under Article 32(2) of the Law on Mines,in order to ensure that the right to a search permit for primary orequipment,in the In other words, an application for authorisation without a Yva survey and a Natura study would only give priority to other mining operators. Therefore, the non-explanatory application does not allow any activity which is subject to authorisation at the present time. The Government’s proposal states: ‘The purpose of the change is to take account of the conservation andcoordination aspects of the This amendment would create better conditions for the preparation of these annexes and the fulfilment of the underlying objectives. The amendment would have no effect on the authorisation procedure or permit examination under the Mining Act. Information on the application and consultation of interested parties would continue to be carried out in accordance with the applicable Mining Act.’ That is the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, and I believe that this is a very important part of it. Mr President! In fact, summed up in plain English, this sums up four things: This government proposal before us has a practical impact only on the ranking of mining companies, this should be the case. This proposal should have no impact on the licensing practices of exploration or mining and should not have an impact on citizens' influence and should not have the effect of taking less account of environmental issues in the future. When this government proposal was discussed in 2017, I was chairman of the Economic Committee, and it was clear in the discussions that this was a necessary change but that this should not make any kind of weakening of citizens' opportunities to influence or take environmental considerations into account. This message is also strong when this government proposal is discussed in Parliament. The parliamentary procedure must ensure that there is no loophole in this law that undermines citizens' influence or undermines environmental considerations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u254	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää has already made a very thorough and commendable review of the problem with this proposal, so I thought that I myself would perhaps be speaking a little more generally. The mines have been talking a lot about Finns lately, and it is no wonder that mining companies are very interested in Finland's mineral resources. Our mining law is quite lax in the sense that it is easy to make takeovers and to explore areas and compensations, for example, to the state, are very limited. And often we are also dealing with multinational mining companies whose tax revenues here are low. That is also why Finns have been concerned that companies are coming here that are digging up our common ore reserves, and the economic benefits that have been thought of are being reduced. And then there have been these cases where environmental damage remains to be borne by taxpayers, and that is why the pressure to change the mining law is high at the moment. But this change, which is now being brought to us, I do not see the need in this sense for what Mr Halmemenpää has just told me, that now that the mining industry has a reputation problem, which is true, and that there is of course a reason for it in Wintervaara and other activities that have not been carried out responsibly, this change in the law will weaken the situation of the mining companies that are responsible, because if this reservation can be made without prior analysis, then there can be a situation in which mining companies which may not have the intention of opening up the well but whose business idea is based solely on the fact that they are taking over the territories and then selling them to others will have the advantage of doing this by quickly being able to book different areas and they will not do proper studies, because they may not necessarily have the resources to do so. And this is the kind of business I wouldn't want to see born in Finland. And that is why, in the past, when this Mining Act was enacted in 2009, the argument was indeed raised that the importance of quality applications was emphasised, so that the poor would not get undue benefits. And now, with this amendment of the law — considering that we do not need to make these studies at the first stage, they can be submitted later — this will be reversed, and in that sense I do not think that this is necessary at all. And, as has been pointed out here, it is not the case, as stated in this explanatory statement, that this will provide more up-to-date explanations, because even now it is required that, prior to the decision on authorisation, it is necessary to ensure that there is up-to-date information,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u255	Mr President! Nature is often unique and should be protected with special care. We must cultivate and preserve. That is the task we have been given. This performance, when you read, comes to the fore as a particularly important task. As far as nature conservation is concerned, we must be more careful than free-minded. Even with economic benefits, we should not go down a road that could permanently damage some of our natural values. Often, the traces that mining companies leave in the wild are significant. They will remain for many generations in memory of what has been done in that area. This bill has this idea of streamlining, and that is why, at this point, I have a certain degree of caution and suspicion about this proposal, although otherwise I have enjoyed a number of government streamlining policies and standards. I am not an expert on nature, so I am not going to philosophize on this issue, but I do think it is important that we should be more proactive in protecting nature than in seeking its economic benefits. Maybe this was a valuable speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u256	Mr President! Mining always leaves its mark on the environment. That is quite clear, and that is why it is extremely important that mining in the region is locally approved and that the environmental footprints are as small as possible and their effects are limited. In Finland, they are limited by a mining permit, environmental permit and also a formula approved by the municipality. Mining brings economic well-being to the regions and to the wider extent and also solves our challenges, for example, electric cars do not travel there unless there is mining activity, and many other materials come from mining. This law and the government's proposal, as Mr Turunen well said, really only brings privilege to other actors. This does not affect the activity subject to authorisation and does not affect in any way the licensing practices, i.e. these processes. Of course I understand the concern, but these licensing processes are not going to change anything. If we look at this change, it actually allows for better quality and coverage. In other words, in the exploration of ore, the more precise location where mining takes place will be specified, and it will then be possible to carry out research into what nature values there are and what nature values there should be protected. I fully agree that it is precisely these environmental permit procedures that must not be undermined at any time in the parliamentary process, and this must be dealt with very carefully here in Parliament. It is quite clear that the legislation on mining needs to be developed in the near future, that is to say, the mining law needs to be reviewed, but then environmental protection legislation should also be reviewed — and also the economic aspect, i.e. I would be prepared to examine the impact of the mining tax and whether it could be introduced in Finland. For example, the location could become such a reasonable part of the output, so that Finnish society could benefit more from its soil mineral resources. Norway has done well in this regard with regard to its own oil resources, and we in Finland should also keep these advantages here in our own country, which are available from our great country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u257	Mr President! I understand very well that when we talk about legislation on mines, it also inspires feelings and, on the other hand, I think it is a good thing. In this respect, I think the Minister very well — and also Mr Turunen in his speech — explained and went over what this government proposal is all about. It is only a matter of giving priority to exploration companies or mining companies, which means that you can submit an application earlier to ensure the privilege of doing so before the full yva has been implemented. However, there is absolutely no relief from the fact that this environmental impact assessment should not be carried out completely before any authorisation is given, nor is there any incentive to act, as Mr Mikkonen may have been a little misleading in that regard, for those actors who do not act ethically or in a sustainable way. That is certainly not the case here. It seems that we have quite a lot of confusion in the debate — both in public debate and in parliamentary debate — ore exploration, which is a scientific research activity, and then mining itself. When talking about the mining industry, it is good to remember that only about one out of a thousand ore exploration projects eventually leads to the mine. After all, we have a long history of decades in the fact that we have a Geological Survey of our soil, and that is very important. It is also good to remember that all the private ore exploration companies that come to Finland often use tens or hundreds of millions to search for ore, which remain almost 100% here for the benefit of Finland, because it is a work input here in Finland that is being used to search for it, and at the end of each year these companies will have to publish the results of the study, which will make them available to all. That's why we have this kind of system where an application can get the privilege of using it if you practice ore exploration. Otherwise, no one would do this ore hunting, and we would not be able to bear the responsibility that Finland too should bear in the fight against climate change, so that we, for our part, can enable the mines to operate in an environmentally, socially and economically sustainable way, so that it can also be carried out here, because our soil contains minerals specifically needed for battery technology. While the Greens were still in favour of this a year ago, I would now like to ask whether you have changed your mind now that you are opposed to this. This was a unanimous statement from Parliament on the basis of which the government has acted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u258	Then the Minister. - Please, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u259	Madam President! Since obviously the 30-minute processing time for the matter has already been completed, it is only a matter of short notice. I would also remind you that this change is based on Parliament's condition that the government bring these articles as soon as possible, and it was completely unanimous. What bothers me a little bit is what caused the greens to turn their coats on this matter in a year and a half. Your representative was unanimous in the Committee on Economic Affairs and your whole parliamentary group was behind this in this Chamber. Now you're not behind this anymore. So much for the Mining Act, which was voted in this Chamber in 2011, that I am prepared to have a debate with Mr Tiilikainen on whether to evaluate the functioning of the Mining Act and whether there are development needs in conjunction with various stakeholders. All we have is the problem that we have no experience of this miner, who then came in 2011. We do not have the first mining permit granted on the basis of this new law, but all the mines that exist are under the older law. So this is a bit of a problem for its overall assessment. The fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has stated that taking into account the CETA agreement...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u262	Unfortunately, at this stage, the debate and the matter will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u263	We will now resume the debate on item 17, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. And there's Mr. Halmemenpää, the first one who's been able to wait here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u264	Madam President! In the speech I made in the previous debate, I think I missed the point where I said that in April 2017, when Parliament last discussed the amendment to the Mining Act, on which I felt the Economic Committee heard a rather limited number of experts, and I listed them, the Ministry of the Environment, for example, left the content of Articles 32 and 34 currently under discussion entirely undeclared, since at that time, in April 2017, the Yva Act and the Mining Act had been proposed to be amended in a way that was contradictory to each other. That is why, among other things, the Ministry of the Environment has not said anything so far about these two changes to the articles currently under discussion — and not by any representative of environmental experts. But, Mr President, there was also the amazement in that debate when, in April 2017, even this unanimous statement from Parliament was approved by the Greens at a later stage of the debate on the outcome of these two articles. Since then, in May of this year, for example, it has been approved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u269	Mr President! Unfortunately, when the minister was still there, we did not get the answers to the questions raised here, for example, when the explanatory memorandum states that the proposed amendment would allow the applicant to carry out the last Natura 2000 assessment and the Yva report, even after the expiry or withdrawal of the exploration permit, and would allow the applicant to complete the planned exploration activities before the submission of the Natura 2000 assessment and the Yva report to the mining authority. How do I read this, that means that without these surveys, however, we can complete the planned ore search. And we know that those ore exploration activities involve different drilling and drilling operations and others, which in themselves may have an impact if, for example, they are carried out in the Natura area. We certainly did not find out what this is seeking. On the basis of the argument that, when these impact assessments can be submitted at a later stage, it would improve the quality of these applications: In that sense, I do not see that this is the case, because, indeed, even now, the law requires that impact assessments be up-to-date and must be completed if they are not — if some things have emerged during this process that have not occurred in the first phase when Natura and Yva have been carried out. In that sense, yes, as I said earlier, this unfortunately creates the possibility that, now that the application can be without the necessary clarifications and assessments, the types of operators who do not necessarily intend to act once and for all in the region will quickly want to reserve different areas, to carry out search activities, and the types of companies that might be more responsible, who have the resources and the will to carry out proper investigations and assessments first, will be second in the race. In the sense that we know that interest in mining in Finnish soil is growing, we should think about and see to it that the operators who come here are responsible. In his speech, Minister Lintilä said that he and Minister Tiilikainen were prepared to evaluate the current legislation, to make changes to it. I very much hope that this will be done, as Parliament has unanimously called for, and, for example, tax-related changes could very well be made. It does not require an assessment of how this current law has worked, when he pointed out that we do not know how this law works with regard to licensing practices, because under the new law there has not yet been any authorisation granted. For example, fiscal matters are something that could and should be added, because we know that in many other countries in the world,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u270	Mr President! With regard to this proposed amendment to the Mining Act, I have been listening in the sense that there has been a variety of information and I have wanted to hear what this is really about, what is being changed. Now this is the background to this fact that Parliament made a commitment, a statement in the context of the adoption of the Canadian Free Trade Agreement, that this mining law should be reviewed in the near future. After all, the whole free trade agreement was opposed by the Finns on the basis that we felt that the mining law should have been revised in advance. It cannot be that foreign mine invaders are able to rob us of national property and pollute our nature. We're not a colony. We cannot be naive in this regard with regard to the Canadians, nor can we be naive in relation to the Chinese, who already own about half of this Africa. Well, now Parliament has obliged this amendment to the Mining Act to find out, and the amendment to the Mining Act has now been brought to Parliament. Is it the case that this actually loosens up, softens our existing mining law and gives more rights and powers to these foreign companies? There is no way that this is going to happen if the law is loosened instead of tightened up. Yes, my own understanding of the will of the Parliament which was then expressed is that it is precisely the law that should be tightened up. In my opinion, it is a matter of making a mockery of Parliament's will if a piece of mining law is introduced into this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u271	Mr President! It is not a question of any relaxation of the mining law here, but of the stage at which operators can submit an application and receive the privilege. It is a matter of the order of the players in order to gain the privilege. Unfortunately, when I listened to Mr Mikkonen's speech, I had to say that I was a little surprised at how perhaps with incomplete information you would comment on this process. Now that you are referring to the fact that these post-application ore search cases can be completed, this is the question, if you will look at the process a little, of applying for ore search permits and obtaining them. If there's anything you need to do with it, it's done. Then it may have been years of exploration for ore, and then at some point it comes to applying for a mining permit, and that requires the yva process. These may go some way, then, that it may be completed during the time when the permit has already been lodged. The second question that was raised here is the CETA agreement, and I would like to hear what the CETA agreement actually has to do with these two amendments to the articles that are being tabled. None in any way, none in any way at all. I understand that there may certainly be a need to review the Mining Act, but when we talk here about the overall reform of the Mining Act, as is required, the Mining Act should be reformed, then at the same time we have to ask ourselves how many existing mines have been established or applied to the current Mining Act when the current Mining Act is in force. The answer is zero. None of the mines have been established in Finland since the current Mining Act entered into force, although it has entered into force in 2011. And this is sort of about the nature of the industry: These projects will last for a very long time. We could be looking for that ore for decades. It may have been found, but that it will eventually be processed into a mine, it is really about one out of a thousand ore exploration projects, and it may have been behind tens of years and even hundreds of millions of ore exploration projects where all the money has been left in Finland because that work has been done here. When it comes to mines, we have had problems with these environmental issues, and we do not want any of the mines that spoil our nature and water, but it is worth de facto separating this exploration and mining from each other, because one is about scientific research that does not leave any lasting signs of nature, and the other is about an entirely different industrial activity which, of course, leaves permanent traces of the region, and we hope that there will be no significant disadvantages or disadvantages to the wider region. You might want to take a look at this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u272	Mr President! I agree with Mr Halmemenpää that Finland is very generous because of our mineral resources. For example, I believe that the municipality in which mining is carried out should receive better income from this activity. But a few words about concerns about mining or, in fact, about exploration. In fact, when I come from Kuusamo, where there is a great deal of ore hunting and plenty of reservations, the landowners are concerned that, despite their opposition, ore can be found in their lands. I understand its social significance, but then it conflicts with the rights of the landowner. And just as Mr Salmon said there, no mining permit has been obtained under the new mining law, so now there are many things that are not tested. We are now struggling with how the municipal land use guidelines are in relation to mining, when it seems that the municipal land use guidelines remain in second place here. In the meantime, we are waiting for permission to appeal, whether we can get it, and then we really will be testing how the mining activities of the municipality can now be aligned in terms of other land use.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u273	Madam President! Indeed, this is not meant to loosen the application process for starting the mining business itself, more this is like a privilege between the companies – here must have come several times it. When this application is submitted, the time must be taken to determine when the Yva and other studies will then be submitted before we start taking this process forward. It must have all the documents on it before it goes into the licensing legislation itself. So this is a misconception that this would undermine environmental protection. Then the other one is this ore hunt. Here, too, we hope and have the impression that when you go to sensitive areas, you go to wintertime with roller chain things, that there will be no traces of nature — that has been the starting point. During the last period — and I was in the Committee on Economic Affairs back then — we had an Australian, I do not remember the name of a woman, he said that their mining process has been going on for over a decade and they were not even allowed to do so at that time. In other words, these processes are long-term, and indeed this helps in the order of the companies, when it gives the company priority to the area, and then it can become more effective in making plans and ideas and things. In other words, as has happened in many speeches: if Yva is made in a large area at the moment, we look for ore in a large area and we do not know exactly where to start extractive activities, it can now be targeted at it and a more accurate and high-quality yva survey is carried out at the very place where mining starts. In other words, I think that there has been a very wrong distribution of the issue that this is going to weaken the environmental crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u274	Madam President! Representative Salmon asked how this CETA now relates to these two articles. I'll tell you what it has to do with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u281	Mr President! Indeed, mines speak a lot of Finnish people at the moment, when there are different projects across Finland and companies are interested and want to reserve areas. For that reason too it would be a great wisdom for us not just to change the legislation so that we give these mining companies such privileges, that the environmental impact will not be properly investigated until it is booked and the work begins. We know that residents across Finland are very concerned about these effects. In the Heinävesi region, for example, there are plans for three different open mines near clean waters there, and it is also close to Natura areas, and local residents are very concerned about what the effects of the mines will be. That is why it would also be in the interests of mining companies that, when they want to come to the area to do a search, they would be very open about the possible effects and the local authorities would be able to participate in the debate. As Mrs Parviainen has said here, the situation is that, unfortunately, the voice of the municipalities, not to mention the voice of the landowner, has little weight. Indeed, now that there is a great will for the Finns to tighten up our mining law, and that was also the will of the Parliament in connection with this CETA agreement and the Committee on Foreign Affairs this week with a new consensus, of course I find it rather unusual that this type of amendment of the mining law should be brought here as a matter of urgency, when the pressure would be to make those changes specifically so that the authorisation process would be such that citizens, local residents would have better influence and, on the other hand, that the value of ores would remain more important here in Finland and also at the local level. It is also a big concern that how to benefit at local level if there is a mine there. Of course, there will be some jobs for at least a period of time, although at the same time something else, such as tourism, may suffer. Of course, mining companies should also have the strong responsibility for how they do its end-of-care. After all, we have unfortunate examples of companies going bankrupt and then this final treatment has been left to the state. This type of change to the Mining Act would be required. In fact, the fact that no new permits have been issued under this current mining law allows us to tighten up that law even further before the next authorisation processes come into force, because, as has been well mentioned here,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u282	Mr President! When I listen to this debate, it does make me very sad that we are taking a rather lax position on this issue. I understand that mines can be resisted just because there is a word ‘mining’,and at the same time maybe you can look at a handshake that has been used,what have been scrapped from the mines,but I would be supported,however,by actually persevering in the process and persevering in the law-sharingfacts. We have heard the previous speech, in which Mr Halmemenpää put the CETA Agreement into these two paragraphs by saying that if there comes a Canadian company that makes reservations here, but when these two articles, which are being amended, do not apply in any way to the reservations, but only to the exploration permit and the mining permit, they do not apply to any reservations. [HannaHalme Head Hue] So the question you have repeatedly referred to in the fact that you can complete the mal-mining means situations — when our mining law allows you to apply for a permit to search for ore in episodes 4 years, 3 years, 3 years, 3 years and 2 years — that if 15 years have been searched for ore and you find someone present and have spent 200 million dollars on it, then because you can no longer apply for an extension when 15 years is the maximum, after you can't leave a mining permit, in order to gain the privilege of what you spent 200 million, you should prefer to carry out Yva surveys and you lose that permit. So that's fair play here? No, no, no. The CETA agreement is based on the need to treat all companies fairly and in the same way here, and there is no need to amend the legislation in Finland on its behalf, because our legislation assumes that everything is put on the same line in the licensing policy. In my opinion, there is some misinformation about this CETA agreement, and both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have now assessed and stated that there is no need to amend our mining legislation on the basis of CETA.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u283	Madam President! Indeed, there are quite a lot of claims and assumptions in the air. Indeed, this process is indeed changing on the basis of this priority arrangement, but once a mining permit is obtained, all that other activity will be as strict as it was before. When you think about bankruptcy and aftercare and all that, these things don’t change anything in that process. [HannaHalmeen Head/KristaMikkosen intermediate call] After all, the municipality and the community have a powerful means of influence. It's a zoning, whether mining is planned in that area, or what's being done there. In other words, it already hears people in the region many times before we start mining, and especially in the planning process — if you are involved in the municipal administration, you know how long-term it is and what kind of hearings it has to do with the operation — people should be consulted. It is very important that people in the region be consulted at that point. This is gonna speed it up. This is not a bypass, but it gives it its readiness and certainty for the attempt to take further action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u284	Mr President! I am a little surprised at the speeches that there is no need to amend the Mining Act on the basis of the CETA agreement or that there would be some confusion on the part of the Government or the Ministry, because that is what Parliament, in its unanimous stance, proposed and demanded that it be re-examined in the context of this CETA agreement. I myself well remember that text in that Parliament's work. How can this be unclear? This aspect, raised by Mr Halmemenpää, in relation to the impact of CETA on this issue, must be taken into closer consideration, at least in my opinion. Can it really be that, if the law so permits, obtaining this privilege with inadequate environmental documents would result in the creation of investment protection in the direction of a foreign mining company under any circumstances? Could it produce such a well - founded expectation that they will be able to hold its claim? Are there international precedents for this? Have countries been condemned to compensation for companies? If there is any such thing anywhere, then this risk is very serious for us. Finland is a small player under pressure from these international companies. This is a problem in any case in these international free trade agreements. These doubts must be fully resolved before I can under any circumstances accept this law. I would also like to ask what good it can be to have such a law passed to anyone, what is the added value of this for Finland and for Finns, because we do not want to have that added value for anyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u285	Mr President! Mr Salmon took the floor, where he suspected that only opinions and incomplete information were being presented. But, ladies and gentlemen, we here have quoted this government bill and its detailed arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u294	Mr President! Indeed, today we have been talking about this proposal, which is now about how to change the order of priority, how a mining company can gain the privilege of a exploration permit, a mining permit or a gold leaching permit, what kind of documents are required at that stage, and then there has also been a general reference to the mining law, the need to change what we believe should be done to the mining law, and also to the concern that Parliament has unanimously expressed in relation to the CETA agreement and how to ensure that, once the CETA agreement has been approved, the mining law will have an impact on it. In fact, the committee has stated that there is full certainty as to whether CETA would have an impact on the handling of such amendments, which was not obtained during the consultation, so we do not know for certain how CETA would have an impact. The committee did not get a sufficient explanation, and they now suggested that this clarification be continued and that such a broader assessment be made. Similarly, we cannot know the effects of CETA, for example, if the order of precedence is changed in this way, that a company will receive its privilege without having to carry out the clarifications required by the law now, that is, if it is a Canadian company, would it have any effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u299	Mr President! However, when there is a timetable for making some changes to our mining law, I would not take Mozambique or Congo as a model country, as the Greens do. What is more important to me is that when we discuss this law and its effects, then we should really base our views on facts. I think that mines can be resisted, but it's worth fighting on the right grounds. Now here comes the picture when you listen to Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Mikko that this government proposal would somehow weaken public consultation or environmental issues, which it does not do at all. The only question is that an operator who has actually been doing research there for, say, 14 years, looking for ore there and spending tens of millions of dollars on it can get the privilege of exploiting it, even though the yva has not been completed. If you are listened to, the picture will come that, even if someone had sacrificed hundreds of millions for 15 years, you would gladly give another company the privilege of it and not that one who has sought that ore. It can't be like this. I think that this is a reasonable thing to see to it that if someone actually acts responsibly and complies with all the regulations, he will also have the opportunity to gain the privilege of establishing that mine if that company has found its presence and spent a lot of money on it. It is in Finland's interest that we make soil research possible here. The exploration is a natural activity that does not damage nature, and it is therefore important that it is done. It is important that we know our soil. The establishment of a mine in Finland with our strict framework conditions, which are important to like from the environmental point of view, is a global environmental act. No similar environmental regulations are required in Mozambique or Congo. It's not the same tax, it's not the same... [KristaMikkonen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u300	Mr President! Social acceptability has become a term. You would think that the town council's land use guidelines, for example the general formula, would have a certain social acceptability. But now I am telling Mr Pirttilahti that at this very moment there is a situation in which this new mining law seems to go over the town planning monopoly. So this is what we would now like to test in court, and now we in the city council are anxious to see if we are allowed to take this forward. With this common sense in mind, it is the municipality that decides by zoning, or by restricting certain types of economic activity to certain areas. We have a sensitive area, a tourist area, a core area, and we have excluded new mining activities from it. Now we should test this out then, get the highest decision we can make on this. But it really surprised me that this was the case. According to this, the municipality would not be able to say how land use is organised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u301	Madam President! This is where Congressman Halmemenpää brought up... Or, in fact, this main argument, which comes from the Greens, that there should be a bypass for irresponsible operators, that there should be less — certainly not. At least I personally do not feel that the irresponsible can do less here. And the fact that the operator does not need to determine when to provide these appendices is false information. The applicant shall indicate in the application the completion of the Annex and justify the time for which they will use it, and the authorities shall also have the possibility to determine when the studies are to be carried out. So this is false information. You don't want to spread all the wrong stuff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u302	Mr President! This bill also states a point where the operator is allowed to assess its time, but may be so, as Pirttilahti says, I do not deny it at all. But the fact that the exploration of ore, which is a scientific research activity, is something that does not leave a trace of nature and which can be carried out without risk, is quite correct, Mr Salmon. It is true that the research activity can and has also left traces of nature and effects, such as the oil spill to the Natura site in Sodankylä, Viiankiaava, which would not belong there. That is why, Mr President, it is essential that, even at this early stage, account is taken of the fact that, when there are plans to hunt ore, mining or rinsing gold somewhere, it does not go anywhere. There are areas which are reserved for other uses, and it is therefore essential that consideration be given to amending the Mining Act in such a way that, for example, the powers of the municipalities referred to here by Mrs Parviainen from Kuusamo and the civil dialogue would be better secured, at an earlier stage, rather than weaker. This should be the case in the Mining Act other than this, at least not in this direction. Mr President! I would like to have at least one reply when I did not receive it from the minister concerned when there are fierce defenders of the amendment here. When it is said here about the effects of the bill that this would streamline the procedure of the authorities and reduce the administrative burden, I ask how this will improve. However, when the same operator has to carry out the same assessments, but only at a different stage, in what way will it streamline or lighten the burden on anyone? It does relieve the operator of the burden of not having to tell us in advance what the potential effects might be, but it does not reduce the public's mind, it makes it heavier. It was also stated here that this would speed up licensing processes. Well, how would it speed them up when, during the authorisation process, these assessments — legal assessments, the environmental impact assessment report and, where appropriate, the Natura evaluation — must be carried out and, however, they should be accompanied by opinions from the authority concerned and so on? I don't understand how this process would get any faster. No one has given an answer to what is needed for this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u303	Mr President! Indeed, it is rather regrettable that in Mozambique mining legislation is better than ours. Of course, Mozambique has a considerable mining tax, and its size still depends a little on what type of mineral you are looking for. A certain percentage of this tax must be paid to the local level. Then, of course, there is corporation tax and income tax, just like we do. In addition, sales of mining rights are subject to a sales profit tax. In addition to that, Mozambique has defined that in the extractive sector a certain ownership must be at local level, that those benefits also remain there locally and not all resources simply exported. In fact, with regard to the Mozambique Mining Act, this is exactly the kind of financial security that is in it, and the economic benefits of what the country can get from it have been assessed quite — I can now remember exactly where it was — to the moderate top. On the other hand, the Finnish Mining Act is attractive from the point of view of international mining companies, because we have licensing processes and these processes as such are quite done from the point of view of companies. There are no such taxes and royalty payments. Responsibility issues are also such that they are not sufficiently defined. For example, there are no such funds as the Mining Liability Fund, which would ensure that the mining industry itself would ensure that, if there were any ex post obligations that the company could not take care of, this sector would then assume joint responsibility for them. Finnwatch, for example, explained that in 2011-2014, due to the aggressive tax planning of mining companies, we missed at least EUR 49 million in taxes for the Finnish State, and in these years when mining companies mined 4 billion worth of minerals, the tax paid to Finland was only 92 million in corporation tax. We also have a lot to improve in mining legislation from this economic point of view, that we do not sell our common mineral resources too cheaply. There are, of course, a lot of these other things that have already been mentioned here in relation to the possibilities of influence and environmental impact assessment and the overall assessment of the impact on other industries and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u304	Mr President! I am not so keen to defend these two changes. These aren't dramatic at all. These are perfectly reasonable, but these aren't dramatic. Instead, I am passionate about the fact that facts are actually used in the argument, and I think it is worth looking into it and getting to grips with it. For example, Mr Halmemenpää, who has just spoken here, argued that there is no need to indicate the environmental impact in advance. No, that's not true. Of course you have to do it in advance. You have to have Yva done before you get permission. Before obtaining authorisation, all consultations shall be duly conducted. This will bring no change to them, nothing at all. It is only a question of whether the right to take advantage of it is a question of whether an application for an authorisation can be submitted which brings its prerogative. And that makes sense that when some people actually invest and act, there won't be someone on the side who then grabs it. And you can't get me to defend the fact that there's something wrong with nature. I myself represent the view that, for example, in my own country, Lapland, where there are many of these deposits, there is no need for a well that ruins our waters or nature in general — none of that. But even those demands must actually be defended by the right facts and by studying this process. And I would also like to say that when it is said that we have no taxation on mines, there is taxation on them. They are subject to the same tax as any other business activity. There may not be exactly the same corporate taxation as we do in Mozambique. There may not be the same tax on wages as we do. We also have environmental damage insurance, which is compulsory for all mines, but it only applies to environmental damage, and that is perhaps a slightly inadequate and inefficient system, but it does exist anyway. And it is a fact that we have some problems with the fact that there is a mine that has gone bankrupt and then has been left to the taxpayers to pay for the restoration work. Corrections are needed, but they must also be done with the real facts and not by claiming that this law would somehow weaken the impact on the environment. Neither this law nor the bill of amendment to this law will do so. This is not dramatic to any extent from that point of view. This will make it smoother. When asked how this makes it smoother: it makes it smoother so that Ely and Tukes can better coordinate the permit process together — it probably won’t speed it up, but it makes it more meaningful and sensible. And it is clear that municipalities must always have, through planning, the right to veto whether or not there will be a mining in the municipality's territory. That is what we are holding tight in the centre now and in the future. It is the ‘social concession’thatthe project for the approval of citizens of the Community is alwaysto be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u305	Mr President! The unfortunate situation is that, even at the moment, the municipalities do not have such veto rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u312	Madam President! This is an excellent debate. We in the Nordic Council are in the same middle group as the Greens, and that is where we have just taken initiatives on these same principles, as Mr Halmemenpää said, to seek a sustainable basis for mining, and they are driven to the whole of the Nordic countries with the same attitude. We have exactly the same attitude here that nature should not be ruined and that account should be taken of the community in which it operates — from these points of view — and aftercare should be taken into account. To this question of cutting red tape: At least in this way I would understand that if that reserve area is quite extensive and is being searched there and then targeted at a location, then it can be done in a more high-quality area, thus lightening it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u315	Mr President! I was forced to return to this place when I heard again an argument that was not true, namely that this would somehow undermine the influence of the people in the region. It does not weaken at all, because this does not make any change, there is no change here. It is only possible to submit an application here, but this does not necessarily speed up the process, because all the same conditions that are required today remain. In fact, the status of the inhabitants will improve because they will receive more accurate and up - to - date information at that base.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u319	Madam President! Now the thing is, there's gonna be a change. I somehow understood from that speech by Mr Salmon that it was as if nothing were going to change, but this is something that will change, and that is the change in the timetable. But the main thing is that I would like to hear what this government proposal is for, and there was no response to it in this debate. It is then left to committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u320	That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u321	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 33/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u322	Mr President! Now there is a more familiar light car behind the title — the government’s proposal for legislation on amending the vehicle law and the driving licence law and some related laws — for Parliament. In other words, a little reflection on the background: as long as young people have been travelling in Finland by moped cars, there have been a number of representatives in this room who have wondered how to make the situation safer, and now we are in a situation where this kind of solution is found or found. This is therefore a new category of vehicles called light cars. They are therefore normal cars, but they are T-category vehicles and are allowed to drive them with an AM-category driving licence. It is also worth mentioning here why it would not be good enough for the elderly too or for anyone to be a vehicle. This is an issue that has been considered in a very diverse and multifaceted way. This can be seen on the one hand as an environmentally friendly issue, on the other hand, as an environmental burden. On the one hand, this can be seen as an increase in security, and on the other hand, it can be seen as a deterioration in security. But the clear majority of the committee, with particular emphasis on security, is in favour of this and sees this as a matter of improving security. In other words, since these are ‘normal cars’and soaring,there are always new safety equipment,which is standard equipment,andthere are new technologies,such as automatic brake systems,other Well, that's the fact that what's optional today is a little bit of standard equipment. In other words, this is the security aspect, and this is the basis of a large part of the changes that we have made in committee. This is therefore an alternative to mopeds, mopeds or other forms of mobility, for example. This therefore does not exclude anything; it is an option and offers mobility opportunities for young people, especially in an area where there is no public transport, to move a little more freely. This was also considered so that when a young person gets to move more easily into his hobbies, the family can also get easier, because the father and mother no longer necessarily have to carry their children to hockey practice and drive back and forth from there, i.e. this kind of environmental outlook can arise. And while this is a standard car, it will be checked back into a car at some point, and the young person can practically have the same vehicle under the age of 15 only after a small change survey. But since this is such a big change and a whole new category of vehicles, this kind of thing always involves certain types of risks. We stress very strongly the importance of monitoring in this context, and if there are any problems, the various authorities will also be required to act without delay on their findings. The committee also wants to see what experience has been gained. The change, which is also a matter of reducing backsliding, is a slow vehicle plate. We demand it back there so that it is separated from the rear that the vehicle is moving a little slower. Speed. We are also thinking about it from a number of different points of view and concluded that, given the overall picture, it is better to limit it to 60 kilometres per hour, with completely new perspectives: more smooth traffic, less need for bypassing, and less risk of back-up. But, let me emphasise again, it is natural that all traffic rules apply to light cars, i.e. if you drive in a city and there is a 30-speed limit, then of course you drive 30. There is also the fact that, if there had been a 45-block limit in the fifty-fifty region, it would have been the model behind it, and according to an expert consultation, consumption would then have increased and, of course, this is not a good thing in current environmental policy. It was also found that the old saying ‘nomopolla motorway’ is also held here, i.e. this is the second and the second and not the second. The fact is that as long as a person has had vehicles, they have been tuned. It is a risk that exists and can never be completely circumvented, but this increase in speed can also reduce the need for tuning. Now it has been tried to pay attention to it and is also encouraged to look for ways to prevent or at least find these kinds of possible tunings, i.e. surveying or some kind of black box or like building a constrictor or for example sealing it. But when such all the techniques are put into it, you will naturally need to look at how they work and what is the assessment of the legal views as well. If this kind of tuning is involved, then a strong interpretation is that it is then the transport of a vehicle without the right, and then of course there will be a ban on driving, i.e. fines and all-looking. But nothing works if there is no supervision on the road, so it is to be emphasised again. Then again: since earlier proposals have almost always fallen on some EU issues, this has now been reviewed. It has been explained from the Ministry that, on this basis, we have the courage to move forward, and that is why this is now here. Here are two proposals for statements, one of which emphasises and concerns monitoring and reporting, and the other on the slow-track triangle. This had a large majority in the committee, but there has also been a rejection clause, which will then be put to the vote later. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u323	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! So we now have a government proposal at first reading which has been going through committee work for years, mainly in rural areas and in medium-sized cities, where young people are moving more and more not only on mopeds but also on mopeds. This presentation enables new mobility, especially for young people, from 15 to 17 years of age, when we introduce a new group of vehicles in the future, from 1 November 2019, light cars. Today's mopeds, which will not continue to be banned by this law, are often seen as unsafe in traffic and have been accompanied by unfortunate road accidents. During their life cycle, each moped will, on average, be injured at least once and one in five mopeds in a traffic accident leading to personal injury. With a light-duty car, young people in particular will be given a safe alternative to mobility, which can be of great benefit to young people and families, especially in areas where public transport is simply not available. Compared to a moped, a light car may be a longer-term option, some of which, according to an analysis of the costs of the vehicle, is smaller than that of a moped. As an alternative to a light-duty car, the legislative project for a moped car is justified in order to improve road safety. Of course, there's a side to it. The restricted light vehicle is completely different in mass from the moped, and therefore in the event of a possible collision, the impact energy is also several times higher. The maximum permissible mass of a light-duty car is 1500 kg, and in committee we also wanted to make it possible for electric cars to be used as light-duty cars and, because of the extra weight associated with batteries, we tabled a proposal for a change in the section, according to which the maximum mass of electric cars would be 1800 kg. Madam President! As expected, during the consultation round and in the committee hearings, it emerged that the speed limit should not be too easy to dismantle. As a rule, I want to trust families and young people, but if the restriction is too easy to circumvent, it is also easily circumvented, and each of us will be aware that supervision will be challenging at least with this. In the committee's work, we stressed the central importance of road monitoring, but also the use of all technical possibilities for monitoring the use of speed limitation devices. The advance feedback has mainly come from professional drivers in relation to the smooth flow of traffic if the number of passenger cars with limited speed increases significantly. In committee, we changed the government proposal so that instead of the proposed 45 km/h, the maximum design speed of a light car is limited to 60 km/h. The change will make transport smoother and also have positive environmental impacts. With regard to the estimates that some young people will be diverted from the use of public transport through the reform, I would like to point out that there is certainly no possibility of going to studies and hobbies in rural towns and rural areas with public transport at all today. From the climate point of view, we must also take into account the fact that some mopeds and mopeds will be replaced by light cars, which in themselves are better for the environment. In addition, improving the opportunities for young people to move independently will in practice reduce the cost of driving parents to study, hobbies and friends. The costs of the reform have also been considered during the discussion. Who really benefits from this, and can families afford to buy and give young people a car up to ten years old, but at least a passenger car introduced in 2014 or later? In this debate, it should be borne in mind that a second-hand moped costs almost EUR 10,000 and a new one even more than EUR 15,000, which means that it is not cheap to drive a moped or accessible to all families. So I feel that this is a problematic reason to oppose this bill. Mr President! During the hearing, critics argued several times that after a change of law 8,000 mopeds instead of as many as 40,000 light-duty cars are in the hands of our young people in traffic. More than I would have wanted figures and estimates of how much of the families will have a light car as a second car for the family, how many more polluting mopeds and mopeds will change into a light car, how many families will run out of double trips, when young people can move independently, and how many cities and municipalities will have easy access to school and hobbies today. Madam President! I am in favour of the draft law on the basis of the amendments made by the committee, and I also dare to think out loud at this first reading that not only is this proposal to be supported, but it will also be non-neutral in practical life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u324	Mr President! Improving road safety for young people is a valuable objective. Unfortunately, however, this law does not promote security, rather the contrary. The preparation of this law has started with concern about the safety of mopeds. In particular, their impact resistance has been considered weak. That is why it has been sought to create a new category of vehicles alongside the mopeds, a light-duty vehicle which would in practice be a small passenger car with a speed limit, even if it were legally classified as a tractor. However, even during the drafting of the law, it has become clear that light cars do not significantly improve road safety. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal, road safety would be improved mainly to the extent that light cars would replace mopeds, not mopeds. This was also confirmed by the experts consulted in committee. The real risk of safety for young motor vehicles when it comes to mopeds — mopeds with a multiple risk of accidents compared to mopeds and light-duty vehicles — and their collision safety is very poor. Mr President! In order to improve the flow of traffic, the committee decided to increase the maximum speed of light-duty vehicles from 45 km/h to 60 km/h, thus reducing the reaction times of drivers, extending the braking journeys and increasing the severity of the crash. The motion energy of the vehicle rises to the second power of speed, i.e. the impact at 60 km/h is 78 per cent more powerful than at 45 km/h. This is where the safety of young people and other road users is likely to be impaired, especially when a light-duty car can be driven by the same AM/121 driving licence as a moped. In other words, a 15-year-old driver gets into the wheel of a 30 km/h passenger car after a four-hour theory lesson, a theoretical test and a driving test. So mandatory instruction would be only four hours of theory. Mr President! Finland is committed to reducing its climate emissions rapidly. The President of the Republic also recently stated at the UN climate conference in Katowice that Finland must also speed up its climate action. It would therefore be surprising if the government were to introduce legislation which, in its own opinion, would increase CO2 emissions from transport — that is to say, slow down Finland’s climate action. Lightweight cars would increase the climate emissions of transport. This is not a speculation on the part of the opposition, but an increase in emissions is stated in the explanatory statement and confirmed by the experts consulted by the committee. The Government therefore consciously wants to increase emissions from traffic in Finland. At this stage in the climate crisis, we really must not adopt legislation that actively accelerates climate change. Mr President! This presentation shall not be accompanied by changes or statements. It must be rejected in its entirety, as stated in our protest, but we will return to it at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u325	Mr President! Now I must thank the government for this excellent proposal. I understand that when we live here in the capital region, where public transport works well, as in many large cities, there is no need for such a light-duty car or modern mopeds. But if we go, it is said, even in medium-sized cities where public transport is not really working very well today, not to mention sparsely populated areas, I think that this very well responds to today's young people's need to move not only to school but also to hobbies, and it does provide security for that movement. If you think of today’s mopeds, they are rather unsafe booths. In my view, even in terms of traffic flow and safety, the Committee on Transport and Communications made a wise decision by raising speed from 45 km/h to 60 km/h. I think that's a perfectly justified decision. Instead, I would like to ask, when the chairman of the committee is here, whether the question of the age of the car was referred to you in the committee. Would it be better if we had preferred to leave it with certain safety equipment? If you think of the provision in particular at the entry into force of this law, i.e. the car registered on or after 1 January 2015 should be in question, and then later, though, not more than ten years old, when we have a survey system and we drive many ten years old cars in traffic, even on the highway 120 km/h legally, they may not even have such ABS brakes or other stability systems, then why should we limit the age of a car in a car with a maximum speed of 60 km/h? Would it be better to require the safety equipment, which would also enable a more deprived and low-income family to acquire a safe older car, yet a much safer alternative for this young person than a moped or moped? Now that you look at these prices, no such car, even the cheapest car in 2015, will get just under 10,000 euros, and those cars, which are 10 years old, are worth quite a lot. This is actually the only question I have here. Otherwise, I think this is a good thing. I can also say that I myself would also be prepared to slide down a bit in that age of driving licence. We have a lot of countries that have
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u326	Mr President! A few aspects of this report. So this age question of cars, what does the representative say? The salmon has just pointed out: I also see it as an opportunity, in a way, to rejuvenate our car fleet. With the chronic problem of cars being too old, here comes the incentive to rejuvenate their car fleet. At least in my own understanding, there could also be problems with the technical side of the light car conversion if the cars were very old, with the compatibility of their control systems and the like, to get it out of the car so that it cannot be tuned. At least this would be what I feel about it. Of course, the calculations of the plant on motion energy are mathematically correct, but when laws are introduced, the basic assumption must be that the law is respected and speed limits are respected, i.e. the 60th mile radius is not driven and the risk of an accident is thus caused. I would like to point out something that has not been mentioned in the past, but that this should take seriously the concerns of industry and amateur organisations about the impact of the introduction of a light-duty car on the market for two-wheeled vehicles and the number of cards being carried out. When it has already been made difficult to complete a motorcycle card, how many fewer will drive it in the future when the moped phase has been missed, while this is intended to reduce the number of mopeds? However, no one wants the two-wheeled market to deteriorate further, and we also have a national strategy for two-wheelers. I therefore throw out the idea and the challenge that if these presentations were to reduce the market for two-wheeled vehicles and the number of driving licences, could we have some ways of improving the conditions and cost structure of the motorcycle?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u327	Mr President! Good conversation, thank you. Indeed, the plant pointed out that this four-hour requirement for the first licence was required from the driving school or driving licence. I am taking some liberties now, but I am interpreting the committee in such a way that the committee sees it as an opportunity not only to be a theory, but to be constantly developed, precisely in view of the personal needs of the person driving the licence. So the theory may be more necessary for one, and it may then be necessary for the other to have a little test drive as to how the traffic feels. So, as President, I dare to say the message that this should be developed and that solutions should be considered as a better option. The salmon specifically asked for age and price: If we compare the alternatives — that is to say, this does not in any way overshadow the moped, the moped is still an option — for example, the price of a moped and a car, then the new prices will go up from about 10 tonnes for both of them, and then, if we look at the market used, it is true that the car keeps its price better, so it is also a sort of more stable investment for that young person, and you can get back from it by changing its own car, and it is a longer-term solution. President! Do you mind if I go on for two more minutes? [President PaulaRisikko :Yes,3 minutes to speak. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u330	Mr President! I just want to correct Mr Salmon's misunderstanding, which is also common in Finland, that there are mopeds only in rural areas where public transport does not work. I invite the representative of Salmon and others on a study trip to the second largest city in Finland, whose border is seven kilometres west of here. It starts in Mopo Auto Finland, as you can see in the courtyard of every secondary school, high school and ice hall – even though buses, trains and subways are also running.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u331	Mr President! I did not say in that speech that there were only mopeds in rural areas, but I said that here in the city where public transport operates, this would not necessarily be necessary, but would be able to use public transport. There is a special need for this type of legislation where public transport does not work and young people do, however, need to move to hobbies and schools. That's where this kind of legislation brings help. Instead, where we live now, and in the vicinity of public transport, young people are able to travel by bus and by tram and by metro. In fact, I would be a little more optimistic about the age of a family who, when this law comes into force in 2019, acquires a brand-new car with all the best safety equipment and who has three children, of which in 11 years' time the youngest would be at the age of being able to use the same car, so even though it is equipped with all the best safety equipment, it suddenly comes to this age of ten years, which I do not think is justified. It would be more justified not to impose a age limit but rather to impose conditions such as ABS brakes and a stability management system. I understand, of course, that we have to go back and rejuvenate the car fleet, but I would see that it would be better to leave the end where the car is going a little faster and not these young cars. When you put these things on limiters, these aren't usually family second cars, but maybe more third cars, because they then can't make any other trip when you can't drive on motorways, and they're mostly bought for its young people. Then this wealth will become a certain threshold. But it is good, as a whole, that this proposal is progressing. I believe that this is also a security issue and a major improvement in the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u332	Mr President! Let's keep this conversation going. This kind of light car is hardly the only car in the family, as Mrs Salmon said, so it is assumed that the father or mother or both already have a light car. Then in 11 years’ time, when you have had to check back into your normal car, the new light car you bought, if your father had a ten - year - old car, then it is twenty years old. Is it not positive that it will be changed to a newer one and then made into a light car, when this new car has come for the rest of the family? In other words, this can be seen in many ways, but in any case it will be positive if our car fleet is renewed. As a motorist, Mäkelä raised a good point of view, which has also reflected on me and has also come in the expert consultation, so here is also this motorcycle and moped market and the whole. So very often the biggest market product of motorcyclists at the moment is a moped, and it keeps its company going, and then that same company gives motorists helmets and other ride equipment. If this weakens the economic situation, then there may be some difficulty in these other matters, and this is a matter of personal concern. But despite that, I am absolutely in favour of this proposal, because someone always installs these limiters. I therefore encourage these modern-day moped dealers to find themselves a new niche in the market, i.e. all the things involved in installing these limiters. Thank you for this debate. This is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u333	Mr President! I understand this point of view that it would certainly be a good thing to be updated to a more recent car, but I only worry about those families who may not have enough money to buy that ten-ton car. There are many of these families, and their young people must also have the same need to move around. I myself have another car, which is first registered in 2005, with airbags and stability control systems, all excellent equipment, but it would not be like this, even though it is equipped with new technology. This is, in that sense, a little relative at all times, but this aspect has certainly also been discussed in the drafting of the law, and that is what has happened. If we find here along the way that this is not working very well and that this can be changed, then there is always little to be done to correct the legislation. But it is good that this package is now moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u334	Mr President! I share Mrs Salmon's concern that this good legislative proposal in itself will become a problem for families with limited resources. But in this context, I can bring you the joy of a family that, as a result of good legislative work in Parliament, had received a driving licence for a 17-year-old on the basis of an overall assessment — long journeys, sparsely populated areas and poor transport services — indeed the joy of having a B-card at 17 years of age and being able to drive in the right car. So this too should be taken into account if there are real grounds for it. This should be used by families to get the right driving licence and the right car.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u335	That is precisely the case, that is to say, with the renewal of the driving licence, that is possible, and this has now actually been set at the minimum or the maximum as to how we want to see what the EU allows. So that card has been used and taken into account before. I'm still going back to this price. The age of the Finnish vehicle fleet is far too high, and in some way it needs to be renewed. If I correctly interpret the views and speeches of the various parties, then I guess that the reduction in the car tax will continue, which will then have a downgrading effect on the price of cars, which will allow us to catch up with a better and safer, less-emission car, and that is precisely what will improve safety as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u336	Mr President! To take a brief position on this car price debate and on the ten-year-old: In addition to lowering this car tax, it could be that if the car from which we start to make a light car were to pay a new EUR 15,000 today, according to the general experience of life, its value will be about halved within four years of its acquisition and after ten years there will be no huge amount of that residual value left. So if, after four years, it is worth EUR 7500, then perhaps three, four thousand, only ten years later. Probably not. So that's a reasonable price right there. Of course, when it comes to the use of electric cars as light cars, the cost of electric cars is much higher than the cost of such cheap internal combustion cars, which I used in my example. In addition to that, I think there is a slightly disturbing exemption from the weight of electric cars, which should amount to 1,800 kilos of 1500 kilos. I think it is a little unwarranted, because it is only based on the fact that electric car batteries now happen to weigh more than the fuel tank of an internal combustion engine, and it in itself does not improve road safety in any way if we allow heavier electric cars to drive, but it is also a bit ideological in nature in this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u337	Madam President! In short, I would like to say to this debate in this Chamber, which has now taken place through these shorter speeches, that we were certainly every single member of the committee concerned about this or we took the floor in connection with the preparatory debate that this is not necessarily an alternative to all families in economic terms. So the most deprived families will certainly not be able to make this light car possible for that 15-year-old, but on the other hand it cannot be a reason to oppose this bill either. And, as I pointed out in my own speech, it has not been possible for all families to have a moped with a new cost of up to EUR 15,000, and, when used in our child's circle of friends, these mopeds have paid between EUR 8 thousand and EUR 10 thousand, so that they talk about very significant and large sums compared to the alternative, even if the young person chooses the most insecure option, that is to say, the two-wheel moped, according to the statistics. But then, on the other hand, there is this value debate that what these light cars are going to cost: if and when they can be bought in families and made possible for young people to move through this safer light car, then of course the value is also that he will be able to drive with that light-duty car after his youth and then seriously after this change survey to continue driving with the same drive at the age of 18 when his official driving licence age is to be reached. That in itself, too, it must be thought that even if it is more expensive at the beginning of the purchase, then at least it has not been bought under that moped or moped, but then comes this light-weight car, and it lasts for a long time and is therefore also a more sustainable option from the environmental point of view. Then Mr Mäkelä will probably not disagree very much on this subject in itself when you spoke about this problem of electric cars, that there will now be a different weight limit for electric cars. With the knowledge that I have — and I admit that I am not at all an expert here — we wanted to join these objectives of the climate and energy report, which are also binding on us, and we wanted these electric cars to be absolutely involved in this. It is just that the battery technology of an electric car or the weights of batteries are of the kind that we then experienced in committee that this 1800 kg is such that we also enable electric cars to be made possible in these light cars. However, I feel that it is also an important signal for climate policy reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u338	Mr President! One more comment on this electric car debate: This is one of the changes the committee has made. There was no weight limit for an electric car in the performance, but it was stated in the committee that since it is based specifically on safety in terms of its impact energy, there must be a limit. And now it is estimated that the same car model, the same brand and model — then it is just the energy form: electricity or some internal combustion engine — will hit this same fork now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u339	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 23/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u340	Mr President! The Government proposal improves the rights of the so-called non-owners working in the company and reduces financial risks. They will therefore be employees in the unemployment benefit system instead of entrepreneurs. Today they are in a situation where they are regarded as entrepreneurs in the unemployment benefit system, even though they are considered employees in other social insurance and labour legislation. This is, of course, a very good thing that this is progressing now during this term of government. From the point of view of the entrepreneur's non-ownership family member, a significant improvement is also that he can work part-time in the company and receive an adjusted daily allowance. But from the point of view of the beneficiary, there is a certain difficulty: in a way, a new category was formed here, i.e. the non-owner family members of the entrepreneur are not fully equal to employees, because the length of the working conditions of the non-owner family member of the entrepreneur is proposed to be 52 weeks, while the others have 26 weeks. But there are good reasons. If you look there from the point of view of the beneficiary, this may be difficult to understand and complex. In committee, we did find that we have complex systems, and certainly there is a need for clarification in this unemployment benefit system as well. In other words, we also felt that further development work should be carried out as employees and entrepreneurs in order to improve the unemployment security of those working at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u341	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what Mrs Parviainen has said before. This government proposal is excellent and long-awaited even for many assisting families, where there has been an injustice in the face of the fact that a family member who does not own a business and may not even have worked there has, however, been interpreted as an entrepreneur when the unemployment situation has hit. This has, of course, become many contacts with myself from entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial families. There may be very different situations. There have been situations of generational change where there has been a need to adapt and those who give up or who are members of the family have not been able to continue in the company. There has been no ownership link, but it has still been dropped on nothing, and this if I think that anyone is more justice, that this change is now finally being made into the law. So now we have to thank the government. This is an excellent reform and a just one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u342	Mr President! Indeed, when there is a place for commendation, there is reason to thank the government. It is very good that this change is now coming and that the family members of the entrepreneur are better placed to benefit from social security and unemployment security. This is a very important reform, for which I thank the government. But, indeed, as Mrs Parviainen said earlier, the problem is, in a way, that the time limit for working is different for workers other than for members of the assisting family who are employees. Of course, it would be desirable to have the same line as the others in the future, but the reform itself is very important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u343	The 24th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 32/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u344	Mr President! This is a pilotage law, which is relatively unproblematic, and a small debate has made progress. There have been no major differences. In other words, in terms of infrastructure, it is now intended to enable more free access to the market and access to modern activities, and it is this which will enable the introduction of new technologies, such as remote pilotage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u345	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 34/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u346	Mr President! Here, too, there is a very unanimous issue. It is precisely the quality and functionality of this type of public authority network that is at stake, i.e. modern authorities can also require measures that require a broadband communication service for sending live images, for example. This will therefore improve the capacity of the authorities to act. The committee has been concerned about this — and I personally emphasised it myself as a fireman — that it cannot have blind spots, i.e. the network in which this works, must include cities with a lot of people and a lot of broadband activity, as well as in sparsely populated areas, where there are not necessarily links so much, and also in buildings with different appearances, which means that attention has also been paid to indoor coverage. Of course, when it comes to the tasks of the authorities, it must also work in those situations when there is a big mass event and there is congestion on the network. This public authority channel must be able to operate even in that situation, and it has, in a way, been given a right of advantage, which is also able to operate in a situation where there is normally no room for watching online videos, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-12-ps-129.u347	Mr President! I think that this committee's report has taken quite well into account the issues and points of concern in this area. I'm gonna bring up a couple of these myself: After all, when talking about data networks, mobile data is too thin in urban areas. I do not know whether there is necessarily a lack of transparency at the level of speaking in urban areas, i.e. the public authority network itself will probably work in those areas too, perhaps not in terms of data, but in terms of speech. I think it is worth noting that, from the point of view of both cyber security and physical security, we are now going to go to the point where these base stations, in which this network would also operate, are public information and their functioning in crisis situations should also be able to be secured. It occurred to me that these prioritized, prioritized accessions, when operators have previously claimed that they do not exist, they can now be found for such use by the authorities. It is all right that we have found it, but it must be emphasised that these connections should be used only for official duties and duties and not for anything else through prioritisation. That, too, has been taken into account in the committee's report.
