ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u1	The Prime Minister's announcement of the Government's policy in 2018 and the main proposals to Parliament is the 2nd issue of the Order. Prime Minister Juha Group speeches following Mr Sipilä's presentation may take up to 5 minutes. Then, at my discretion, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved using the V button. The first speaker is Mr Sipilä. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u2	Mr President, ärade talman! Finland’s 100th anniversary was over-expected last year. We made a year together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u3	Mr President! Happy Valentine's Day also on behalf of the Central Parliamentary Group! Mr President! In an uncertain world, a country with its own affairs is the most sustainable. Finland’s future is on a very solid basis in this respect. Finland’s security rests on a long-term, commonly agreed policy that does not include military alliances. It is wise to follow the line supported by the majority of Finns in the future. The most important thing for Finland's security is to promote the stability of our neighbouring regions, but the Centre believes that Finland must also take initiative globally. Cooperation is the most sustainable way to stand up for Finland. Mr President! The world is changing so fast that even internal politics cannot afford to be in trouble. The legacy of the previous government was not much: Finland was inoperative and was, unfortunately, heading towards an ever worse level. The fact is that, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, only unemployment and debt grew in this country. The fact is that Finland is now rising. Our country's economy is growing, employment is improving, and the end of living in debt is finally on the horizon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u10	The Parliament Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Jokinen. — I would ask you to take account of the times given, both by the representatives and by the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u11	Mr President! My friends! After almost a decade of difficulties, our economy has again been caught under the wings and is heading in the right direction. Rapid economic growth has finally also been reflected in the development of employment. According to Statistics Finland's latest figures, our employment rate was already approaching 71 per cent at the end of the year. The impossible seems unexpectedly possible; a goal-oriented government can reach its employment target of 72% even ahead of schedule. In December, the employment rate was highest in 27 years. Regardless of the opposition, the government has assumed its responsibilities and made the necessary decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u22	Mr President! Trust, ‘tills’. This word is summed up in the essence of the Finnish welfare state, our common home. Finland has been developed from the point of view of the common good and in the spirit of trust. Despite all the difficulties, we have been able to create a confidence society that has accelerated major reforms. The more confidence there has been, the easier it has been to renew. We Finns have understood that, despite people’s different backgrounds and personal qualities, the best way to build a common good is to keep everyone involved — when everyone’s life is better today than yesterday and tomorrow than it is today. The key to building a confidence society has been that the most vulnerable people are taken care of in recognition of their dignity as a human being. Today we have read in the newspapers about a report which states that the economic situation of low-income people is deteriorating significantly during this parliamentary term. It's really hard to read, hard to read. This doesn't inspire trust. Mr President, ärade talman! The world is changing at an unprecedented rate. Climate change, overuse of natural resources, technological development and changes in the global economy affect the lives of all people on the planet, including here in Finland. Urbanisation is also an impressive megatrend for us, and Finland is not excluded from the effects of learning artificial intelligence. Finland cannot close its borders or declare that we do not want to be involved in a changing world or in Europe. Whether we like it or not, we're in. We can either influence the change or follow the change side by side. Mr President! In the midst of this change, we need the courage to undertake reforms that will enable sustainable economic, social and ecological development. The best way to cope with change is to have the skills and the ability and will to continuously develop it. That is why we need free early childhood education for all children as soon as possible. It creates a strong basis for all kinds of learners to increase their skills. We need a genuinely free vocational and upper secondary school education for everyone. No young person must fall outside education or employment. We need more resources for the skills programme for young adults and money for the development of adult education through, for example, an open university. Bring those at risk of exclusion to life and strengthen people's ability to renew their own skills. These investments we cannot afford not to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u25	Mr President! Government debt has slowed down, even on Valentine's Day. Rapid economic growth continues. The solutions at the beginning of the Government term are already visible and felt in the everyday lives of ordinary Finns. Growth belongs to everyone and everywhere. In Statistics Finland's latest Consumer Survey, the mood of consumers is higher than ever in the measurement history. Employment strengthened strongly last year, and the most recent measurement of Statistics Finland's employment rate is 70.7 per cent. Measures to improve employment have been bit. Over 69,000 more people have been employed under this government. The target of 72% employment rates can be achieved. The employment rate in Finland is better than in 27 years. Minister of Labour Jari Lindström is now a Finnish record man. No Minister for Employment has seen the number of unemployed job seekers fall as much on a monthly basis. The Blue Parliamentary Group stands behind the decisions taken and continues to reform Finland. Finns are an intelligent people. The work of the person who did it thanks you. Mr President! Of course, the major reform of the entire government has been the reform of social security. The strong view of the Blues is that this government will bring the social welfare reform to the finish line according to the agreed timetable. The outcome must be on a human and economically sustainable basis, and it is essential that people who need services are at the heart of the wars. Even a low-income Finn gets what has already been possible for the wealthy: freedom of choice. The starting point for blues is that the public is a strong host and a private servant. Large companies will not play a key role in social welfare and health care when there is a strong public organiser behind them: province, municipality or state. Mr President! The security of the Fatherland is a matter of heart to me and the blue ones. During this term of government, defence has been strongly developed under the leadership of Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö. Above all, we have invested in developing the capacity to respond to new types of threats. The capacity has been improved through various legislative projects, investments in material capacity and the development of operational methods. The most important project since the beginning of spring is intelligence legislation. You don't have to be too busy putting it into effect. The political game is the security of Finns. The military intelligence system needs to be updated to reflect the changed security environment and technological developments. The development of international defence cooperation will also continue this year. Cooperation with Sweden, the United States and NATO in particular will be developed. Finland is part of the West. Mr President! During this term of government, Finland has for the first time taken a constructive, critical EU line. Projects of benefit to Finland have been promoted, but it has also been dared to disagree with the leading EU countries. During Sampo Terho’s term, Finland has made bold policies that have taken a proactive stance on the EU’s development plans. The UK's EU separation calls for reform of the EU. The Blues want the EU to be a union of independent nation states. Not everything should be said ‘no’,but not everything should be said ‘yes’. Economic and monetary union The development of EMU is accompanied by a number of proposals. It is important for Finland that the drain of public money to save banks or states is stopped. Finns are in favour of EU membership, but only if membership benefits Finland's economy and security. In asylum policy, blues force the government to stick to the agreement. According to the Government Programme, the refugee quota is 750 people a year. We want to help those in need, but Finland is a small country in a large world. There's a limit to everything. Mr President! The first report on sports policy launched by Minister Terho will be submitted to Parliament in June. The focus of the report is on improving the ability of children and young people to exercise in deprived families and helping young people to move ahead with their talents. Every young person has the opportunity to engage in a hobby. No one’s success and advancement in the chosen species must depend on his background. The Blue Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that the experiment on the free choice of languages agreed in the Government negotiations is also taking place this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u26	Mr President! One of the most important issues in the last parliamentary term is the direction of EU development. The new German Government seems to support President Macron's ideas of increasing solidarity and a debt and transfer union. They would severely discipline the Finnish taxpayer. The Sipilä government rejects federal development in its speeches, but not in its actions. Finland will remain in the role of spectator and payer if we do not find partners to halt federal development. The European Central Bank has already bought hundreds of billions of euro of junk loans from problem banks in crisis countries. The Finns do not accept solidarity between debts and the EU Federation. We require a communication from the government on EU and euro policy and the development of Finland's membership fees. Mr President! Decisive action is needed to manage illegal immigration. EU asylum policy has failed when external borders leak and agreements are not respected. Finland has quietly become one of the most liberal countries in Europe in terms of asylum seekers, family reunification, length of residence permits, conditions for granting citizenship, border control and services for illegal residents. [ Hustles from the left] The direction of Europe is different. According to the recent Danish Social Democrats programme, the country would not accept any asylum seekers, but only the most insecure refugees from reception centres in the vicinity of crisis areas. [left: Multiple refugee quota!] The Sipilä Government must also tighten up its immigration policy. When you do that, future generations will be deeply grateful. Mr President! Social and health care reform is needed, but not at all costs. The government made a serious mistake in abandoning the method of reform in accordance with the Government Programme and in preparing a model of freedom of choice strongly lobbyed by the background circles of the Coalition Party. International health companies are gaining an unprecedented market and the expensive bill is being paid by the citizens. The Finns Party called for a return to the original plan, which first involves a controlled social welfare reform and an increase in freedom of choice for a justified reason only after the experiments. Mr President! The Finns of Peru support the reform of the Intelligence Act. The terrorist attack in Turku was a serious reminder of the deterioration of our security when borders are not controlled and intelligence is not working. We still want to ensure that fundamental rights are safeguarded. The amendment of the laws in the urgent order of the Constitution is exceptional and requires careful consideration, especially as the parliamentary term approaches its end. In particular, we look forward to the position of the Constitutional Committee with its arguments. Mr President! Economic growth does not come about by itself. The Finns of Peru rushed the implementation of major transport projects. Transport must be smooth and affordable, promoting employment and business. Housing must be cheaper and the purchasing power of low- and middle-income employees and pensioners must be increased. Parliament's work on reducing the business support jungle must be taken seriously. As a small nation, Finland must invest in education and research. In addition to the law on upper secondary schools, education must be developed at all levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u29	Mr President! There's a lot of talk in this room about debt. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about. Too often, however, we focus only on the euro. Of course, folding the euro debt is an important objective. However, in the name of that objective, it is not possible to reduce the level of competence and increase the income gap. Nor, in the name of that objective, can we increase the environmental and climate debt that will fall on the shoulders of future generations. It is essential to look further, in Finland for the next 100 years, and not just stare under a one-year line. Mr President! During his hundred - year - old journey, our nation has risen from poverty to one of the wealthiest and most competent nations in the world. This has been achieved through historical grandeurs, the most important of which is the ability of each child to train and pursue his dreams. Now is the time to ask what Finland will look like for the next 100 years. In the next 100 years, we are going to be in a situation where the nausea of children and young people accumulates and the lack of education is inherited, in a situation where the learning outcomes of schoolchildren are falling and the gender gaps in learning are greatest in the OECD countries, in a situation where the unemployed child is not entitled to full-time early education. One primary school principal and special teacher summed up well why it is our duty to worry about these issues: ‘The decision-makers should understand that today’s school is not just a place to be taught. For some of the students, it is the only place where the child will be seen and interested.” Mr President, this underscores the importance of investing in education and training. The Greens' choice of values would have been to invest half a billion euros more in education this year. We Greens want to build a child-friendly Finland. Every child’s dreams are equally important and no child’s school path must be cut too early. Mr President! Education is also an economic issue. Working life is changing. It has also been recognized by the government. The government has also recognised that the 620 000 people who do not have secondary education are particularly at risk of falling from the labour market. The government claims to respond to these concerns through vocational training reform, even though it has actually cut EUR 190 million from vocational education and training. These cuts will lead to an increasing number of young people being left alone to learn at the workplace and, at the same time, teachers being forced to resign. Over the coming years, these cuts will lead to regional inequalities as training places are reduced and offices are closed down to smaller localities. Mr President! The Greens welcome every new job and the strengthening of the economy. There is a debate on sandbox policy about when and by whom economic growth has finally come to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u32	Mr President! The eyes are the mirror of the soul, but the mouth tells of the position in society. The poor can't afford a dentist. Health inequalities between the population groups are more and more pronounced in Finland and in international terms. In Finland, a man of little means dies six years earlier than a wealthy man. Mr President! The biggest issue of spring and the most important issue of the whole parliamentary term in Parliament is the reform of social welfare and health care. Social welfare reform is needed to allow Finns to rely again on public health care. However, if the government's social welfare proposal is implemented, the customer fees will rise even further. The poor can no longer afford to care for their ills and health inequalities increase. The social model based on the government's market economy is expensive for the Finnish economy and patients. It is affordable for health waste that is created by a vending machine. Experts have estimated that costs will increase by up to billions. The government plays expensive and dangerous games at the expense of public health and the economy. The Left has presented their own model of social welfare reform. We would reduce health inequalities by increasing the integration of services, reducing customer fees and facilitating access to health centres. We are still ready for the joint drafting of legislation by all parties. Mr President! The market model, which is familiar with the government's social welfare reform, is also being embedded in regional employment services. The draft Act on Growth Services will further fragment the whole employment management, but will not solve the problem itself, namely the lack of resources for workers and red tape traps for the unemployed. Law packages for social and regional reform have not yet been received by Parliament. The tasks of the provinces and the principles of the organisation of services have not even been decided yet, but in just over six months' time people should vote in the regional elections. The timetable is totally unrealistic and undemocratic. Mr President! It's not the way to do things in the country. The second point is whether the government will remain united and sufficiently united to implement the reform of social security. Finnish social and health services would already be in order if the government had not made political cow trades in its privatisation rage. It has become clear on whose terms the reform is being prepared. There is a circular door between the Coalition Party and transnational health companies, from which decision-makers are fluently referred to as lobbyists. You have wasted a great deal of time with the pastry, and the sad stomach bill of the family-free reform is not a good indicator of the government's decision-making capacity. When Sipilä's government started, the Prime Minister threatened to set up an open office where the waxing was stopped. A lot of talk, a bit of wool. Due to weak preparations, internal conflicts and the exclusion of experts and opposition, the government has had to withdraw a number of bad proposals. This government has mainly made transfers to the well-earned and has designated cuts to the low-income ones as reforms. The real reforms are apparently left to the next government. Mr President! But now we have to look to the future. Finland has received a lot of positive publicity through its basic income experiment. Testing is a good thing, and the Left believes it is necessary to move forward in the future. The idea of basic income is to free people from bureaucracy, secure livelihoods in a changing world and encourage work and self-development. However, the government's social and employment policies have turned to the past. The continuation of the basic income experiment has been denied and has been replaced by the so-called active model. In the middle of Christmas, the government mutilated the undisciplined unemployment benefit cutter. Fortunately, with the citizens' initiative, Parliament will be able to re-examine the matter. The Left wants to reverse the active model, assemble employment services on a one-stop shop and invest in employment services for the unemployed, facilitate the take-up of work by raising protective parts and further facilitate learning as unemployed. We want to break the quarantines and move from the discipline of the unemployed to the encouragement of the unemployed. Mr President! The economy, too, must look to the future and not to the past. The success of the Finnish economy is not solved by extending the working day and squatting at the employees but by competence and ingenuity. Fortunately, unemployment has gone downhill, but unfortunately so has the Finnish level of education. Education and research cuts undermine the success of the future. These days are the last chance for this Parliament to find sufficient investment in education and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u33	Mr President, värderade talman! What conclusions can be drawn when the last days of the parliamentary term have begun? Finland has 100 years to build an independent welfare state. We have one of the most healthy, prosperous and well-trained populations in the world. We have a relatively stable political system and stable social institutions. All of this is important to our competitiveness, but the most important thing is that we have built this together. We are now living in 2018, and we are facing considerable challenges that are also opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u34	Madam President! We have begun the last full parliamentary days of this parliamentary term. The government only has this year to finish the key reforms. Throughout the parliamentary term, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group has been ready for constructive cooperation and is still there. The government is also required to cooperate if it is to achieve its objectives. With the international economic cycle, our country's economy has started to grow and the employment situation has also improved. However, the government should not be lulled into feeling good, because much work remains to be done. Mr President! The KD parliamentary group is promoting human politics. Sustainable development and people's sustainable well-being is a KD mission. In addition to achieving economic growth and improving employment, the Government must take into account how they can be harnessed to improve sustainable development and people's sustainable well-being. Economic growth is of no use if its benefits are poured into the bottomless plate of big business. The effects of economic growth also hold the benefits of the common people. Regardless of the circumstances, we must not forget the disadvantaged and the poor in society. The position of pensioners, especially pensioners living in poverty, must be improved. We must tackle the human challenges affecting our society, such as loneliness and substance abuse problems. Communityism must be improved, it will have a significant impact on people's well-being. The values of society are reflected in how well we take care of the most vulnerable citizens. At the moment, we cannot say that we treat our old people with the dignity they deserve. Instead of allowing Euthanasia, we decision-makers need to take swift action and finally put old-age services and hospice care in place throughout the country. Children must be placed at the centre of decision-making rather than adults' hopes and ideological decisions. The Christian Democrats wish to defend the primary right of children to father and mother in this Parliament. No change in the law can change the real basis for parenting. We also want to defend the right of families with children to decide for themselves how to care for their children. The cost-neutral care allowance model presented by KD, the toddler bonus, would provide greater flexibility, freedom of choice and would also preserve the possibility of home care. For the unemployed, the best activation is the job. We therefore continue to call on the government to take action to create new jobs, to support entrepreneurship and to improve the level of education. A further step towards small entrepreneurship would be to increase the VAT threshold, which the government should prepare for. In addition, a reform of social security such as KD's encouraging basic security is needed, which would eliminate the traps and make work always worthwhile. Mr President! Social welfare reform is urgently needed to ensure comprehensive and equal social and health services throughout the country. The reform must be carried out in the direction indicated by experts. Sustainable, customer-oriented and long-term savings reform also requires close cooperation with the opposition. The intelligence laws that will come before Parliament next week must be put into effect on a timely basis. Finland cannot opt out of development on the goodwill of intelligence services in other countries. Security authorities need tools to combat terrorism. Clear and comprehensive legislation must define the rights and obligations of public authorities in order to ensure the protection of the privacy of individuals. Mr President! Many citizens are concerned about the development of the European Union. The KD Parliamentary Group requires a comprehensive debate on the development of the EU and the euro during these Parliaments. Citizens have the right to know where the EU is going and where the various parliamentary parties want to take the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u37	Thank you. All the group speeches have now been made, and Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u38	Mr President! Thank you for your contributions. Firstly, there seems to be still a great consensus on foreign and security policy, which is obviously a good thing. During the spring, the most important project is this whole set of intelligence law in Parliament. In EU policy, I recognise the same challenges that have been raised here. However, there is quite a degree of unity about the big picture. The starting point for the government has been that the positions are formed in time and then influenced, so that the same-minded partners are sought. This is what we did, for example, in deepening defence cooperation and what we are doing now in the development of European monetary union. The Christian’s speech left a debt arrangement to be considered — not the taking of a debt arrangement There is by no means an increase in solidarity in the development of EMU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u43	All right, now let's go to the debat, and after a while, then the other ministers will respond as well. But now I ask those representatives who want to use a reply of up to 2 minutes to reserve it by pressing the V button and standing up. And in the traditional way, we start with group speakers. — — — — Congressman Kaikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u44	Mr President! There was regret here that the reform of the family leave had fallen at this point. That's a shame, that's true. Of course, this reform of the family leave is needed, of course, and that is why we need to come back to that issue sooner or later. This should mean the next government programme negotiations, at least that is as far as it goes. But this reform must genuinely improve the status of families, not weaken them. This is a very important starting point, and for us in the centre, the important starting point and perspective is the needs of children and families. That's the right angle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u47	Madam President! I'm not talking about family leave. The time has come for them, for them to be able to find a solution and for them to look back on this too, but we must move forward and seek a solution that is good for families and that emphasises the choice of families and also guarantees the future of children. But I am still talking about the economy, because without a healthy economy we also do not have these benefits for families. The Economic Policy Review Council has sent fresh greetings to the government's fiscal policy being too light and the structural deficit is growing. That is the truth, but in defence, for example, the reduction in the tax burden on labour has been a fully aware solution for the government in this situation. A fully aware solution to support employment development, which has also accelerated the creation of a competitiveness pact — the government played its part in it — and it is now seen that this has been the right choice. The government's economic policy is effective: the economy is growing, employment is increasing. As has been said here, the employment rate is the best for 27 years at present, at its highest, and it shows that this choice has been the right one, that is to say, a reduction in taxation in this situation is the right one. However, this growth will not remove this structural problem of ours within employment. We have groups there, for example the long-term unemployed, who find it very difficult to find employment, and that is why we need to focus on these individual groups, so that their path to working life and better income for the future of their own and their families can also be built. That is what we will work for until the end of this reign. That is what we are committed to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u48	Mr President! When the Government Programme was published, the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the Authority, assessed the Government Programme and stated that this government would destroy the legacy left of the previous government in connection with the development of inequality and increasing income inequalities. [Earl Narcotics ] Today, a report has been published explaining that income inequality has turned to growth, unemployed people, families with children and students have suffered. This is the fact that every year the government has been offered an alternative to correct these unpleasant features of the government's unequal policies. Mr President! It is a very unfortunate thing that this government has now abandoned the process of moving on with the reform of family leave. Equal pay, the right of mothers, fathers to children, the right of children to fathers, the right of mothers to an equal working life would be all those things that could have been taken forward by this family leave system. Now you gave it up. You gave it up because, for ideological reasons, you could not go on developing equality in working life, you could not go on developing those aspects of working life that required correction from the point of view of fathers, mothers and families. You have set up, Prime Minister Sipilä, the Juho Saare task force to consider the problems of inequality and how to eliminate them. That problem, poverty, inequality, cannot be solved without resources. However, here too, you have made it a pre-condition that it should not increase costs. Prime Minister Sipilä, poverty, inequality cannot be combated even in Finnish society without using resources to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u49	Mr President! All I want to tell you about family leave reform is that blue people don't hate housewives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u54	Mr President! The recent government programme in Germany is hard to read for the self-determination of EU Member States. With Britain's EU separation, the decision-making power of Germany and France will become even more important, and federal development will deepen without mercy if it is decided by Germany and France. Unless we here in Finland are working hard against federal development, we will only have a role to play bystander, as power is increasingly concentrated in Brussels. At least until now, the Sipilä government has largely humbled itself towards the federal state in front of leading presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u60	Mr President! As is well known, national economies always run in the international economy. The rise and downturn are not in the hands of national decision-makers alone. Taking honor or finding the guilty is not a responsible thing to say in the face of cyclical fluctuations. Mr President! All too often, the debate on economic policy is reduced to a debate on whether expenditure should be reduced, taxes increased or more debt taken. These are key issues, but where is the debate on the use of the euro within the budget and the economic framework? In the state budget, every euro is always a value choice. The Greens' choice of values was to spend half a billion euros more on education and over EUR 640 million more on poverty reduction. This could have been done without taking any more debt than the government does. Indeed, there would be a need for the green option as inequalities in education increase and poverty among the low-income. Indeed, an example of this is the results of a recent survey by SOST, which shows that income differentials have turned to growth and that unemployed people, families with children and students are suffering from government policy. One quote from this report: ‘If Finland wants to make a genuine stop at increasing the difference in value in the long term,we do not have a policy My question is, Prime Minister Sipilä: What is the government's will? There are two options: Continuation of the policy of the Sipilä Government or a clear change of direction. If the government understands the seriousness of the situation, what kind of measures are you prepared to take in terms of taxation and low income benefits? Are you prepared to eliminate index freezes in basic security benefits and compensate for previous cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u61	Mr President! Sometimes it costs to promote equality, but it also pays for itself. Gender equality is one of Finland's strengths and prides. It is very sad, therefore, that the reform of family leave was on a stomach bill. Family leave reform is needed to strengthen male paternity and improve the labour market position of women and to make the system more flexible, given the diversity of families and needs. A proper family leave reform will cost money, and it will pay. The Left hopes that the reform of family leave will finally be carried out and an adequate budget allocated to it. We are proposing the implementation of the reform in accordance with the 6+6+6 model, which increases the family leave months allocated to fathers and the flexibility within families, without cutting the potential months for the mother. Mr President! In his inaugural address, the President of the Republic raised climate change as a question of the fate of mankind. Climate change is indeed the greatest challenge of our time, and Parliament must take climate emissions into account in all decision-making. There is not much time, and now we have to move from words to deeds at the latest, so that the future will be bright for our children too. I therefore hope that the assessment of the climate impact of legislation, budget and all decisions will be stepped up and that the reduction of emissions will be taken as a guiding aspect of all decision-making in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u62	Irade the Talman! Det är verkligt sorgligt att famileledighetsreformen nu inte blir av. Det är ett sorgligt kapritel i den rauta regeringens history. Barnen och fabillionna hade faktiskt förtjäna mycket battre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u63	Mr President! An important starting point for the social welfare reform is to ensure timely, equal social and health care services throughout Finland for everyone in need. Flexible care paths and good unbroken cooperation between primary health care, social services and specialised care must be put into practice. For all of this, sufficient resources will also be needed during the transformation process. The change must be made in a controlled manner. I would like to ask the ministers: how does the government ensure that the change is carried out in a controlled manner, and how does the government also ensure sufficient resources during the transformation process? With regard to the reform of family leave, the KD has presented a cost-neutral care model, a toddler bonus, which would increase flexibility, increase freedom of choice and also maintain the possibility of home care. And I'm going to ask you: Could the government still consider implementing this model? It's cost-neutral. With regard to the disadvantaged and the poor, how does the government intend to act in order to improve the position of the disadvantaged and to eliminate poverty in Finland? And for jobs and an active model. A job is the best activation for an unemployed person. With regard to the active model, I would like to ask: is the job seeker's ability to work and his health and the situation of his family sufficiently individual and comprehensively when assessing the required active measures and opportunities to participate in them?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u64	Then let us move on to the one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u65	Mr President! If one word is to be summed up by the success of Finnish society, it is ‘trust’,the confidence that every generation of decision-makers want to be better for future generations. Children have the future of Finland, and for children, a good Finland requires a family-friendly policy, and a more equal working life requires action on the part of decision-makers, especially those that are now needed to reform family leave. Finland has the lowest and most rigid family leave system in the Nordic countries, and now it would have been possible to renew the family leave for Finnish families in the 21st century. But this government is unable to do so. The conclusion is clear, Mr President, on this basis of government, it will not be possible to reform Finnish family leave for the 21st century. It requires other decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u66	Mr President! Although family leave is in need of reform, it is good that we have not taken the line that society should decide for the family who is allowed to be at home because it is communism. The problems of monetary union will not be solved by making new commerves, making new systems to replace the problems of monetary union. And we know that we really have two options: either a federal state or monetary union. This is the opinion of economists. It is intellectual dishonesty to claim that monetary union, a monetary union, could operate without a federal state. We must decide whether we want to be on the euro train or whether we want to jump out of it. We cannot have a policy that misleads voters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u67	Madam President! The Prime Minister's speech mentioned the reform of the education system as a whole and stressed the need to increase the employment rate. These are certainly objectives that we all share and that are important. We know that we need to invest heavily in education if we are to survive the transformation of work and the global transformation that will come when robots and digitalisation become part of working life. We need a society that is teaching, encouraging and cutting red tape for life, which at the same time combines employment policy with education policy. However, in recent times this has not been done. Training reforms seem to be coughing up, and at the same time, unfortunately, inequalities in education are still growing. These are not isolated islands; they are linked. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise that if we want to make it possible for an enabling society to dismantle incentive traps, for example through a basic income experiment, it is absolutely absurd at the same time to build instruments such as an active model that give a stick when we should be making long-term more sustainable decisions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u68	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you implied that the opposition would agree that there are no structural problems in Finland. But the opposite is true: the opposition is currently concerned about the failure of the government to carry out structural reforms. The reform of business subsidies did not succeed, but was transferred to Parliament and probably to the next government, the reform of family leave will be transferred to the next government, and the overall reform of social security will be transferred to the next government. On the contrary, this period has seen an increase in the bureaucracy of unemployment security. The Sote reform needed to increase integration and curb cost development. Instead, the government is now bringing about a reform that will reduce integration and increase costs. Unfortunately, at the moment, it seems that this government is going to be thinking mainly of the norm of parking discs and getting four-packed beer in grocery stores.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u69	Mr President! There was talk of life after Brexit and what happens when Britain's empty seats in the European Parliament are redistributed and partly put on the shelf to wait for the new Member States. The Prime Minister gave the impression that Finland is in principle opposed to the allocation of additional seats, but if they do, they will be welcomed with pleasure. So are we for or against? Every additional Finnish MEP gives more influence, more lobbying for matters that are important for Finland. Do we want less Europe? And Mr Terho, the European Minister, wants to abolish the Committee of the Regions. So, with less Europe, you get more Europe — or does Finland want less Europe? What's the line, yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u70	Mr President! Here the opposition parties, the SDP, the Greens, the Left Alliance and the RKP have condemned the overthrow of the reform of family leave. For my part, I would like to thank the government for burying a failed model that increases the cost of public finances. Last season, the Christian Democrats knocked down a large number of attempts in the government to cut home care support and thus free families from choice and the right of small children to the arms of a mother or father. This period was done by Minister Saarikko. Thank you for that. It is therefore quite contradictory that, in order to promote equality, a model was set up which would actually have cut women's income and, at the same time, women's right to family leave. We have now heard speeches that indicate that home care support will continue to be in the line of fire in the future, and I therefore hope that there will be someone ready to defend home care support in the next government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u71	I will give three more replies — representatives of Heinäluoma, Kankaanniemi and Niinistö Ville — and then a couple of ministers will reply, and then we will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u72	Mr President! When the government came, apparently for the first time in the history of Finland, the Minister for the Family, I thought that now is the time for the event, and that is why I must say that the finger of amazement went into the mouth of the amazement when the government, under the leadership of the Minister for the Family, announced that nothing was done about family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u73	Madam President! Mr Prime Minister, are you going to submit a government communication to Parliament on EU policy, on euro policy, on Brexit and on the huge change that is taking place very quickly in the European Union, for example, if the German Government is formed on this basis, what is it now? It would be important for Parliament as a whole to hold a debate on the basis of the communication and to vote on this matter. We would see these EU positions and policies. My second question is: how do you intend to act on the results of the Juho Saare task force? Are you going to bring to Parliament in the autumn proposals on this, which would mean recognition of exclusion and poverty and measures on this basis? In addition, we have a transport team and a business support team, and I expect that they will also produce results for Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u74	Mr President! The contradiction between what this government has said and what it has done is flagrant. Here, too, the Prime Minister talked about reforms, but if you look at the government's actions, this government is doing a short-sighted cutting policy, which fails to make real reforms, but reduces the level of environmental protection, does not promote equality between women and many important inclusion-enhancing reforms are not done, but cuts are being made to basic security. [ Intermediate calls from the Centre Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u75	All the ministers have asked for the floor, but we will also take them now for just a few minutes, namely Mr Terho, Mr Vehviläinen and Mr Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u76	Mr President! I will address these EU issues in the first place. Of course, Finland follows its own national interest, which also reads very clearly in our government programme. So we are not in favour of more solidarity. In EMU or in the Banking Union, the fact that risks are not taken into account at the same time as the system is being developed. It would simply be unfair for us to take risks on behalf of others in the solidarity mechanisms which they themselves have already taken in the past. In other words, there is no clear, logical reason to argue, as came out of this Chamber on the one hand, that solidarity always increases at the same rate as we agree to be in the monetary union at all. It is very important here to follow a line of national interest and to be active and not just to declare resistance to everything. So I ask about this particular comment made by Huhtasaari: Did you mean that we should separate from the euro? That means, by means of current regulation, that we should also resign from the EU, as your President has, of course, stated your party's objective. [Laura Huhtasaari’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u77	Mr President! I will come back to the very same point as Minister Terho. It is true that this government cannot be blamed for the fact that we are not constantly in the hands of reforms. We have the biggest reform in history, the social and regional reform, and I will correct that more than 40 laws are already here in Parliament and the Freedom of Choice Act will be here in a couple of weeks. But why do I particularly want to say here and on what point, so I would like to say about this when it was said that there was no reform on the social security and taxation side: There is one very concrete big issue that will improve the coordination of labour income, social security and taxation, and that is the national income register.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u80	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u81	Mr President! Many groups were concerned about climate change, and that is why they should be concerned about it. That is why Finland has been strongly involved in the construction of the EU climate package for 2030. We're in the vanguard, too. We are preparing for the closure of coal in energy production by 2030 at the latest. The use of imported oil is halved, transport emissions are halved at the same time and the share of renewable energy is raised to more than 50%. Finland has shown direction not only in the EU but also more widely in international climate policy, and in fact Finland's position in international climate policy has never been as strong as it is now. We were an important factor in the establishment of the "Detached Coal" coalition in Bonn last autumn. We have made Finland a pioneer in the circular economy. The objective of carbon neutrality for 2045 in accordance with the Paris Agreement — Finland and Sweden have had the courage to set this. This means that we are putting so much pressure on emissions that our strong carbon sinks will be able to absorb an equivalent amount of carbon dioxide. Advancement is not only in the interests of the environment and the climate, but also in the interests of Finnish companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u84	Then a few minutes of reply again, and then again the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u85	Mr President! “Reform ” is a positive word. It means something new, a better future. In the language of this government, especially in the case of cuts in education — especially in the case of cuts in education — ‘reform’ is of great importance. In itsword content practice,‘deductions in expenditure, cutbacks,off’. This is the content of the policy of this government. The reform turns into cuts, negative words. The government has confused the balance between public finances and reforms. The action of this government has led to an increase in inequality. As today's study states, poor people in Finnish society are the contributors to this government policy. It is great that the economy is growing, it is great that employment is increasing. But, Mr President-in-Office, growth belongs to everyone. Change the course of your policy, give value to these people who are currently operating under very poor conditions in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u86	Mr President! Reductions in basic security and education are justified by the need for financial discipline. But have you noticed that your financial discipline is very selective? Where is financial discipline when it comes to tax and corporate subsidies, billions of dollars? Where is this economic discipline when it comes to social reform and growing spending? Where is your financial discipline when it comes to tax policy, such as entrepreneurship reduction, forest gift reduction, inheritance and gift tax, or general tax reductions that benefit the most high-income people in euros? Where is this financial discipline, let us talk about these questions? Should we not first give to those, including the low-paid women-dominated sectors in the public sector, first of all, and to education and training? This is a value policy, and within the budget every single euro is always a value choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u87	Madam President! A new intelligence law is certainly needed in Finland. However, it is now being driven through in a hurry, as it were, as a follow-up to this unfortunate Islamist terrorist act in Turku. I therefore find it a little strange that we should now try to rush into something that would have been going on since 2015. The Government has an excellent immigration policy programme and an additional protocol to paragraph 80 at the end of 2015. Complete those records and we will fight terrorism even better than this necessary intelligence law itself. On this point, I would like to ask the ministers about the timetable within which these are being implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u88	Madam President! Before the last election, Juha Sipilä, the president of the city centre, said: “Corporate-free benefits. “ The chairman of the Finns Party Timo Soini made it even better. He said: ‘There are a million people living in Finland who live at around 1000 euro. They can't, can't and can't afford to cut." But when the government began its work, only the downtown people, every single representative of parliament, and the basic Finns, every single representative of parliament, accepted the cuts to social security. Today there has been a survey of social and health professionals, according to which the livelihood of families with children with low incomes in particular has deteriorated. In addition to cutting pensions and unemployment security, the taxation of social benefits has also been tightened and housing allowance has been reduced. This is not a reform, Prime Minister, it is a flagrant betrayal of promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u90	Let us take two more minutes and then the ministers will reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u91	Madam President! Employment is improving almost at an historic rate. Tens of thousands of families have come up this way
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u95	Mr President! If the Social Democratic Party of Finland were to be summed up in one word, that would be ‘no ’ — no, no, no-SDP. That's what it's been for two years now, isn't it? [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u96	Now again three ministers, although more has been asked for, but we are always doing such categories, that is to say Grahn-Laasonen, Soini and Lindström. — Minister Grahn-Laasonen, 2 minutes. I can also give the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u97	Mr President! I fully agree with the opposition on Valentine's Day that action is needed to promote equality and that the families also expect it from us. That is why, as Minister of Responsibility, I will do everything in my power to ensure that early childhood education in Finland is developed with a strong emphasis on educational equality. The new law on early childhood education is intended to be passed on to Parliament during this spring period, with particular emphasis on the quality of early childhood education and on investing in personnel. At the same time, important reforms in education are also being prepared this spring. It can be said that last year was also a turning point in the education sector. These unfortunate savings decisions were left behind, Finland's economy is growing, employment is developing positively, and we bring numerous reforms to develop education in Finland. One important reform is the reform of high school. The aim is to strengthen the quality of education, learning outcomes, a smooth transition to higher education. It's a remarkable, big whole for this spring. This growth in the economy has also brought the situation to life that there is a serious shortage of experts. Companies will be communicating, working life will be communicating, and it will also tell us about a strong technological change, investing in the future, and it will require us to invest in education and training from the point of view of its lifelong learning. We are currently looking for solutions with universities to create lifelong learning models, i.e. continuous learning, continuing training, conversion training also in higher education. In the big picture, it must also be said that in this situation, where employment is improving and the economy is growing in Finland, it is also the best way to combat inequality. The more people get to work, the more families get to improve their positions in society and their livelihoods improve, and the government also supports these by reducing early childhood education fees from the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u98	Secretary Soini, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u99	Mr President! With regard to this question of intelligence law, I would have liked Mr Eerola to have stayed to hear the answer. Mr Savio spoke in a sensible, constructive manner on this issue, but I believe that Mr Eerola spoke in a completely different way. So how do you feel about this? This need for intelligence laws is absolutely absolute and this agreement should be brought into force quickly so that we can effectively prevent threats. This is the urgency that is justified. For the rule of law to become a reality, we must have clear legislation that improves the conditions for decision-making. It must be proportionate, limited to what is necessary and must have parliamentary control as an important element. This is a very important issue and there is no room for party politics here. I hope that the SDP in particular understands its responsibilities here. You are on the temple brush to see if this can be carried through as a matter of urgency. Of course, it is clear that international obligations, including human rights obligations, are adhered to as a result of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. This is a serious matter, and I would like this to be taken through. All I'm saying about home care support is that thank you to all Finnish housewives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u100	Then again, Minister Lindström, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u101	Madam President! First of all, happy Valentine's Day to everyone. So today we are discussing the Government's policy in 2018. The Prime Minister made an excellent speech, and I would like to raise a point which has not been much of an issue in this debate. He mentioned the problem of tackling the structure of unemployment and a report on it. We have a situation where we are approaching the limits of structural unemployment, that is to say, the hard core of unemployment, and the government has taken this to the real task of this debate, which we are about to have, what should be done about it. First of all, we have people in the wrong places, in the wrong procedures. The same measures that we are using to deal with these so-called easily employed people and the same measures that are used for them cannot solve this problem. This means that these people must be put into the right measures, whether they are more social policy than labour market policy. We need to figure this out. We need to do that. We in TEM are also prepared to do so in the form of a civil service report for us. This structural unemployment — we are therefore faced with limits, and the big question is when we are talking about this year's policy and the policy of the following years: the employment rate of 72% already requires very tough measures. If we all agree on the need to reach 75 and above, the Nordic level, I would like to hear from everyone how it will be done without us interfering in these structures, to which Mrs Aalto referred in her speech. He said that the challenges were in place and that the labour market would be reformed. If the active model and the kiky agreement get the people to the market, what will happen if we start reforming these structures? We have to do this together. We must be able to tell everyone how this is going to happen, and I think this is the biggest challenge for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u102	Then let us go back to the list of speakers and the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u103	Madam President! You say, government, that work is the best social security. That is true, but at the same time you forget that there are 500,000 people working in Finland below the poverty line. Unfortunately, not all work, shredded work, temporary work and so on will help the family make a living. In Finland, we have almost one fifth of the 20 to 24-year-olds without secondary education. This is what we in the SDP have offered as an alternative to genuinely correct, free secondary education by extending compulsory education. Are you prepared to act in this way so that we do not have almost every fifth person between 20 and 24 years of age without training and the opportunity it brings to work? Prime Minister Sipilä, you say that we must prevent the emergence of new cracks. You referred to history there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u104	Mr President! Government and Minister Mr Tiilikainen likes to praise the government's environmentally sound and responsible actions, but there is one objective, apparently undeclared, which seems to be taking the opposite direction in the legislative reforms. Regional reform and its preparation are on the move, and one part of the reform concerns regional environmental authorities, licensing and control, which are now run by regional government agencies and ely centres. There is a new licensing and control agency Creative, but now it seems that the new agency law is becoming environmentally harmful and contrary to the basic principles of the legal system. Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Tiilikainen, why has the independent control unit of public interest and environmental interests been quietly removed from the draft law during the parliamentary recess? The first draft law proposed the establishment of this independent control unit within the Agency, thus guaranteeing public interest control and the right of appeal by public authorities, which, among other things, have been considered necessary by the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u105	Madam President! For three years it has indeed been said that everything has gone to the wall and that none of the objectives that the government has set are progressing. It is now noted that yes, targets are being achieved: the employment rate has risen [Quick Five] to the highest of 27 years,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u106	Mr President! It is a pity that the reform of family leave, which is important to fathers, mothers and children in Finland, will not be carried out by this government. However, it is necessary to facilitate the everyday lives of families, to create better conditions for equal parents and to improve women's career opportunities. The Coalition Party has committed itself to bringing the reform to the end at the latest through the next Government Programme. Last year, the Coalition Party has presented its own model for the reform of family leave, which addresses the weaknesses of the current system, increases flexibility in the everyday lives of families and also fosters freedom of choice. However, I wonder whether the government is now going to adopt some kind of preparatory action to ensure that the reform is carried out smoothly after the elections, or whether it is possible to promote this in parliamentary terms, because social support in the parliamentary parties
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u107	Mr President! The proposals have been referred to as ‘not ‘oppositionto act in this Chamber’,andthere is also a reason why this government’s policy is being implemented in a number of They are weakening the position of people. The freezing of basic security indices is not a reform of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u110	Mr President! Everyone welcomes the fact that employment is increasing and the economy is growing. Everyone thinks it's very good. There is little point in arguing about when this started. We know from the statistics how it has actually happened. But it is now a question of reversing the inequalities: an unemployed person who has lost thousands of euros on an annual basis by this government — a hundred days after the cut in unemployment security and now this new active model — a student who has lost hundreds of euros by this government through cuts, a pensioner who has lost hundreds of euros through cuts in this government does not feel that these cuts are fair, and this is the direction of policy we have called for to be corrected. Congressman Elo, I want to tell you that you are such a yes-yes team.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u111	And now, Mr Adlercreutz. Then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u112	Irade the Talman! Mr Kaikonen said that the reform of the family leave would have been an operation because, for some, aid would have fallen if nothing in the family did not change. But we want change, don't we? Even for the active model, it was thought that the reform would change the operating model. Why does this logic not apply to the reform of family leave? Well, it fell. Instead, the regional reform seems to be moving forward. A reform that no one wants except the centre. A reform that few people support, and they too, apparently because they have not dared to open their eyes to the reality that the reform brings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u115	Then the ministers have asked, and let us take three more ministers: Saarikko, Häkkänen and Terho, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u116	Mr President! As a member of the government responsible for family affairs, I am delighted at the enormous willingness to debate and exchange of ideas and the thought of a better future for families that has been heard here today across party boundaries in the debate. It is good for Finland and its future, especially when we look at the low birth rate statistics that show that there are now 10,000 fewer children born in Finland than eight years ago. It tells us of some uncertainty and a number of factors that we should be interested in. Mr Vikman asked what it would be possible to do in favour of family leave during this parliamentary term. I think it is justified and good that all the material that is now being made public about this complex and advanced preparation could serve as a good basis for clarifying the parties' own views and also for clarifying how this complex reform could genuinely be financed so that the result would be better for families. I also welcome the fact that we could move forward quickly on issues that would qualitatively support and improve the employment of mothers, mothers who may have a low level of education, little work history and many years away from working life at home, caring for children. These measures can also have a great deal of impact, including from the point of view of the much talked about employment. I fully agree with Mr Grahn-Laasonen that the increased level of employment is one of the best ways to combat the risks of low income and poverty in families with children. There has also been a lot of disregard for basic security and the weakenings and claims made about it. There are a few things on the list that bear witness to another: the single parent's increase in child benefit improved, the guarantee pension increased, the guardian's increase in the student allowance was returned to the benefit, the maternity allowance increased, the minimum daily allowance increased, and so on. The income support, the lowest income, was not cut from anyone. Mr President! I would also like to say here and from Mrs Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u117	Mr President! An extremely important debate on how certain items of expenditure are to be distributed, but with the same energy, of course, should focus on where more and more items of income will be generated in the future. Where there is more growth and entrepreneurship and all that — that is not going to happen so much in this debate. When additional expenditure items are presented, it should also be possible to feed growth with new ideas. Where it would be good to find a broad common understanding during this spring after a lively and analytical debate is the intelligence laws. It is a multidimensional project which is extremely difficult for citizens to understand what it is about, and it is essentially linked to a foreign and security policy in itself, but also to a new approach to internal security. Since this is a very complex and very important issue for the nation, I hope that the good spirit that has already prevailed here and in the public debate will be further deepened this spring when this debate begins in Parliament. This is too important a project to be misunderstood, for example among citizens. Even because of the core principles of the rule of law, it is important that no one in Finland misconstrues this project, for example, as urinals or something else, but that we have a balanced, moderate debate, and once the Constitution is amended, so too will the constitutional change be treated with all respect for it, but also with necessity and necessity. In other words, when we discuss this matter, we will remember an extremely large threshold for changing the Constitution, but at the same time the seriousness of this situation. I was just visiting the Minister of Justice in China, where you can see very well that when the rule of law is more or less abolished, the debate
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u118	And Secretary Terho, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u119	Mr President! At this stage of the debate, it is also good to bear in mind the whole issue to which all this criticism must be addressed. The whole thing works, doesn't it? We have a lot of details. If we take the idea of an engine that is currently rolling well forward, the opposition will be happy to talk about a nut in which they suspect there is a problem with that engine. But they are not talking about the engine that works, which drives this country forward, so that the economy is growing, employment is rising, and it is the ordinary person's life that gets better. Rinne talked and asked this question: What has the unemployed received, what has he lost? More and more unemployed people have lost their unemployment, they have got a job. I guess that's our common goal, and that's how well-being grows.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u129	Straight answer, Congressman Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u130	Mr President! 16 May 2017: ‘SampoTerho, Minister for Europe: A referendum on EU membership shall be held at I would like to ask Minister Terho: at what point? We are in favour of a Europe of independent states and independent states. Let's see if we still have a value base here. In Finland, I found a policy on asylum in the Nordic countries. Prime Minister Sipilä praised the 80-seat asylum policy programme of the Finns, which means that the common value base has been restored. I would therefore like to ask where the implementation of this programme is at the moment. In Sweden, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi has said that illegals out of the country, a welfare state cannot act as a welfare state if people cannot be turned from the border. At the same time, Denmark is pursuing this same line. Are you going to follow a European line — or even a Nordic line?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u131	Madam President! Yes, the actions of the government speak for themselves. The economy is growing, and in the last year 75,000 jobs, that is a lot. This is the growth in Finland as a whole. Come on, let's come to my own neighborhood. In the neighbourhood of Alajärvi, EUR 120 million invested in the last year in the wood industry, the metal industry, the processing of these, jobs are constantly increasing. At the bottom of the second neighbour, the outlook is good: the wood processing industry, the metal industry are invested, the trade side is invested. Similarly, there is now a lot of investment in my homeowner, trust in the future and employment. This is a good policy across the board, and it has led to an improvement in employment across the board. People have better access to work, they catch up with the job, and that is how this inequality will be reduced. But jobs and the unemployed must be met, just as Mr Lindström said, and work must be done on this in particular. The responsibility for combating unemployment lies with us all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u132	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about 75,000 jobs, but it is good to understand that they have not fallen from the sky as a manna but are the result of a coherent policy. This isn't astronomy. The essential thing is that someone should hire someone and someone should take the job, and during this government, both the profitability of the work has been consistently improved and the profitability of the work has been improved, and the result is that 75,000 people and many families are now doing better. Just as Minister Lindström says, it is extremely important that this same line should continue, even though there is a slight increase in noise, but it is extremely important that we continue, because if, in this employment situation, we do not get the hundreds of thousands who are still unemployed back to work, then we will make an incalculable mistake — and above all, for these people, because there is a very high risk that they will be excluded from this society. It is our responsibility now to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u133	Mr President! Referring to what Mr Terho said, it would probably be appropriate for the government to decide whether or not the government is responsible for the Competitiveness Pact, as there will be some conflicting information depending on the debate and the day. As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, as I said, the competitiveness pact itself did not change any structure in the Finnish labour market, but it was a traditional income transfer agreement that reduced employees' salaries and transferred money to employers. To this end, the government was prepared to use public funds, to cover the resulting loss of revenue for public finances, and at the same time has reduced funding for product development, research, innovation and education. Minister Terho, is this a recipe for a country such as Finland to cope with international competition and competitiveness in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u134	President! When all the signs suggest that we are moving in a better direction, even better than the government itself believed in when it started its work after the 2015 elections, the opposition will now continue to shoot with this acre gun. Let us shoot at everything that moves, and let us not dare to acknowledge that we are on a strong, hopeful line towards the future. Let us be satisfied with this kind of criticism, not constructive but very upbuilding, which criticises it without offering constructive alternatives. The opposition is therefore acting on its own initiative. It seems that we do not have an opposition but have a supply opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u135	Mr President! I agree with what the Prime Minister said: that the employment rate of 72% is only an intermediate objective. And when Minister Lindström went through these that major structural reforms are needed, what are the two biggest questions? The weaker position of young women in the labour market, which is reflected throughout their careers, and the marginalisation of young men, the lack of education and training. And now to this first position of young women, you can say when I listen to this debate that this government has given its evidence to Finnish families. On this government basis, family leave cannot be renewed into the 21st century. A more flexible model is needed, but this government base is not capable of doing so, and the government has not had the desire to secure free secondary education for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u138	Mr President! Of those young people whose financial aid has been reduced, and of those university researchers who have lost control of the research group because of government cuts, of those low-income unemployed who have been cut off or of sick pensioners who have more difficulty paying the cost of their illness when their incomes have been reduced, it is certainly a bit harsh for them, and it may be hard for them to listen to the government's explanations that government policy has been correct. As if employment had risen because you have punished people on low incomes and cut off education. These things have nothing to do with each other. Government policy has been unequal, and what you have done wrong is that you have cut off from the future. You have cut back on the economic growth that Finland will have in 10 years or 20 years. You have cut off the opportunity for young generations to be involved in working life in 10 to 15 years' time. The price for children of the unemployed not to receive full-time day care is reflected in the labour market and in people's daily lives after a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u139	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Lindström, in my own group speech I spoke of trust. This is an extremely important issue when work life reforms are being built and changes are being made in working life. If you look at the role of the social partners in this past few years, you have to say that we have been able to make a pension decision, we have been able to make moderate overall solutions, wage solutions that have helped the Finnish economy in the right direction and achieved stability and predictability in the economy, which has also created the investment climate. I was now concerned, Minister Lindström, about your speech, when you said just now that you saw that because of the kiky deal... — well, it was not a kiky agreement, which was why the crowd marched into the squares, but it was this coercion package that the government was driving. Then came this active model. You have just said that what happens when big reforms are brought in. Are you really saying there's going to be something that really blows up these labour markets in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u140	Madam President! Unemployment is the worst problem in the welfare society and in man. It is good that the measures taken during this parliamentary term are being dismantled and that employment is increasing. New jobs are the best cure for poverty. The government must eradicate all the weeds, all the stones must be turned in order to create more work for Finland. That is why it was very unfortunate that the reform of family leave fell. It would have been one way of promoting the position of women in the labour market, promoting the employment of young women, of course, also bringing flexibility to families, improving the everyday lives of families. When that work was cut off quite in the middle, the impact assessments were still being carried out, would it be possible, as has been suggested in the Group of the European People's Party, to set up a parliamentary working party,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u143	The Prime Minister has asked to intervene, and then we will continue the debate for a moment, after which two ministers have asked for three minutes: Saarikko and Grahn-Laasonen, but now the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u144	Madam President! There's been a lot of talk here about income differentials. The latest statistics are from 2016 and compare the growth of income differentials between 2015 and 2016, and its results are: Income differentials remained almost unchanged in 2016 compared to the previous year. Real income grew in all income deciles but among middle-income earners more than those on high and low incomes. The income level of the lowest income decile of the population grew by 0.7 per cent in real terms and that of the highest income decile by 0.3 per cent. In 2016, the Gini coefficient used to measure this increase in income differentials received a value of 27.2, which was 0.1 percentage points lower than in the previous year, i.e. an increase in income differentials decreased in 2016. I think this conversation, when it comes to this, sounds a little different. Economic growth typically increases income differentials, and we will certainly also see as a result of economic growth. Well, this increase in employment is now increasingly hampered by the availability of labour. The reduction of structural unemployment in the same way is highlighted, and Mr Lindström, the Minister of Labour, well explained the way in which this structure of unemployment is being addressed. For example, the role of the third sector in this rehabilitation work needs to be assessed in a completely new way. Then we also have the challenge of retraining a million Finns over the next ten years. Under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, the Ministry of Education is now well prepared for this major challenge of the next decade. Representative Aalto, the government has done more for climate change than governments have done for a long time. Reforms have been made to transport, digitalisation, social and health care, the disposal of coal, the abandonment of oil, the halving of transport emissions. It is true that it has been cut — and it is difficult at the same time to develop and cut, renew and cut, but this government has been able to do it, although these two things here are talentedly mixed all the time. Mr Niinistö, you have said many times in this Chamber that employment is not increasing, that the government is not achieving employment and economic objectives. That's not what happened. Mr Heinäluoma has left, but Mr Heinäluoma has forgotten that the previous government voted against all its own proposals in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u147	Mr President! In following this debate, I have been amazed at two things: First of all, we have heard opposition from the demars in all directions. The election programme of Antti Rinte's party, the demars, had cuts of EUR 3 billion and tax increases of EUR 1 billion. When will you, President-in-Office of the Demari, present your list of operations? With interest, I look forward to it. You're criticizing other people's surgeries, but you're forgetting yours. I hope that this will improve. And another thing I need improvement on: May Aalto here has taught us environmental policy and what. When I walked past the new main library on this one night, there was a sign on the wall that ‘Oodion gift to 100-year-old Finland’ —a very special gift,thanks —but when I came to the House of the State and opened up the Helsingin Sanomat,in the clear Finnish language,that Helsinki’s city stone year was a new record for the burning of coal. Was this the gift of the Greens to 100-year-old Finland, a record of coal burning in Finland's centenary year when Finland turned 100?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u150	Mr President! It is good that the economy is growing, but when we look at the end of the year, we know that we are going downhill. So our debt burden continues to increase. The biggest and most important reform is the reform of social security. The social reform should be fair, it should be fair, and the government has also started to make some 3 billion savings over time. How, Mr President-in-Office, has this EUR 3 billion been calculated? At least I have not yet been shown any financial evidence to show that this can be achieved. On the contrary, it seems that we are about to have a rather unfair reform, and at the moment the on-call reform that has now entered into force at the turn of this year has led to people being subjected to more and more long-distance cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u151	Madam President! There are many indications that nausea is increasing: the number of clients in child welfare has increased, the poverty of families with children has increased and the mental disorders of children have increased. According to a recent study, a major reason for exclusion is that under 29-year-olds who do not have any other education in addition to comprehensive school are at very high risk of exclusion. Nevertheless, you have just cut out a great deal of education — vocational training, universities, at all levels, science and research, which would bring Finland new opportunities for growth. I would like to ask the government: what are you doing to ensure education for young people and young adults who would carry them into the future, offer them opportunities and jobs? You yourself, Prime Minister, referred to this problem of encounters. Is it not now time to invest in education and receive at least secondary education for all?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u152	Madam President! It takes confidence to reform society, and this result, announced this morning in the Helsingin Sanomat by SOSTE, that inequality... [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u153	Mr President! Firstly, there will be an even wider debate on this intelligence law. For that reason too, I would caution and advise against focusing too much on this constitutional change and its urgency, because there are other issues involved, such as the fact that much of the need for intelligence is due to the failure of this and previous governments in immigration policy, which is also a question that needs to be resolved. Secondly, it is quite right to oppose the inadequacies of the active model, but I wonder how, at the same time, it is possible to support this reform of family leave. How, in the Green Left's view, can the picking and punishing of people work in one place and in the Green Left it does not work in the other? How do you explain this logical flaw?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u154	Mr President! Structural unemployment is a real problem, as Minister Lindström has said here. But an active model does not help if people are partially incapacitated or their skills do not meet the needs of the labour market. Thus, in order to overcome structural unemployment, rehabilitation, social and health care services for unemployed people in need of them, retraining, continuing training, courses, pay support work and personal job search services are a priority. They are the real means of solving structural and long-term unemployment, not sticking, not an active model. Mr President! The government cannot endlessly appeal to the work of the Juho Saare Group on Inequality and, on that pretext, postpone the real measures to reduce poverty. You have in your hands the keys to the solution. Indeed, according to today's report, basic security benefits have deteriorated by tens of euros. This is a choice of values, because at the same time high incomes have been subject to tax reductions. Mr President! There's still time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u155	Mr President! The fact that the economy has grown is true, but unfortunately it is also true, Prime Minister, that income differentials have turned into growth. You said earlier that this was not the case, but a new study showed that until 2015 income differentials really narrowed, but since then income differentials have started to grow. They are the result of index cuts and are the result of cuts made to unemployment benefit in the position of families with children and students. This is a bit of a matter for the unemployed, for example, to be able to help if taxation is also considered on the municipal tax side. According to the calculations, its price would be 200 million if the level of taxation of the unemployed and other beneficiaries of social benefits were to be reduced to the level of taxation of others. They have a much higher rate of taxation than others. Structural tax reform, therefore,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u156	Let us take two more speeches, and then there is the Prime Minister and then the two ministers who have asked to speak. — Mr Kalli and Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u157	Thank you, Mr President. In less than 30 years, when I've been here, I've never heard such rags from the government before: in the last quarter, employment is growing, growth is just under 4%, new jobs are created, predictability is the Finnish record class, trust is good. All of this has required a government in its government programme [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u158	Mr President! Of course, we have been talking about this development of inequality almost to the point of fatigue, and I do not think it was a coincidence that the Prime Minister himself had one sentence in his speech, which covered this exclusion, and it also referred to Professor Saari's presentation. This is an extremely serious issue. It is a question of social, economic and cultural inequalities. And here, Mr Mäkinen, who represents the umbrella organisations in the social and health sector, says in his cannarines that income differentials did not increase until 2016, but the survey has shown that there has been a turn in the direction of inequality. I now hope that the Prime Minister will catch up with that speech by the President of the Centre, Mr Kaikonen, in which, however, he flashed that there is still a sense of conscience in the centre that he should be able to
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u159	Three ministers: Prime Minister Grahn-Laasonen and Minister Saarikko, for all 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u160	Mr President! Representative Tolppanen, Statistics Finland's total statistics on revenue and expenditure indicate that in 2016 the income differentials decreased, did not increase. In the decile of low-income earners, the income level increased by 0.7 per cent in real terms and by 0.3 per cent in the decile of high-income earners. The Gini coefficient decreased by 0.1 percentage points from the previous year. This Gini factor has risen by about 5 percentage points compared to 1995, most of which occurred in the late 1990s, when income differentials were torn, that the facts here should be based on what is being said in this Chamber. But I would like to thank you for my part for the constructive debate, and especially now we are working on this structure of unemployment, under the leadership of Minister Lindström, and also on the great challenge of education that we have in the 2020s, when one million people are re-educated over the next ten years, especially because of artificial intelligence and other new issues and new challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u161	Then Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u162	Mr President! It is easy to continue with this, and it also warms the mind on the wide understanding of the importance of education and knowledge in this Chamber, and it has been well discussed, [Ville Niinistö’s interlude] What was the situation when this reign began: except that it was very gloomy in terms of the economy, so after the previous government, the educational reforms also fell then in the last week, and they remained, as it were, all in their arms and did not do so at that point. It has taken quite a lot of work to get to the point where, in practice, during this government, we are going to reform the entire Finnish education system into a new era, the 2020s. Three specific themes I focus on: early years, early childhood education; its importance; first years of comprehensive school — hugely important for the growth and development of the child and for all subsequent learning. It is also a platform that strengthens the basic knowledge and skills, talks about reading, writing, just these basics that should be in order. Unfortunately, at the moment, surveys show that 11% of young people who finish comprehensive school do not achieve the level of literacy they can achieve in upper secondary education. This is a major challenge for us, which is being resolved, among other things, at the national literacy forum. Then the big theme is also this continuous learning, i.e. how to prepare children and young people with the capacity to cope with changing working life, continuous change. The work of the future is learning, and we must be able to strengthen the structures that the education system also supports through the career, along the way of life, learning new things in all kinds of life situations. The reform of vocational education is already in place, the reform of upper secondary school is in the consultation process. Comprehensive school will be developed through teacher training in particular. New curricula — there we still have a lot of work to do with special education, among other things. Higher education: raising the level of education, skills: the goal is that by 2030 at least 50 per cent of the age group will:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u163	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma said that the government, and I personally too, should remain lazy about the government's family policy. Now the one to whom this should be an exam has apparently already left the gym, but this left me wondering quite a bit what the Heinäluoma meant there. I would like to tell you that the focus of this government's family policy is on a programme of changes in child and family services, with tens of millions of euros invested in it. In an exceptional way, the elements in the child’s everyday life, the basic services from the child health clinic to school health care and, above all, the interface between schools and day care centres and the joint competence of these professionals, are finally combined with the development of child protection, so that workers do not lose weight under the burden of responsibility, and the emphasis is placed on preventive services. I believe that this is one of the biggest problems in Finnish family policy that we have been able to overcome for a long time, and that change is needed in the municipalities and in the future regions so that the support of parenthood is more than just a wish at the level of speech. Mr Niinistö, you raised the issue of the lack of equality in government, as it were, and in my previous speech I pointed out that, in my view, the action taken here on the side of the family leave system and on the side of women's labour market status, EUR two and a half thousand in the form of a lump sum for employers in women-dominated sectors, was not minor. I too believe that more action is needed, and all the work we have done now will certainly serve as a basis for its progressive reform of family leave. And as far as this equality is concerned — and that is your argument that I have left to think seriously — I am terribly glad that the government has invested an exceptional amount of money in the fight against violence in close relationships. Shelters financing work, that is to say, shelters that operate in situations where people have encountered violence in their families, receive 70 per cent more funding, and that is already the act that Finland is committed to doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u164	And then these one-minute speeches. There Mr Rinne has asked many times — please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u165	Mr President! In many cases, reference has been made to this report by the Social Security Office and it states quite clearly that ‘the basic security benefits have been weakened by various measures,in particular by index freezes’. As has been stated, 2016 according to this study, there has been a turnaround which has led to an increase in inequality and income inequality, especially among low-income people. In particular, unemployed persons, families with children and students, especially low-income families, will be listed. And they conclude in this press release: ‘Fundamental security cuts have led to a deterioration in the situation of people with the lowest status in society. This is not fair. The weak state and outlook of central government finances were used as the basis and justification for these operations. Now the view has changed, the economy is growing. If the government wants to keep everything involved, it will cancel the freezes on the indexes.” This is what the Secretary-General of the Social Security Office has said, and I agree with this wish. Prime Minister Sipilä, change the political direction in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u166	Mr President! This is clearly stated in the SOST report: ‘It must be taken into account that simulation calculations aim to achieve only theimpact of legislative changes on disposable household income. For example, changes in unemployment or changes in wages do not affect the results.” These are quite essential things by the way, and you are forgetting them all the time here,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u169	Madam President! It is good that security is strongly on the agenda in the last year of this government and parliament. Security of everyday life, police and also external security through intelligence laws. Of course, the economy is also at the heart of the issue, and it is good that the economy has now been brought to growth, employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. Yes, it is quite a significant change that more than 70,000 Finns have regained their jobs from unemployment, and this is reflected exceptionally strongly in the daily lives of these people, and also in the livelihoods of families. Also, the reduction in daily care fees for ordinary Finnish families — EUR 1200 reduced the daily care fees at the beginning of this year — is a hard effort for families with children, a hand-out for those who consider this country to be alive and vibrant, and we need more of these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u170	Madam President! I will return to the regional reform which seems to be moving forward, although it seems difficult to find supporters for it, especially outside the centre party. As far as I can see, the problems of regional reform are not improving and we are still in the process of creating regions that are not entitled to tax. This easily means underbudgeting services, or if this does not happen, it will mean that the budgeted funds will be used forcefully by the end of November. Above all, without the right to tax, the representatives of the provinces, whom we parties should all find in such a hurry, threaten to become rubber stamps for future cuts in social services, threatens to become scapegoats for having to take away a certain amount of budgeted money — when it is thought that only the planning of the regional reform must have sunk more than EUR 100 million already. In other words, I would like to urge that, if we are in the process of implementing and carrying out a social reform which is historic, we do not collude with it all the extra things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u171	Mr President! We have rightly paid attention here to the situation of young women, among other things, and it is, of course, a pity that the reform of family leave has not now been brought forward. However, as has also been pointed out here, there is also a very close connection between early childhood education and early childhood education fees, which have now been reduced by the government, and it has a clear effect on the fact that the use of early childhood education will certainly increase. It's easier and possible for more families now. In addition, a change in the early childhood education law is being introduced into the hall this spring, which also strengthens the quality of early childhood education. The exclusion of young men and the general development of exclusion are also worrying. However, we need to consider whether extending compulsory education is the right way to do so. As the Minister for Education has already mentioned, too many young people graduate from comprehensive school without sufficient literacy. We may need to focus primarily on ensuring that these post-graduate capacities are at the right, adequate level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u172	Madam President! In a few hours, many things have been discussed between earth and heaven, but there are a few things I want to raise. It would have been a question for the Prime Minister, but I understand that there are other jobs. Linking immigration to this need for intelligence law, Mr. Basic Finns, is, of course, political pushing the head of a little stale bush. At the same time, it is forgotten that new tools are being sought for the security of our nation, but it is also good to remember that this is not just a search for tools against external threats, but we have been able to deal with the kind of attacks, which have shocked this Finnish society in such a way, without excluding threats in any way more general terms, but we are not going to stigmatise peoples or groups of peoples on the basis of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u173	Mr President! This spring we will receive a new proposal for the Åland Act of Self-Government. From the perspective of Åland, one of the most important elements of the reform is to bring about a reform of the economic self-government system. All state taxes are levied in Åland in exactly the same way as in the rest of the country. The Åland Islands will then recover a certain amount of compensation. The problem with the current self-government system is that the level of compensation is no longer sufficient to finance public services, especially when the population of Åland is growing rapidly. It is therefore very important that the level of compensation be adjusted in the context of the reform of the Autonomy Act, so that: Åland will recover a fair share of paid taxes in order to finance public services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u174	Mr President! The Prime Minister has pointed out here that climate policy must strengthen the EU's leadership, and the Minister for the Environment has pointed out the things that have been done in Finland and the objectives we have. It should be noted, however, that when we want to be among those who ensure that we get close to that 1.5-degree level, that we do not go over it in this warming, we are required to do more than what we are currently committed to. By 2050 these emission reductions should be made between 130 and 150 %, and the Finnish Climate Act assumes 80 % reductions by that time limit. So now the question is: are we really prepared to be called upon as part of this common European Union climate policy to do much more than we are currently prepared to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u175	Mr President! It is very good that early childhood education fees have been reduced, and thank you very much for that. However, there are many challenges. The participation rate of early childhood education should increase. High-quality early childhood education has a positive impact on the whole life of a person and also on later school careers. Quality is also important for the level of participation, because parents rely on the quality of early childhood education. The increase in group sizes has therefore also been detrimental to the level of participation, so I hope that this quality will also be invested in in the future. Further education needs to be in good shape after comprehensive school, but it would be important to extend compulsory education to secondary level, since those who do not have a second degree are at high risk of exclusion and have a very low employment rate compared to the rest of the population. The question is therefore also linked to the employment rate. There is still time for the government to bring forward a proposal to extend compulsory education, and that is what I very much and warmly hope for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u176	I will give you three more speeches and then let us finish — three hours have passed — and these three are representatives of Kääriäinen, Kiuru and Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u177	Mr President! In any case, the Prime Minister's review showed that the emphasis on integrity was striking, which I think is quite the correct emphasis on the situation where the economic turn has taken place, which also works for integrity, if that is what we want. The fact that unemployment is being eradicated in the way described by Minister Lindström is the most difficult thing from now on. You have to try it together, not by ordering or dictating, but by trying to do it together. This is the issue of the shortage of labour in many places for a long time. There are many good companies that are successful in exporting but do not receive skilled labour. The question is: does the government have a rapid conversion and reorientation of vocational training plans to address this labour shortage in companies? Well, there's no answer, but let this question stay in the air for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u178	Madam President! Intelligence legislation is a broad package with civilian intelligence, military intelligence, law enforcement issues and, of course, this need for constitutional change. It is a broad package, and there are many points in the legislative package that talk about a change in the security situation without going into detail exactly what is meant by the change in the security situation: talking about the Baltic Sea, talking about cyber threats, talking about hybrid threats and so on. The fact that this intelligence law is well prepared, it is a balanced whole, is a good thing, but I am a little concerned about what is the concrete need there in the background that causes its need to be changed. And perhaps Minister Häkkänen could comment on what he considers to be the greatest threat, which has led to this need to amend the intelligence law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u179	Mr President! The government has now forgotten about special children. Special groups have been dismantled and special children have been transferred to the general education category, but the support has not been transferred. There are currently not enough professionals, assistants and special teachers in the class, involved. OAJ commented on this, Olli Lukekainen was concerned about the support given to special children. In what way does the government now intend to ensure that special children receive the support they need and that general education classes do not grow to such an extent that education is disrupted by everyone else? In what way does the government intend to make sure that teachers are able to do this most important work in the world? And now that we still have the Minister of Justice here, I would like to ask: when there was a record in the government programme of hardening the punishments of paedophiles, where are we going to check these out?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u180	The conversation is beginning to stop now. Thank you, everyone. Surely the answers to these questions can be found in Question Hours and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u181	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Sanna Lauslahti has, in a letter to Parliament of 5 February 2018, requested exemption from the post of representative from 10 April 2018 in order to become the CEO of the Pharmaceutical Industries Association. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u182	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In his letter to Parliament on 13 February 2018, Outi Mäkelä has requested exemption from the post of representative from 5 March 2018 to become Mayor of Nurmijärvi. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u183	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u184	Mr President! On the basis of the Prime Minister's announcement, a wide-ranging debate has just been held on the future of Finland and on the construction of good development trees. There is no doubt that national research, its exploitation and education based on it have an important role to play here, and this is the role of the Academy of Finland. Now, after a very wide-ranging debate, we are talking about a rather specific law, but that also requires consideration, because the guidelines of the university administration of the highest research should be taken into account, and that is why, even in this referral debate at the beginning of the evening, a few brief comments are needed. Indeed, the role of universities and research institutes in carrying out high-quality research is important and often still in international scientific cooperation. Only this will enable our universities to provide the highest level of education, allow researchers to participate in international scientific conferences, create new innovations and maintain national civilisation. In funding this, the Academy of Finland has an important role to play and the organisation and administration of the Academy should therefore be taken seriously. From an international point of view, the importance of the Academy in our time-limited research funding is very central. When universities’ own research resources are small, all significant research is carried out with external funding. In recent years, much emphasis has been placed on research in support of industry and innovation, and this is important, but its funding often takes place in the framework of external decision-making. Good and free basic research is financed competitively on the basis of peer review. Forgetting something like that would be a serious mistake. It is unanimous that real innovations are not born from above, but from within a free scientific community. Of course, it is clear that society has the right to direct research financed by tax resources to some extent, but overly far-reaching control would be a major mistake. Developments in the administration of universities and science in recent years have increased power outside the scientific community. Universities have increased their external contribution to the administration on the basis of university law and have certainly had positive effects — the university administration has become more flexible. But the other side of the medal has been that the scientific community is alienated from the affairs of its own university. This has undeniably been seen by the growing discontent of the university population, and this is a dangerous development whose problems we are witnessing at the moment in the case of the new University of Tampere. There have also been similar developments in the Academy of Finland. At one time, the highest administrative body in the Academy was the central committee of science. It consisted mainly of the chairmen of the Scientific Councils. It was then replaced by the Academy’s government, which was made up of experts from outside the university world and often from industry and administration. At least the chairmen of the Scientific Councils had the right to be present and to speak. I know that the idea of abolishing this right of presence was on the table in the preparation of this law. It would have been far too far-reaching to eliminate science from the Academy's administration, and the government of the country must therefore be flouted for rejecting this idea. However, another problem remained in the bill in the light of this reflection. The term of the members of the Scientific Councils would now be limited from the previous two to one, and that is a problem when I know that new members always take their time to get inside the decision-making process, and this would make it possible to continue to shift the focus of decision-making to the administration. I know that it has been said that there is a number of Members' work, which can weigh on researchers, but in such a situation you can always say that you are not available for another period. The number of scientific committees has also been discussed. In the past, there were six according to the disciplines, now there are four, and the bill says there would be only three. There have also been questions about the importance of this in terms of scientific evaluation, but, on the other hand, knowing that cooperation between the sciences and the crossing of fences is important, this proposal can be well defended. All in all, therefore, I believe that there are some very necessary reforms in this draft law, and the proposal must be supported. But I hope that the committee will carefully consider whether there are sufficient grounds to limit the term of the members of the committees to just one. The Academy of Finland is of great importance and it and its funded basic research must be supported in every way. But in future decision-making, both universities and the Academy must consider that science and the university community are not being swept out of government, and it may be asked whether the university and the Academy have already gone too far in the emphasis placed on outside society, the interests of the economy and governance at the expense of science and the scientific community. Science must not be forgotten in the management of scientific research.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u185	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u186	Mr President, Herr Talman! We have a report from the National Audit Office on the supervision of municipal elections in 2017, and when you read this report from the Audit Office, you may conclude that the law works the way we have wanted it to work and we have no bigger problems to deal with. The main conclusion of this report is that when there were more than 17,000 notification obligations, only 8 except for all submitted this notification, and the Agency has no reason to believe that these notifications are not correct. But there is a reason why the debate on electoral funding should also take place today. Today, a moment ago, it became known that the parliamentary party secretaries were unable to agree on the unification of the parliamentary elections and the EU elections, which means that we will have three elections in the next 1.5 years, i.e. the regional elections now in autumn, the parliamentary elections in the spring of 14 April and the European Union elections in May-June 2019. This is a challenge, of course, for the parties and also for the candidates, and this is not without problems in terms of election funding either. After all, we have a law on the electoral funding law that came into force in 2010, and Article 1 describes the three tasks that this electoral financing legislation has. The first objective of this law is to increase transparency in election funding and the second is to increase awareness of the potential links between candidates. But it also has a third purpose, and its third purpose is to limit the increase in the costs of candidates' election campaigns. I believe that this increase in transparency and information is taking place at the moment, but the increase in the costs of election campaigns is continuing and the current legislation does not seem to be able to address this. Election campaigns are becoming even more expensive. I consider this development to be unhealthy. In the past, the Parliamentary Audit Committee has paid particular attention to increasing the cost of parliamentary election campaigns, but this concern is also relevant for municipal and EU elections, and of course this involvement in regional elections will further increase this problem. In 2009, the latest parliamentary party election committee put forward the idea that consideration should also be given to the setting of campaign ceilings in Finland. This idea, I believe, was not subsequently reflected in the revised electoral funding law, but I will raise it again here. It was then stated in this committee that it might be useful to set up a campaign ceiling on advertising per candidate, which would be EUR 10000 in municipal elections, EUR 50000 in parliamentary elections and EUR 80000 in EU elections. As I said, the Parliamentary Audit Committee has previously expressed its concern about the increase in the costs of these election campaigns and, in particular, the negative consequences of this, for example, on becoming a candidate. I believe that this concern should continue to be shared and taken seriously. This development is very unhealthy and should be addressed. And now, for example, when we look at the acceleration of this increase in costs in the elections, if we look at 2011, those who were obliged to report in the then parliamentary elections spent a total of EUR 8.4 million on these campaigns. That's $8.4 million. And already four years later, 2015, this figure, 8.4, had risen to 9.7, which is a very accelerating development. In 2015, the smallest campaign that was subject to the reporting obligation was EUR 2,700 and the largest was nearly EUR 130,000. So there are also very big differences between the candidates. I find it worrying that even the average was more than EUR 35,000 among those obliged to report, not to mention those who have passed through, for whom it was well over EUR 40000. Several campaigns of EUR 50000 were also seen in municipal elections 2017. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to say that the purpose of Article 1 of the Electoral Finance Act to increase transparency, access to information, links and control works very well, but this second purpose of the Act, namely to limit the increase in campaign costs for candidates, does not materialise under these circumstances. And somehow I think that EUR 10000 in municipal elections, EUR 50000 in parliamentary elections and EUR 80000 in EU elections would be enough for each candidate to reasonably get his own message through those elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u187	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Happy Valentine's Day to all those present! Congressman Feldt-Ranta was holding up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u190	Mr President! At this point, quite briefly, I am pleased once again that there is also a debate here in the Chamber on this campaign ceiling. After all, we have had this debate almost every year, and I have repeatedly pointed out that I too am one of those Members who find it somewhat problematic that the prices of campaigns are rising to a rather staggering degree. That is precisely why I considered the proposal, which at some point was also on the agenda of the committee at the time, sensible and still sensible. At the time, these campaign ceilings were worth it to the SDP. Now, I hope, President, that since we have been discussing these issues quite a few times now — perhaps even Mr Heinonen is starting to warm up a little bit more to this idea — we can really think about this campaign ceiling at some point. I admit that it is not a problem-free system, of course. There are different situations for different people, but I think that this is a question worth considering. I therefore welcome the fact that Mrs Feldt-Ranta raised this point in her own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u191	Mr President! I am with those Members of Parliament who see the need for this campaign ceiling. It is clear that there will then also be questions that need to be considered, such as the fact that there will always be people through publicity, who will then be better known to people. But, of course, this basic work on politics is often done at municipal level and it is sought from there, even through municipal elections, where the amounts of campaigns are not a threat to democracy that they pose in parliamentary elections or in the European elections. This comment by Mr Heinonen on this reporting obligation in connection with municipal elections in relation to these ties: I have been doing the same thing in my own town in Lahti, where I chaired the council last season. Unfortunately, I also came across the fact that although I was the chairman of the council sending pastoral letters, that there should be a commitment to declare, this advice or encouragement did not seem to apply to all the delegates, or at least not so much, that this commitment notice would have been submitted to the City Assembly. In this context, of course, I would also like to thank those, and in particular those, who were elected by the majority, who felt it was their duty to express their own responsibilities. I say ‘obligation’ because it is an obligation,and But I do consider this increase in campaigns to be a genuine problem for democracy. We can come to a situation where only people with good income or people who are able to obtain funding through an external actor or actor will become familiar with the people in the elections and thus receive their message and represent the people. But I would also like this people to be represented by those representatives who do not have economic opportunities such as those on good income, or
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u192	Mr President! It is good that Mr Feldt-Ranta opened the debate here. That is important and I am sure that the Committee on Audit will look at these. I think we should look a little further. The candidates for municipal elections are forced to announce every cup of coffee here, and that is a good thing. At the moment at Sitra, our former colleagues Hyssala and Backman are doing a broader democratic review. We know that the support of the parties is 30 million. Various organisations will be supported with a pool of 0.5 billion at least. We know that tax subsidies for various interest groups amount to at least 400 million. These organisations, due to the deductibility of membership fees and the tax exemption for income, also received substantial dividends. Last time I read in the papers, there will be an additional dividend distribution from public-interest housing companies. I also think that these various interest groups have an impact on democracy. Now Mr Harkimo had an initiative here that the financial statements of these organisations should be public even on the Internet. Well, I guess it's getting to be, but there's not enough transparency, that is, in the whole effect. It really bothers me that I, as a Member of Parliament, have to declare every cup of coffee separately in the election support announcement, but then with regard to the 0,5 billion-society pot, which is public support, there is not enough transparency. In this respect, I think that we should now discuss in the Audit Committee the need to be more open to public support for this public influence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u193	Mr President, Herr Talman! I therefore genuinely believe that we should be proud and pleased that our democracy works so well. We can have a debate today when we recall where a few years ago we were at the heart of the evil election money scandal, that we have since reformed not only the culture of action but also the legislation, and now we see that this notification and control procedure is working as the legislator has wanted. Representative Heinonen presented here that this type of accounting obligation would be introduced. Personally, I am not really warming up to this idea because, as we have already talked about this funding for the elections, quite a few candidates would have the threshold even higher to be nominated for the elections. It is good to remember that, in addition to our professional politicians, many municipal decision-makers, for example, have been nominated for their own work, their families, and I would in no way like to increase their burden and raise that threshold to stand as a candidate. Let's make it as easy as we can. That is how democracy works in the best possible way. But, Mr President, just a few more words about this campaign ceiling. I find it rather high the idea of a 50000 euro campaign ceiling in the parliamentary elections. I believe, and I am absolutely convinced, that EUR 50 000 in any constituency will be able to get its own message through and stand out among the other candidates. In no way do I find it impossible. On the other hand, I consider it unhealthy the development that was seen, among other things, in the last parliamentary elections, that some of the candidates spent more than EUR 120000 on election campaigns. I do not believe that this is in any way in relation to the concept of democracy in Finnish society. I very much hope that the Committee of Auditors, when dealing with this report, will reconsider this issue of the campaign ceiling.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u194	Mr President! As Mr Kari pointed out, quite a few municipalities have had these voluntary declarations of engagement, and it would be a good place to be a little loud and waken up to these. Of course, everyone can also play an active role — I have kept on my own website this type of electoral money notification procedure even before the election money was raised, i.e. the revenue and expenditure reported in the 2007 elections. I did not, Mr Feldt-Ranta, mean that it would have to be made at the accounting office, but perhaps the same type as it is at the moment, where it would be said that this amount of money has gone to advertising, that much to that amount, to this extent, to make it easier to estimate its size. This EUR 800, as I pointed out earlier, is a rather bureaucratic system at the moment: to print or mail back and forth forms, with one check on the fact that there was less than EUR 800, I assure you, under and back. It might well be thought that insurance could already be provided for notification if it exceeds that 800. Of course, we in Parliament have had such a model in place with regard to the gifts received by Members of Parliament. But then our media interprets it in such a way that the Members of Parliament did not tell about their gifts, that is to say, give the impression that we have received gifts but have not made those declarations when this decree has been made precisely so that no announcement should be made if you have not received a gift. It may then be better to continue with this unnecessary bureaucracy — the posting of documents, one check and an autograph — even with these electoral declarations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u195	Mr President! Finns must be able to count on this in our electoral system, and one part of this confidence is that we have an open system of elections, municipal and state elections, from which citizens can check where the representative or candidate has collected their election funding, and thus make an assessment of whether the representative has some interests that can affect the decision-making capacity, for example, in the interests of the electoral funder or in matters close to it. This level, where interests are very close, is often the municipal level. There, local business or trade, which is of course part of the local economy, or some other actor may come up with hopes for a city councilman, a county councilman, members of the provincial government, and so on about some of the formulas that were discussed here in Parliament some ten years ago during the election money. That is why this issue of dependence is extremely important, particularly at municipal level — without any prejudice to Parliament or the European Parliament, and so on, until the presidential elections. Through it, it is good to send greetings to the Audit Committee in the context of this referral that it might now be a place for these discussions to be gathered in this Chamber or in that smaller room of the Sibelius Academy during the previous two years, the information pack now in one of the consolidated presentations or bottom papers in the Audit Committee, to see what can be done about these elements, and to make concrete proposals for the next elections jointly by the parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u196	Mr President, Herr Talman! Yes, I am a member of the Parliamentary Audit Committee, and there is also Vice-President Ala-Nissila and alternate representative Viitanen, which means that we welcome them. Of course, it is important that this debate continues in committee — thank you for that. Mr Heinoselle: I fully agree with you. Like you, I am very much in favour of transparency of any kind, both in terms of the commitment of the decision-makers and in terms of funding. However, I think that the current legislation and the obligation to notify are very well-suited to the letter of the legislator. In addition to this, it is of course good to encourage the individual players to have even greater transparency, and like you, I have also encouraged it by my own example and made a commitment notice, including at municipal level, and also in real time on my home page, everything, every ten euros that I have received as election funding from individuals or from others. But I think that the big picture really is, now that we are discussing this control of election funding, that supervision is working well, that the obligation to report is being scrupulously respected, that there is a good record of ties. But the letter of the law, as the costs of campaigns have increased, could almost be said, exponentially and no longer correspond to such good, say the Nordic level, should the legislator intervene. The current legislation does not provide the means to do so, and I therefore hope that the Parliamentary Audit Committee will listen to this referral debate, in its own report to take a position on this issue — as has been the case in the past — and that the parties will then consider whether it is really time to put a stop to this development and to make some sense of the price tag for these election campaigns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u197	Mr President! I'll come back to this big picture. I think democracy, democracy, must be defended. Here again today, two Members of Parliament joined the private sector. I don't think it's a good development. I think we have a little bit of the spirit that we are doing a little bit of our own business, and even today it was said here that the adaptation pension for parliamentarians should be driven down. There's no such thing anymore. The MP has the adjustment allowance but has no earnings-related unemployment benefit, we do not have the holiday allowance, our pension is halved. The salary of the MP does not compete in the private sector. I am not asking for more pay, but I say that we should appreciate this work of our own and at the same time also see what this impact of society as a whole is. If we have interest groups receiving tax subsidies of 400 million — I am reading EK and MTK and all of this — then why can it not be transparent and public? Why can it not also be made subject to certain requirements because it affects society in many ways? We spin far too much in our own cups, we have to look at this whole thing too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u198	Mr President! Let us correct Mr Ala-Nissilä's speech that, as I understand it, one of these was not transferred to the private sector but to the public sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u203	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissilä raised a very important issue, namely respect for democracy and the maintenance of its appreciation. That is a very important task for all of us. There was also a debate on the fact that, in the area of electoral funding, of course, transparency and engagement are a very important part, but also on whether Parliament can be a round door from which to come and go. Under no circumstances can a parliament be a hollipop to which one is first nominated, be elected, and then take off quickly for other tasks. In the past, Parliament has had a very strict practice in which it has been considered as a criterion that representation can only be left unfinished if it takes up tasks of national importance, socially important tasks or international important tasks. We have now seen two unhealthy developments in recent years. The first was case Carl Haglund, where the parliament lowered the bar very low. At that time, the Parliament granted the divorce to a person who was only a representative of the year, who moved to become a vice-president of a private company. I regret this and hope that this kind of development in Parliament will not be established. Another unhealthy development, which has spoken quite a lot in recent days, is that when we are undergoing an historic major reform of social welfare and health care, at the same time, over the last few years, from the key political places, both decision-makers and people in key assistant positions have moved to a number of private health services. I find it questionable that once people have been elected to a public office and have gained confidence in it, that task cannot be transferred overnight to a private company's lobbying role. I hope that we all take responsibility for the fact that this confidence in democracy depends on action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u204	Mr. Speaker! After Mr Ala-Nissila's intervention, I asked for the floor, but Mrs Feldt-Ranta has said almost everything about this effectively. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that only a few points ago were given to Mr Lauslahti as a representative, and the President took the whole point from start to finish with his own actions. No Member of Parliament spoke on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u207	Mr President! The position of a Member of Parliament still needs to be strong in relation to the private sector, in relation to interest groups. That's why we have to have systems to get people here, and they'll be here longer. The real representative Mäkelä joined the public sector. I myself have moved from here to the service of the European Union and to the presence of European beef pots, but it was a truly public sector. But now, in this respect, in this transition, in the case of Mr Lauslahti, when the Council of President was unanimously presented, we did not intervene. But there is indeed a reform of the century in the field of social and health care. If I understand, Mrs Lauslahti is a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this respect, perhaps we should draw up a code of ethics here, codes of ethics as well, as companies do, as organisations do, how they do these things. We do not need any legislation, but such codes of ethics, how can we move from this task to private business if there is such a reform going on in our own committee, for example, as is currently the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u208	Mr President! I hope that such ethics rules will be built, and this would be a good place for us to use different parliamentary working groups here in Parliament, to gather a small group to think about those ethical rules. Yes, this group of health lobbyists, which, like the buzzy one in the field, genuinely raises concerns in the representatives from the right to the left and from the left to the right. When this lobbying has been actively carried out and run — even this image of publicity — not all the members of the coalition, as I see it, at least according to what is being discussed in those corridors, look at this development. But under the protection of someone, this process continues to live in this society. I hope that this proposal by Mr Ala-Nissilän, who represents the maturity and experience and know-how of this Parliament, also in these legal matters, will receive wider support and, at least by this representative, the support will be unfailing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u209	Mr President! The very positive idea raised by Mr Ala-Nissilä and supported here by Mr Kari is precisely that we would have some kind of ethical rules, because last week I drew attention to the fact that several professors of criminal law spent the time, could you say, even the hard talk about how this big social reform that is taking place involves its billion-dollar economic interest, that they also saw the risk that after some years we will have this kind of corruption scandal to break down in Finland? Of course, we have an interest in preventing these things in advance, and we also have an interest in maintaining the public's confidence that political decision-makers are independent and reflect on the interests of society and taxpayers. In public terms, I myself have suggested that the Minister of Justice, Mr Antti Häkkänen, at the Ministry of Justice, should carry out an investigation into the possible shortcomings. We also have examples of the countries of the European Union in Greco, we have a number of parliaments with such ethical rules, tough practices for decision-makers and so on. In my opinion, at a time when Parliament, during this spring, is considering a large package of legislation for the establishment of social welfare and health care and regional government, this issue is very topical, relevant and, if you could even say so, urgent. It is very good if we also have support from the government parties. It is a common interest for all of us to ensure that the public understands that political decision-makers are independent and not parties to this social and health reform, for example. It is good to see that this establishment of regional government will increase this need for transparency in the regions too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u210	Mr President! I have noticed that many of these evening sessions come with good ideas. It's not a new situation for me to get another chance to support a good idea here. In my opinion, this debate is not in vain, because there is a fairly good consensus on this point that we really need a certain set of ethical rules. I agree exactly with Mr Feldt-Ranta's description here not only of the sensitivity of leaving this house for other tasks at all, but also of the increase in transparency required by the social and regional reform. That is why it was great that this idea of parliamentary cooperation was born, which would allow us to look at this legislation. I just wanted, Mr President, to ask for the floor and support this excellent idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u211	Mr President! Quite often the weed is seen in the eyes of others and the beam is not on its own. Of course, one such move, perhaps the biggest one, took place in June 2010. The Prime Minister then left Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen, and just a few months later he became CEO of the Federation of Family Companies, which of course was significant: from the top of the nation to this type of lobbying.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u214	Mr President! I should like to speak about this issue in front of the rotts, because I also agreed with you in 2010 when you referred to the transfer of former Prime Minister Vanhanen to the private sector. I agreed with you back then. For me, this is not a party political issue either. I have the same criteria for my party and its members as for the neighbouring party. I hope that these ethical criteria will be shared and that we will all respect them. But, Mr Heinonen, I think it is a glaring difference when you compare the people who have moved from here to where they are going. I think it is quite appropriate that the role of a Member of Parliament should also be taken over by other public tasks which are considered to be of sufficient importance. For example, I believe that Mr Nasima Razmyar's transition to Deputy Mayor of Helsinki fulfils the criterion of having an important social role. As well as when Mr Kantola sought to become an archbishop, I felt that it was a public task that could be decided by Parliament. In the same way, I think it is all right that Olli Rehn, a former representative of Parliament in the centre, moved to the Bank of Finland. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u215	Mr President! This was specifically about the link to lobbying, the link to private profit, business and so on. When these positive transfers from this house were listed, reference was made to the municipality or to the European Union. For example, Mr Mäkelä's transition to the Mayor of Nurmijärvi is certainly positive in many ways, although it was not hoped that Mr Mäkelä would be removed, quite the opposite, if he had been seen here. But in any case, it is certainly a positive move to society and will further strengthen this civil society. But the fact that this is linked to lobbying: I hope that these good ideas put forward by Ala-Nissilä about ethical guidelines in this small Finland will not fall just to start blaming others and always to show that you did this and you did this. That thing never ends. We are in such a continuum that the culprits are found, there is no need to worry about it, but now you should try to focus these good ideas, good ideas on practical presentations, so that before the next elections the Parliament will be able to regulate these matters here in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u216	And again, Congressman Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u217	Mr President! This is my last speech. — It really is a different matter for Parliament to transfer to the public sector. Then it is a little different to move on to lobby organisations, of which I think, if they are mentioned, Minister Häkäman's transition to a much larger company, the head of the EK, was also an event. But then there is another matter when we have the whole reform of social security, special care, in which billions are moving. There are billions of people moving in it, and if this happens in public, nothing should happen and even the image of it being that it is now being influenced for reasons other than transparency. That is why we need ethical codes for such cases, that when major reforms are going on, billions of reforms, then we must be careful not to really have to go, as Mrs Feldt-Ranta said, afterwards to look at the problems we have at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u218	Mr President! I would now like to underline that there has been no transfer from the assembly to such social medicine companies or to the pharmaceutical business. I personally do not see the pharmaceutical industry as such a lobbyist. Then, of course, if we make restrictions in such a way that, for example, we cannot move from the assistants to the rest of the world of work, as we have been through all the parties — former assistants of the social democrats have moved to various influence companies, from the centre, from the assembly, from the green and, in fact, from almost every party — then I think that we can make such tough times, but of course we must have fair rules on how they live in the meantime if they are no longer allowed to do the assistant's work or the work they are moving away from, or, on the other hand, before they are able to do their new permanent work. On the other hand, I do not think it is very bad that movement is taking place from one direction to another. We have received excellent parliamentarians, such as Lauri Ihalainen, former Chairman of the SAK, who brought a great deal of expertise to Parliament and, on the other hand, there has been movement in the other direction. In other words, I do not think it is bad that we also have this type of working life contact from the political players when it is done in a transparent and transparent way. That's why I think it's good that such ethical rules could be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u219	Mr President! It is a pity that I came a little late in the way that I did not hear that much praise for Mr Ala-Nissila's previous speech, but I think I did catch up with this, which is something we are discussing. I think it's really important that we think about why we're coming here and how we're getting out of here. But as a representative of this world and also as a spokesman, I also wonder that when we talk a lot here about the change in working life in general and what people do, how short a career is formed and how quickly one can have to change, want it or not between jobs, I do not think that even the representatives of the people are terribly isolated from this social change. We can also come here without a longer perspective, when we cannot know how to manage ourselves or how the party is doing, and in my opinion we have to set an example in this House too, and we may have to be flexible when the situation demands it. But in no way is it easy, simple, and of course it must be remembered that Parliament is the most important decision-making forum in Finland. This is an extremely fine, valuable job, and I do not doubt whether every Member of Parliament will take it very seriously, but we must be able to discuss the issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u220	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kari for his warm words, and in this context I would also like to thank Parliament for today's decision and all colleagues for their good cooperation. There are still a few weeks of working time left, and I am sure that we will be able to use these speeches later. But for this debate which has now taken place: I hope that, if and when it is considered on what grounds a representative can obtain an exemption from Parliament, the assessment will also give careful consideration to what Mr Lohelak thought a little about in his own speech — what is appropriate for the career and future of such a representative. If, in some way, the work of a congressman is limited to that four years only, should there be some kind of roughness? However, here people work with very important things and with things that affect society in many ways. If, then, completely prevented from moving from here to other tasks, how will it affect the pursuit of human political duties and the meaningfulness of this work from that standpoint? In some ways, however, I believe that there are many ways that society can benefit from the know-how that can be gained here without necessarily being directly market or commercial or in some way corrupt and wrong. And I believe, however, that the people who are looking for this place are doing a lot of work to get elected representatives, and, quite seriously, this work is something they want to do. But as Congressman Lohela said, four years is a long time in a person's life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u221	Mr President! I thought we would get to the finish line in this good spirit, even in a ecstatic spirit, but now I noticed that we are thinking quite differently about some things. The former President, Maria Lohela, spoke in which she said, in a way, that the transformation of working life is also taking place in Parliament and must be followed. I personally think that Parliament is not a job. Parliament isn't a job. It is a matter of trust, and I personally take it very seriously that each of us in the previous parliamentary elections has asked quite a lot of the citizens. We've asked for their only vote. We have asked for their only vote, I think that is a lot to ask for. I think it is a rather harsh message for the citizens who have given us its only voice, that we are the best person in the next four years to deal with the common issues of Finland, our country, if we were to say in the middle that thank you, enough, I will move on to other tasks. In my opinion, the long-term nature of the legislator should also be required for the four-year period for which the citizens have given us their only vote to do so. It is part of democracy. It is part of maintaining the trust for which we all have a very great responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, this has been an excellent debate. However, in the course of the debate for a long time, I have never heard the words ‘The State Audit Office’s report on the control of the financing of the elections’. These key words, this report that I have in my hand, are now under discussion. —Recently on the list of speakers,I would like
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u223	Mr President! I would have just carried on with this interesting debate that I came to and listened to what was being said. — In short, I am in line with Mrs Feldt-Santa in this matter. This is not a normal job; this is the most important trust in the kingdom, and it is a question of where to move from here, where to go with the food chain: whether to go to work, to lobby, to a normal workplace, or to go from here, for example, to the Secretary-General of the United Nations or to a higher profile. So it's supposed to make some kind of difference, which missions you can just leave here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u224	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u225	Mr President, Herr Talman! We do indeed have a second report from the National Audit Office, which is now a separate report for Parliament on budgetary surveillance. One of the statutory tasks of the Audit Office is to act as a national independent fiscal supervisory body, and the results of this supervision are published and reported annually in such a report, which will then be discussed in the Audit Committee. In addition, this report, in addition to this line of fiscal policy, also examines the achievement of government objectives, the governance of the overall public finances and the progress of structural reforms, such as social security reform. I have gone through this report, and I think there are three key conclusions to be drawn from it, and all these conclusions are something that must definitely be taken into account in the policy of this final parliamentary term. The first point is that VTV estimates that the structural government deficit will deteriorate both in 2017 and 2018. According to the current forecast, this structural deficit is 1.3 per cent of GDP both in 2018 and 2019, and it is good to remember that the government’s target has been 0.5 per cent of GDP in 2019, which means that it is clearly left behind. The second point, however, is that Finland has been given flexibility and yet Finland will comply with both the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2017 and 2018. But, Mr President, perhaps the most important and third point is that, when reading this report, there has been great concern that all the major structural reforms that have been planned for this parliamentary term in order to strengthen the long-term sustainability of this particular economy have come to a head or even to a head. In this report, all the main conclusions can be found on pages 17 and 18, and the government has four major structural reforms to be considered here. The biggest and first of these are social reform, and this is a rather harsh text in this VTV report, which states that ‘Exhibitions to the reform of the war and the region were extremely uncertain in terms of the impact of the sustainability gap. Overall, the savings target of €3 billion set by the Government for social and regional reform by the end of the 2020s for cost mitigation is unlikely to be achieved in the light of current knowledge and in the context of the broad target setting of the reform." — i.e. the maximum restructuring, the so-called savings targets are unlikely. This also refers to the fact that, in international comparison, the current Finnish social security systems are not in any way expensive, and also to the fact that this kind of savings claim is also in the long six months, that the reform is also aimed at improving quality and increasing the coverage of services. Well, if the VTV is very critical of the fact that the social security savings are being made, it is also stated here that the Government Programme set a target for the savings of EUR 1 billion in the municipal statutory obligations. Since then, the government changed this objective that it does not just apply to municipalities but to the public objective as a whole, but the VTV report states that this objective seems to be very far away, towards the end of the 2020s. The third key conclusion here is that, while this has been written and put on the press, it was not known that the reform of the government's family leave would also fall. The VTV report states that the government has outlined a reform of family leave aimed at increasing employment and strengthening employment-enhancing effects. But, as we know, the government announced this week on Monday that it would completely reject this project. As the fourth project, VTV is going through the preparation of a business support reform here, and, as we know, here too, the government was forced to drop its faults, the matter has been transferred to this Parliament. VTV points out that business support reform is very important, it is important to redirect business aid, but it should also be an option to reduce the overall amount. There are very different, different expectations in the Parliament regarding this reform. Some expect billions of savings, but the truth is certain to be in some tens of millions. President! Sum totalrum: According to the VTV report, the implementation of the Sote savings targets is very uncertain, the reduction of municipalities' tasks and obligations by one billion seems to not be achieved, the reform of family leave fell, and access to business subsidies remains to be seen, it is a measure of a few ten million at most. This is worrying and tells us that, although we are currently seeing positive economic and employment developments, this little longer-term economic growth and the elimination of the sustainability gap cannot in any way be off the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u226	Mr President! Of course, the report by the Audit Office is a pleasure to start with positive news, and of course it is the growth of the economy and the improvement of employment. Perhaps, however, you can say that it is interesting that 70,000 new jobs are about the same number of young people without training, without any place to go, so you always have to remember these. It is also good, of course, that the EU criteria in this loan relationship and in others can be implemented with these flexibilitys that Finland has been granted. But then the report comes to the phrase that ‘the general government’sfinancial position is not expected to improve without worrying about the economic situation in the government’s objectives during this election period’ —not much of the government’s intentions and targets were set during this election period — and also the government’s nominalfinancial And third, it says that the structural deficit is increasing. So we have positive prospects in this economy, which is very good, and I am sure that everyone in this Chamber will support this idea, but we still have some challenges in this basic setting, how will we proceed from now on? We in this report have also drawn attention to these expenditures outside the framework — and I remember, for some years here, that I have been able to participate in these discussions, that still remains — especially because of the increase in their number. Of course, at present their number has increased in euros, as unemployment benefit, housing allowance and the wage security that have been paid has increased. Interest subsidies too, although not so much. So we have had this sort of distortion that when the frame is what determines, then we will then be able to get there outside the frame to go. Now there is this debate, which is a back-to-back debate, about the funding of Yle, which is now being transferred outside the framework, and I think that this report has paid a great deal of attention to it, that it should be taken into account when we look at this framework in the future. Here in today's opening debate, these reforms were reviewed, and this same report also states that in August 2017 the Government decided to launch a business support reform and family leave reform. Today, we have already said several times — I regret that I have to repeat — that neither of these is progressing. This report does not only address central government finances, but also involves local government finances, that is to say, the whole of public finances, and the positive thing is that municipalities have done a great deal of work and that the local government finances are actually improving slightly better than previously anticipated, despite the fact that state measures are negative compared to local government finances. Nevertheless, the situation in the municipalities is improving, even though state intervention for all these projects and cuts in state aids is weakening the local government finances. This is, of course, very positive in terms of public finances. Then a few more words about this social war, which is now this big piece, 18 billion, which in future will then be transferred from that part of local government finances to this second part of public finances, that is to say to the central government. So we move from the surplus economy to this deficit economy with this whole large package, and it will, of course, be reflected in this framework as well. When they have so far been financed mainly by municipalities with tax money, they have not been within the framework of central government finances, and now the 18 billion new ones come to this point. It's remarkable, because it's going to wave this a lot. But what happens to the social reform, and how does it work? After all, we now have a situation where hundreds of millions of euros have been spent in preparation for this — without any law — and it remains to be seen whether all these things are going to happen that way or whether hundreds of millions or tens of millions of them are going to go to Kankkula well and waste. There are small symptoms such as the Human Resources and Financial Management Company, which has been set up without legislation, and it has already been decided to cancel the legislation before it has even been dealt with. So I hope that all these hundreds of millions have actually been considered that they will not be the same as they were for this one company. This report has also drawn attention to the fact, as has just been said here, that this cut in costs of 3 billion is very uncertain. Although it is written there as a compulsory cutter in the state aid calculations, realistically, since the capitation model has promised private companies these compensations, it is assumed that through or through the fact that the cost of ict will perhaps be one and a half billion, this 3 billion will not be achieved, but rather now all experts are already talking about it and guessing how many billion more will be added to its previous career. That is why we are talking about very different sums here too, if we look at the state budget. That if we first transfer it to the 18 billion to this framework and say, in addition, that there will not be less than 3 billion, but perhaps we will have a plus 3 billion, then we will be in a very different situation when the next governments — if this goes through — should implement this and this funding has changed so much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u227	Mr President! An important point and two good speeches have already been made on this. In other words, I myself drew the same attention when I looked at this report, which, more or less, shows that the objective of the structural deficit is not being achieved and, overall, the budgetary balance objective is not being achieved, and which then sums up this situation, where we are now, that we have made some of the objectives more flexible from the point of view of the EU and so on. But when this flexibility is really based on the fact that in the future we will have structural reforms that will then correct this sustainability gap, I think that this is very well described and it has become clear that all of these are on a very uncertain basis. Quite funny, actually, you could say, and not really in a smiling sense, was that today we were just talking about, for example, this fall of the family leave reform, just today, the same day we are talking about this situation. As far as the war is concerned, we already know that this objective of cutting the cost of EUR 3 billion — I call it a savings target — will not be implemented. And what I think is the wildest thing about this is that when I have actually listened to some experts on behalf of the Committee on Finance on these matters, it has been quite said that it may be that this reform of the social security system is more costly, as has just been referred to, among other things, these IT costs and others. After all, this is a rather gruesome situation, Mr President, in that, if all of our structural reforms are not being implemented at the moment, then how on earth, for example, will we manage our economy wisely next season and with a policy that is more or less on a fair footing and so forth? And while we still have big future acquisitions, for example, on the Defence Forces side, big acquisitions once and for all, there is talk of billions of classes, I am really concerned about this overall picture of the economy in the years to come. Here too, I wanted to stress this, and it is very important that Parliament is already having these debates and is aware of this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u228	Mr President! I must now make one speech on this from the government as well, so that we do not leave a very wrong impression. These are our active opposition representatives here, and they have their hats. And when Mr Pekkarinen is Vice-President Pekkarinen and he is unable to speak, I will now sacrifice myself with Mr Hoskonen to defend the government in this tough situation. Now that we are giving a very gloomy picture of the situation, I do want to defend the actions of Prime Minister Sipilä's government. We had a rather lost ten-year period, during which the government might have been all the parties in this Chamber and sought different solutions to bring the economy to growth, and we were then, for example, lagging behind the growth of the rest of Europe. What's the situation? In fact, we are a healthy man in many ways at the moment, and our situation is good for growth if we compare it with the European Union. This special report from the National Audit Office on fiscal surveillance last year describes this rapid change from the outset in the Summary of Observations section, which says that the Finnish economy has reached a positive growth path since the recession. In 2016, the economy grew by 1.9 per cent. For the current year, i.e. that year 2017, the Ministry of Finance predicted an increase of around 2.9 per cent. An increase of 2.1 per cent was forecast for 2018, i.e. this year. The forecasts have been constantly updated upwards, and we are already talking about an increase of more than 3%, and that is of course a very positive thing. In other words, at the moment the economy is growing, employment is improving and unemployment is falling. And, as Prime Minister Sipilä pointed out a moment ago in this opening debate, he went through five key objectives he set with his government at the beginning of this parliamentary term, when that ten years were virtually lost from this point of view, and during the last parliamentary term, for example, there were 100,000 new unemployed people. He said that we were about to achieve a break in debt at the end of the parliamentary term. He stated that the second objective — which is to be fulfilled — was to end living in debt in 2021. Prime Minister Sipilä also said that during this parliamentary term the overall tax rate will not rise. This is not happening either, which means that the promise is being kept from the economic point of view. The employment rate seems to be rising at a good rate to the target of 72%. The trend in the employment rate is, in fact, close to 71 at the moment, and it has been widely estimated by economists that the government's employment objective may well be realised: 71.5 perhaps this year, then 72, even more than that, have been found. And, of course, the objective must be that we should not be content with the 72, but that we should look at an even better employment rate. And then the fifth goal that was set at the start of this government was to gain 110,000 more jobs. It is now in 70,000 at present or where, but there is also a good chance that that goal will be achieved. As I said in the opening debate myself, for quite a few families this parliamentary term has been much brighter than the last ten years overall, even from the point of view that the father or mother of many families has been able to work. And then it has also been possible to make such targeted investments in different places, such as the reduction of early childhood education fees at the beginning of this year, so that nearly 7,000 families became fully free of charge in early childhood education and the early childhood education fees of a typical Finnish middle-income family decreased by about 1200 euros. For a long time, it has not been possible to make such great hand stretches for these important Finnish families, if ever. As far as social protection is concerned, I personally believe that this government will bring regional reform and social reform to the end. They need to be actively worked on. It is certainly true that there may also be a temporary increase in costs. This happened, for example, in Sweden: at the time people got out of queues to the doctor, the cost went up. But I personally believe that when a person no longer has to wait three or four weeks after the social welfare reform and freedom of choice to get to a doctor, he or she gets timely medical treatment, then the savings come with a slight delay in not needing, for example, heavier treatments, even on the special care side, when the treatment has arrived on time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u229	Mr President! Now that this issue of family leave has also been raised in this report, I too am clinging to this detail and I am a little critical of this report in certain respects. On page 18, the report states: ‘However, some of the conditions for preparation may make it difficult to find the most effective solution. The pre-arrangement that the possibility of caring for a child until the age of three is maintained at home under the aid scheme will reduce the number of options in place.’ However, this now sounds a little more like a political approach than an objective fact to me. There is no empirical evidence that this three-year forced downward pressure in its entirety would have positive effects on central government finances. This is a very political and ideologically charged issue, which has also been seriously debated today. This seems to me to be a somewhat prescriptive estimate, which I would not like to read in the report by the Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u230	Mr President! I myself am used to trusting the National Audit Office and I trust it, even after reading this document, in so far as I have not yet reached the end. I have been working with the Municipal Committee, the Administrative Committee, from there since 2011, and I have drawn attention to these merits of rising or falling local government finances and discussions on the search for the guilty on the way several times. It is good that now comes the last confirmation that this recovery or recovery of local government finances, a slight improvement that has now taken place, is mainly due to the municipalities themselves or, you can say in a positive sense, caused by themselves. The sad thing is that the state has not been able to support local government finances enough in recent years to ensure that the municipality's actions would have been such soft and adaptive actions, but the local government sector in Finland has made those corrections themselves decisively and the result is shown in that respect. However, this basic line of fiscal policy is strongly linked to this kind of Tanzanian economic policy in my own thinking, and I believe that in the coming years, although here we are feasting on the growing GDP figures, there are so many uncertainties that the foundations of sustainable economic policy will be remembered in the coming years and, above all, now that the coming years are planned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u231	Mr President! Indeed, this report, the special report of the National Audit Office to Parliament on budgetary surveillance in 2017, does give a good picture of what has happened in this country in recent years and what is happening. Of course, the picture is limited when not everything fits in such a small booklet. But we must always remember, when it comes to economic matters, that there is no situation, that suddenly, when the parliamentary term changes, a new government or a new parliament gets a so-called clean table. No, no, no, no, no. That's where we go from where we left off. In the last period, central government debt grew by EUR 20 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u234	Mr President! Both Mr Heinonen and Mr Hoskonen are calling for an optimistic attitude on the part of the opposition. As a member of the Audit Committee itself... By the way, there is no such Government—Opposition at all in the Committee on Audit, but all the decisions, all the policies there have been taken unanimously, and with the same indifference, I will also address this current report from the State Budget Audit Office. Of course, we are all happy about the positive things we see in the economy and in employment at the moment. They are very welcome after this ten-year long wilderness migration. Let us be genuinely proud and content with them, regardless of who has done it. You can never give enough thanks. But my own message in my very constructive speech was that, in addition to the positive outlook we have a great responsibility as decision-makers to look at it a little longer. And that's what I was referring to when I said that it's kind of unruly to tell you this VTV report. It states, inter alia, that ‘The audit agency estimates that the general government’s financial position will not improve the economic situation without worrying about the government’s objectives during Moreover, the nominal general government financial position does not achieve the objective balance during the parliamentary term, as central government finances are becoming stronger at a slower pace than they were intended to be.’ My message was that this is a fact. You don't have to chew on it, but you have to take it into account. The decision must not be put in the sand, but it is now up to all of us to prioritise, including government and government parties, reforms that can bridge this medium- and long-term sustainability gap. And my further message is that I think it needs to be done in a fairer way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u235	Mr President! In my opinion, it is precisely this big challenge, the sustainability gap, all this and the achievement of the objectives that we are considering in a very constructive way. One thing that was actually less important in my own speech, but which I would like to mention here, because it was also a theme in that big opening debate today, is, of course, that, once we have made value choices during this term of government, we have made the choice of values that, unfortunately, the reforms will fail, but then this policy of surgery will remain, when today's news was also that it has contributed to increasing inequality and that the sufferers have been, among other things, students, unemployed and low-income families. It is a fact, it is a sad fact, and for its part it will certainly also harm us so that in the future the costs can multiply as poverty also causes common costs for our society. On the other side of the coin, the fact that there has been a great deal of money for large tax reductions for the most well-off — Mr President, that is how it is. And then, of course, it means that it leaves a permanent gap in the state's income when taxes are reduced in a permanent way. This adds one more difficulty to the equation that we have been thinking about today in a rather serious way. I hope that, on this scale too, the debate on the big, major challenges of the coming years will continue in this Parliament, that we will be aware of the situation and that, for example, this last year, the government will take the necessary measures to provide a more sustainable basis for the next term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u236	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Feldt-Ranta for her very constructive speech. He's got the right angle on this. It is true that when cuts are made or reforms are made, they always happen to a person more painfully than to another person. It's true. But in tax policy, for example, it can be said that the tax reductions of this government have been concentrated on low and middle incomes. It is true that when one percent is reduced, the tax reduction of 100,000 is slightly higher than that of 30,000. It's just a percentage of math. In the same way, one might ask, for example, those who negotiate wage increases, why percentage-based increases are always made, because they are the ones who are oppressing these low-income ones, favouring high-income ones. A person receiving EUR 2000 per month will receive EUR 20 per cent of the increase, but then the person who earns 100,000 is already a ton. Since I understand that Mr Pia Viitanen represents a strong trade union movement, there might be a hint to these negotiators that, when you have often spoken about the equality gap, this would be a good point of reference. Try to change this system so that the low-income one sometimes gets a higher increase rather than a high-income one. It's an agreement at the labour market tables, not in this house. The second point, which was the excellent speech by Mrs Feldt-Santa, is what is the prospect of future reform. No reforms have been withdrawn. The reform of social welfare and health care is progressing. It must be remembered that the provincial government, when it comes to coming, removes a huge number of different administrative hairs. We come to a straightforward situation where the provinces themselves are allowed to decide their own affairs much more than they are today. Official power is diminishing, and democracy is growing. I do not understand what Parliament should disagree with on this issue, in the largest club of democracy in this country. I hope that these positive prospects will be taken into account. It is certain that even after this reform:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u237	Mr President! I have to go on with this taxation in relation to the views of the previous speaker. It is also a matter of concern that, contrary to what the speaker may have said, the government has placed particular emphasis on those who are well-off. We've been talking about these apothecary deductions, the tax cuts on millions of inheritances,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u240	Mr President! Mrs Feldt-Ranta gave a good speech, where she was looking specifically at this situation for the future, and I personally would like to see it remain in the midst of all the confusion in Mrs Viitane, for the future we must be working together to build and look for those solutions, as Mrs Feldt-Ranta, as a good reconciliation politician, pointed out specifically that we must find common solutions for structural reforms. This social reform is, in a certain way, a somewhat tragic example of the fact that it has been done for too long, that we have had too many social veterans. If there had been a common will — but everyone has had the will to resolve the social and health challenges — then perhaps it would have been worth looking for an even wider consensus five to ten years ago, and I hope that such a common spirit of reform raised by Feldt-Ranta will be found in the structural reforms that this country needs, which is otherwise the case with several pages of this report. The fact that our overall tax rate is not rising has been precisely a well-functioning tax policy. We have made sure that the taxation of labour has been reduced, and this has been done, contrary to what Mr Viitanen said, with emphasis on those on low and middle incomes, and it is intended to ensure that we all have a little bit more money left for each of us in such a situation. In other words, the overall tax rate is not rising during this parliamentary term, and this year no one's work is being taxed more heavily.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u241	Mr President! Here I am quoting the report that has just been discussed. After all, it is stated here in clear Finnish that Finland complies with the rules of the preventive and corrective arm of the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact — it did last year and it will also do so this year. So you could say nicely that we are in the observation class on how to get our economy in order. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have any chips to go solo. I hope, just as Mr Feldt-Santa's excellent speech has shown, that analytical analysis, including Mr Heinonen's own speech, highlighted this point, where we could improve, and I think that the big improvement will come from the fact that, for example, in the labour market, we are lightening the structures, making them more flexible. We have such huge rigid labour market structures that we have never seen before, the most rigid structures in Europe. We always compare the situation with Denmark, that there are so and so good compensations in Denmark, yes and so good a system. Yes, it is, much better than ours, but why is it like this? That is why the compensation at the beginning of unemployment is so high — almost 100% of what you have received when you become unemployed — that there is also a sanction. If you are not actively looking for work during that period, that unemployment benefit will fall sharply immediately after a few months. There are very flexible structures and unemployment almost zero. There are already areas in Finland where the employment rate has risen by more than 80 per cent: in Åland, for example, then in Southern Ostrobothnia I think it has gone by more than 75 per cent. So it is possible here too, but we must have the courage to renew ourselves. Unfortunately, what was done 20 years ago has been and gone, and it is not by crying, nor by remembering and making in this Chamber longing speeches, how it used to be, but now it is. Tomorrow's gonna be done from now on, not by looking in the rearview mirror.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u242	Mr President! As stated in this special report on fiscal surveillance, this social reform is of course a very important reform for the economy, and that is why we all have reason to hope that it will be implemented in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u247	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, I will only return to this tax issue when Mr Heinonen referred to my speech. Unfortunately, the fact is that the taxation of families with children, for example, is being tightened, and that is not a yes. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Secondly, as regards this purchasing power, the purchasing power of low- and medium-income pensioners fell according to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service. Despite the fact that the government gives the impression that much and good is now being given to pensioners, purchasing power fell for those on low and medium incomes. There were no reforms to make the situation of people receiving a small pension easier in some way, and the cuts are drastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u248	Mr President! In this fine spirit of reconciliation, which is obviously in the air, to Mrs Feldt-Ranna, whom I appreciated, I would say that, if you think about political history, the present Social Democratic Party took a very fine course at the time when Mr Väinö Tanner, who was the most respected social democrat in history, appeared and acted modestly. That is what the party has done since then, and I have greatly appreciated and appreciated the work that the party has done for Finland. Similarly, when I felt I had to take a new course — whether I am now blue, tannery or what — I took that new course when I needed it, and we are independent, our own, new party, the Blue Future. Not only did we leave, but we formed a new one, and this will certainly highlight the further we go. As far as social and health reform is concerned, I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs making an opinion on it at the time, and I am very pleased with the work of the committee which was done in the parliamentary spirit in the sense of the composition and working methods of the committee, and it is well balanced and takes into account both these market-related issues and, for example, the basic values of citizens in terms of the services that each country of Finland must be able to provide in all parts of Finland, regardless of its wealth and other such issues. In other words, I believe that the government has done the right thing in that sense, that, in the past, when a solution could not really be found parliamentaryly, and even before that, this question fell into the Constitution, we have now gone as the government's responsibility lies. In other words, we are going to make the proposal ourselves, and I think that it has also passed a very balanced and precise assessment by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u249	Mr President! Now that the talk came about these economic effects of the planned social welfare reform, which is also mentioned in the report, and the expected savings that social welfare reform can bring, it would have been highly plausible that such savings would have come from the original social welfare reform that the government started to implement at the time when the Finns were still involved. Now, however, the situation changed very radically when, in practice, the coalition, through the government crisis, forced itself to introduce this so-called freedom of choice, in other words, in Finnish, the money laundering of social enterprises, and thus had to go into these artificial dismantlings of existing integrations in order to enable this freedom of choice and money to be made possible. Now, in this situation, there is certainly reason to doubt whether the social security reform will achieve either these planned savings or the desired improvement in services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u250	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, who has already left Parliament, or at least in plenary session,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-14-ps-6.u254	Mr President! I still have to say, when it comes to fiscal policy, that when the Economic Policy Review Council considered that the government's policy on fiscal policy was too loose, I wonder in the sense that they had previously considered it uncertain that the government would reach the employment rate target of 72%. Now that it appears that it will be achieved within the time limit, they no longer mentioned it, but then raised the point that they felt that fiscal policy was too loose. Of course, this is where different economic policy schools are likely to meet. But I personally believe that, in this situation, where Finland has been financially, it is well founded that it is precisely through tax reductions, with the emphasis on low and middle incomes, that the government has acted in a significant way, with about EUR 1.5 billion. It has certainly helped to keep domestic demand at a good level, and then the world economy and stronger exports have helped. I even believe that tax reductions can still be made if necessary, if the government considers that it will continue to boost this domestic demand. But I do wonder that the Economic Policy Review Council did not, however, point out that this employment rate target will be achieved, which they had previously considered to be so uncertain.
