ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u1	The only item to be discussed is Day 2 issue, the Government communication to Parliament on the extension of the term of the State guarantee for the provision of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF). The debate on the communication ended at the plenary session on 13 November 2018. In the debate, Mr Kankaanniemi, supported by Ville Tavio, supported by Kari Uotila Paavo Arhinmäki and supported by Ms Riitta Mäkinen, have tabled proposals for a motion of censure on the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u2	Mr Uotila's proposal is put to the vote against Mr Kankaanniemi's proposal, then against Pia Viitanen's proposal. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u3	The third item in the order of business is the debate on the alternative budget for 2019 for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. This item also presents the alternative budgets of the Finnish Parliament Group, the Green Parliament Group, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, the Swedish Parliament Group and the Christian Democratic Parliament Group. After the presentations of the alternative budgets — 7 minutes for each parliamentary group — Mr Petteri Orpo, Minister for Finance, 7 minutes. After the debate, the debate will continue at a rapid pace, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, the debate is also allowed on the 4th to 34th agenda. on the point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u4	Mr President! I hope that today we will be discussing the future of Finns and the economic policy that affects the everyday lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u13	Mr President! Let us remember what infantry general Adolf Ehrnrooth said: “Finland is a good country. It's the best thing for us Finns. It is a country worthy of defence, and its only defender is the Finnish people.” The basic Finnish budget option is also based on ensuring the well-being and fairness of its own country and people. The national interest is always the starting point of Finnish politics. We offer work, security and justice. No one is left alone either. Our main policy options are to put an end to government debt, to promote economic growth, to protect and preserve national property for the next generations, and to ensure a fair distribution of money and its fair distribution. True Finns would invest in security, reduce taxation and make living and moving cheaper. We would also make Finland the least attractive to disadvantaged migration in the Nordic countries. Mr President! In Finland, the economy has been commendable and employment has increased — good. Despite the growth, the government is taking on a new debt of 1.4 billion. It is, by the way, the same amount that Finland spends on asylum and integration costs alone in a few years. Think of it: the whole amount of debt next year. The Finns of Peru want to put an end to government debt. The starting point should be that only what is is shared, and no glutton debt is taken for future generations. While sharing what is there, efforts must be made to grow the sack that is being distributed in order to have more to share. This means promoting productive Finnish work and entrepreneurship. As early as next year, the Finns would take some EUR 173 million less debt than the government, and at the same time we would give more to Finns. Someone's asking how it's possible. I'll tell you what. In basic Finnish politics, hundreds of millions would be saved, among other things, from the costs of bad immigration and wind power subsidies. In addition, hundreds of millions less development aid would be paid from the state treasury as early as next year when we move on to the development aid model developed by the Finns on the basis of voluntary support and specifically grass-roots assistance. As I said earlier, Finns would spend much less money than the government, but there would still be much more for Finns. Our option includes savings of EUR 1.4 billion, but these savings are not out of the pockets of a regular worker, entrepreneur, pensioners, schoolchildren, family or unemployed. Basic Finnish politics are justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u22	Mr President! Finland is a country that combines a harsh climate, a hard history, a strong sense of justice and a well-developed welfare state. We are a prosperous country with both the ability to care for the weaker and the desire to improve security around it. We are at the top of the world in terms of human development. That is where we have come by working together, offering equal opportunities to live for every child and taking care of our common environment. The state budget is one of the most important tools for developing the welfare society, improving the quality of education and tackling threats to the environment. Unfortunately, the government's budget proposal leaves much room for improvement here. The Greens' alternative budget will build the future through three large entities: it will protect the climate, invest in education and combat poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u25	Mr President! On Monday we received new valuable information about the state of the Finnish welfare state. The National Institute for Health and Welfare published recent results from a comprehensive study that has followed Finns born in 87 and 97 from childhood to adulthood. The first group was born in Finland during the recession, the latter one grew up in the country that suffered the recession. Nevertheless, the proportion of families in need of income support had remained almost at the same level. The share of families born in 97 was 36 per cent, and it was 38 per cent of families born ten years earlier. This study shows that although the majority of Finnish young people and families are doing well, poverty and poverty are building up. Often they are also passed on to the next generations. This cycle of poverty has not been broken, but parents’ limited education, psychiatric illness, poverty or changes in family circumstances increase the likelihood of children encountering the same thing themselves. The main idea of the welfare state is to balance differences in people's lives from different backgrounds and family backgrounds with a comprehensive education system, income transfers and welfare services. The aim is not only to provide equal opportunities, but to achieve equality, in which the support of society is also borne in the event of adversity in life. These age-group studies show that the welfare state has failed in its most important task of breaking the cycle of poverty. Finland has become a welfare state for well-being people. How did this happen? It's not that we didn't know what to do. We know that we must support families with children, invest in early childhood education and ensure that as many as possible receive at least secondary education. Yet many governments have done otherwise. Why? Because too often other things have been more important to too many people who hold power — and so have they to this government. The tax cuts of nearly EUR 2 billion have been more important to you than stopping cutting off all low incomes. You did not even manage to cut back on business subsidies by EUR, but you managed to cut a billion from training. Mr President! The alternative budget of the Left Alliance shows what matters are most important to us. They are equality, education and the environment. We are investing more than one billion in strengthening social security, in higher levels of study aid, unemployment benefit and small pensions, and in strengthening basic health care and public welfare services. We will finance these reforms by tightening taxes on wealth and dividends, curbing aggressive tax planning and canceling the Kiki workers' increases in payments and reducing subsidies that are harmful to the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u30	Ärade talman, Mr President! SFP vill i vår alternativa budget visa att det går att föra en ansvarsful ekonomisk politiik utan massiva och korsiktiga nedskärningar i utbildning, forskning, studytöd eller bistånd. Vi vill bygga ett framgångsrikt Finland. Vi vill också visa att det genom omrioriteringar är öjligt att genomföra nödvändiga reformer. SFP:s familijepolitiska helhetsreform är en stor investing i en battre framtid. SFP vill att Finland ska bli världens mest barnvänliga land.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u31	Mr President! The alternative budget of the KD-Parliament Group is a balanced proposal with a number of suggestions for improvements to the Government proposal. We have not forgotten the disadvantaged, but we are proposing concrete measures to improve the position of families with children, the sick and the elderly. We also invest in education, research and development, employment, renewable energy and safety. We are also proposing a reduction in the value added tax on healthy foods and, at the same time, stricter taxation on unhealthy products. Our option would build a more humane and sustainable Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u32	Madam President! We in politics thank each other too rarely. I believe that all colleagues in the opposition now deserve to be commended for the work that has been done. These shadow budgets have been carefully drawn up, the proposals are well-founded and there is a lot of work behind them. A lot of good things have been listed. However, we cannot agree with everything, but the debate on the options is very welcome. And I hope that we will have this debate in a constructive spirit and respect for each other. Mr President! We have often discussed in this Chamber who to thank for economic growth and employment. Today there are nearly 120,000 more people working than at the beginning of the reign. I rejoice over every father and mother, man and woman, young and older, who has received work. It can be said with certainty that the growth in employment is guaranteed by companies as well as by people who work and want to work. So, thanks belong to them. This week, the Institute for Economic Research published a report stating that about half of the employment growth is due to government reforms — that is, more than 50,000 jobs in government reforms. Of course, our economy has also been fed by the international upswing. Above all, however, we should now discuss the choices that we need to make in order to make Finland a good place to live, live and try in the future as well, how we take care of the baby to seniors that the services play. Mr President! Now that we are dealing here with expenditure increases and tax increases, it is indeed important to look to the future. I want Finland to be a country in which everyone can trust that it will be well for him, that there is a chance for everyone to do and succeed and to succeed, but the weaker one will be taken care of. That is why we need a high employment rate of at least 75% in the 20s in order to finance important services such as day care centres, education, services for the elderly. That is why we need to focus on employment. The future of Finnish well-being lies at work. Work is also most effective in combating poverty and inequality. The opposition's shadow budgets respond relatively poorly to these key challenges in Finland. According to the Ministry of Finance’s official assessment, the impact of alternative budgets on growth and employment will be very limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u48	Thank you. — Prime Minister Sipilä, up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u49	Mr President! I would also like to thank the parliamentary groups, the opposition groups, for presenting the options. You've done a very careful job. It has not been an easy task to put the Finnish economy in order and to correct the employment situation. Four years ago, our starting point for the reign was difficult. Now Finland's direction has been reversed into a growth path, competitiveness has been brought to fruition through the competitiveness pact. Finland’s economy is already growing at nearly 3 per cent per year for the second year. In two years, the number of long-term unemployed has decreased by 50,000 — that is, 50,000 people have been raised from poverty. I am also pleased that youth unemployment has fallen by 5 percentage points and that 115,000 people have been given a job. I am also pleased that these jobs have been created evenly throughout Finland. The government's active employment policy has produced results. But still the most unpartisan are the unemployed. That is why the employment policy must continue. Government debt has also been broken. The year-on-year rate of debt was EUR 6 billion per year. Next year, net borrowing needs will be 1.8 billion and public finances will be broadly balanced. Under no circumstances do we want to leave excessive debt to the young generation. Mr President! Even the opposition's budget proposals have now been made in a good economic and employment situation. However, we would not be in these employment figures if we had followed the opposition's line throughout the last parliamentary term. To this end, it has to be said that on some issues, for example, KD and RKP have made a positive exception. According to Etla's recent estimate, half of the increase in over 100,000 jobs during the government term is due to political decisions. The government line has been the line of work and enterprise, and it now bears fruit. Mr President! There's a lot of good in the opposition's budget presentations. For example, there are concerns about the exclusion of young people in the alternative budgets of the KD and Social Democrats. We will certainly share this concern very widely in this Chamber. The issue of exclusion must be addressed at an early stage. One of the major projects of this government has been the programme to change child and family services. It tries to help families even before the problems get worse and, for example, it is necessary to take care of them. Families need help on time and on a low threshold. Mr President! The elections weigh the political lines of the parties that we are discussing today. There's no room for irresponsibility. There has also been such irresponsibility in the opposition's speeches that I cannot ignore. The so-called President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rinte, is an example of an easy promise that would cost EUR 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u52	Thank you. - And now to the debate on the debate. I would ask all those who want to participate to press the V button and stand up. Let's start with the ones who gave the presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u53	Mr President! Minister Orpo, the leading ideas of the SDP's tax policy are to expand the tax base, with low tax rates being taxed in the future. Where it is taxed, it will be ensured that it benefits economic growth and employment, and it will be taxed where it is least harmful. My question, Mr Orpo, is this: do you consider the SDP's withholding tax model to be genuinely unjustified for those recipients of dividends who currently pay zero taxes mainly from abroad? That is EUR 400 million as part of our tax policy. Prime Minister Sipilä, I say to you that this pensioner's promise by the SDP means that more than 55,000 people will rise from retirement poverty. It's a choice of values. We will have money for it if we want the values to be respected in the right way. I would also like to say to you that this use of Sitra's and the Bank of Finland's balance sheet, balance sheets for work, in practice means that there is no need to sell Neste,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u54	Mr President! Thank you for not making any barks from the ministers, at least for the alternative budget of the Finns, so I am going to move in a positive way. I would like to point out that there were no tax increases in the alternative budget of the Finns-based, but specific tax reductions specifically for problems and improvements in business and employment. In fact, I drew attention to the fact that the Prime Minister praised the alternative budgets of the KD and the RKP that there were tax evasions, too. So do you agree that, among other things, consumer taxes should be tightened up, as the RKP suggests? It would be interesting to hear. The Prime Minister said that the climate has appeared in all budgets, and I would have asked you how you feel about the idea of a climate customs in Europe that it should curb the introduction of products that do not respect environmental values in Europe and Finland. This would also generate revenue for environmental protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u55	Mr President! Mr Orpo, the beginning of your speech was better than the end of it, because at the beginning you said that there should be a constructive, good debate. I'm trying to do it for myself now. The Greens' alternative budget will raise more than 26,000 people out of poverty. This is an important issue in this situation, where we talk about, among other things, the level of basic daily allowance for the unemployed and the support of the poorest and most vulnerable people. But I agree with you that we should bring about a fundamental security reform that at the same time encourages all the work to be carried out, and this is certainly one of the most important challenges for the next government. The Greens have presented their own basic income model. I would also have raised the issue of gender equality, family leave reform, in general investment in knowledge, investment in new technologies. All of this creates new jobs and creates new jobs in Finland. In this sense, the green alternative budget is realistic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u56	Mr President! The work done by the information service is extremely valuable, but at the same time it would be good to be aware of what is being assessed, for example, when calculating these dynamic effects on employment. According to this information service’s calculation formula, all investments in social security reduce incentives to work and therefore the number of jobs is calculated as a minus sign. So if this logic were to completely abolish Finnish social security, we would have an alternative budget that would look really good from the point of view of employment figures alone. Similarly, it is estimated that investment in education and skills will not bring any additional employment and jobs. What does Minister Orpo and Minister think? Is this the kind of estimate that the lizards are for? Is this in line with the Government's view that investing in education and skills would not be exactly the kind of policy that should be pursued in a country such as Finland from the point of view of equality as well as employment, and which also creates a much more sustainable basis for employment and business than these continuing massive tax cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u57	Värderade fru talman! Det som fattas i regeringens politik är jämställdhetsglasögonen. Svenska folkpartiet är i sin skuggbudget väldigt noga med att försöka få till stånd ett mer jämställt Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u58	Mr President! Before this opportunity, I extended my own budget paragraphs to both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, and it was nice to see that you had quoted our constructive proposal. In our opinion, we have made very precise and rigorous calculations. It's not made with airstrips, and there's nothing stupid about it. We have not borrowed money, neither from the Bank of Finland nor from Sitra, but we have tried to find solutions in which way our options would be compatible. But I will return to this speech when Minister Orpo also pointed out that Finland must be reformed. The fact is that if the birth rates do not rise, we will be in a very serious situation as to how Finland will be reformed, and I would like to ask: how will the government now tackle this challenge? In its own alternative budget, KD has tried to put forward a number of measures, and we would like to hear how the government responds to this challenge that Finland could actually be reformed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u59	Mr President! Contrary to what Minister Orpo said, the option of the SDP will increase employment compared to the government option. Mr President! Contrary to what Minister Orpo said, this option of ours is not lacking in courage. We would have the courage to start a family leave reform right away. This government did not have the courage to decide. We would have the courage to combat the exclusion of young people by extending compulsory education to secondary level immediately, because whether we get young people into education and, consequently, longer careers is a crucial question as to how we will manage in the future. We would have the courage to launch a social security reform, but, Mr President, there is also a need for heart. And that brings us here to taxation: justice is needed, and we have now shown that by involving the financial sector and including foreign large investors who are now exempt from taxes on listed shares in the stock market, at least a little bit of this effort, as we have suggested, for the small family of nurses and builders with children in day care, it could increase by up to 200 euros a month. So there's courage and heart, but is the government good enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u60	Mr President! Yes, family leave reform is needed, but it must be done with the heart that it is an improvement for families and not a weakening. When I look at the model of the SDP, what, for example, is the fate of child home care support? It doesn't look good. This would lead to a loss of family choice in many cases, and it seems to be a direct cut in the livelihood of many families. We in the centre want a reform of family leave, but it must be done from the point of view of families and children. It has to be better than the current model. And it's gonna take a little money. You can't do it in a cost-neutral way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u63	Mr President! It is very good that this situation of small entrepreneurs has come to light. If you look at the impact assessment of our options, you will see from there that half of entrepreneurs actually get more than the government option. And who exactly is there? It's just small businessmen. Under the SDP option, small entrepreneurs will have more money for growth than the government offers. And as far as the reform of family leave is concerned, Mrs Kaikkonen, you said that the reform of family leave should be an improvement. Well, why were you preparing bad models? There is a family minister in the city centre who is responsible for this preparation. If we want a better family leave model for Finnish families, then, Mr Centre, Mr Government, why did you prepare bad models?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u64	Mr President! The need for family leave reform was recognised, but it was not possible, in our opinion, to carry out a better reform in a cost-neutral way, and you again presented a cost-neutral model here. We assume that we need to invest more in families. We assume that this will be on the next government's agenda, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u65	Mr President! According to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, the reform of the demarine budget would discipline entrepreneurial families by EUR 650 million next year, that is, so much for the taxation of entrepreneurs. Representative Rinne, the responsible party does not plan permanent expenditure increases and election promises on one-off incomes. The SDP would have much to learn about the traditional wisdom of rural areas, and one is that seed potatoes should not be eaten. In other words, the capital of Sitra, the Finnish Foundation for Independence, is spent annually on the future investments of Finnish children, young people, social work, climate, education, the environment that you are calling for in this own budget — future investments. You don't want to eat those seed potatoes. It is worth finally learning here that every year it is not brought here. And in six months, the Mayan centenary of Rinte has shrunk to 30 euros. If the same pace continues until spring, the pensioners will soon be on the pay side after the election, and that is what this will lead to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u66	Mr President! There are differences between the parties, indeed. The Finns of Finland come first Finnish work and enterprise and after that always Finnish first. Returning the child allowance is in our alternative budget. Furthermore, we do not want to make it difficult to live in rural areas, such as the centre and other parties. The excessive cost of driving makes living in rural areas more difficult. We want to reduce travel and also the cost of industry. It is good to have a little sense of proportionality that, when Olkiluoto 3 starts, for example, cuts emissions to the same extent as the whole of Finland's traffic, if compared to the fact that the same energy would be produced with coal. We should make a climate policy that does not undermine the ability of Finnish industry to function. Is the government prepared to influence the EU to have climate duties because the Finns of Finland really want to improve the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u67	Mr President! The fight against climate change is indeed our common challenge, and it is good that these alternative budgets have made it very clear. We Greens want Finland to be carbon neutral by 2030. Just as the Minister of Finance said, taxation is a good instrument for combating climate change. I therefore wonder that there are still substantial tax reductions for fossils, and we would like to reduce them. Furthermore, we know that a mere transition to renewables, a mere circular economy, is not the solution. There is also a need to curb over-consumption and moderate consumption. That's why I'd ask: We have proposed both air tax and plastic tax here. How do these seem, and could the government take these on its own program?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u68	Mr President! What is really needed is a humane and fair policy. The Left Alliance genuinely wants to reduce the differences in well-being and health. We take seriously the fact that the large stumbling blocks of Finnish, high-quality health care are access to treatment and customer fees, and that is why the left-wing federation is proposing a better treatment guarantee. We suggest that emergency treatment is immediately available and, in the case of an emergency, treatment is available within a week. It is essential to recruit more doctors and nurses in the public sector for very demanding basic health care tasks. Another stumbling block is customer fees, which the Left Alliance wants to give up altogether. Basic health care is not only cost-effective but also human. People need free access to treatment. There is no point in charging basic health care, doctors and nurses for fees that people cannot afford. It shifts the focus of treatment
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u69	Mr President! These shadow budgets of the opposition — because they really are only a shadow of the government’s budget — would be more base if you, too, had had to negotiate on the opposition’s side the objectives, the amounts, the investments you have, as the government must. The government budget is not the budget of any individual parliamentary group or party, but the result of cooperation. [ Hustles from the left] Here came the demari's tax cuts. It is certainly true that the difference between blue and socialist, blue and red is that we want to reduce income tax by EUR 1.4 billion — a very significant amount. As far as the green alternative budget is concerned, the only winner is the moustache hipster with the steering wheel of Kallio, and all the rest are losers. For motorists, 300 million more costs, plus air tax. When it did not work in Sweden, why would it work better in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u70	Värderade fru talman! I SFP:s förslag vill vi förbättra sysselsättningen. Vi gör det bland give med en skatereform där vi sänker skatten på arbete och får dynamiska effekter, men vi gör det dessutom på det sättet att vi har en hel del sociala överföringar, som riksdagens utredningstjänst har konstat att innebär att alla tiio inkomstklasser kommenter att få battre disponibla inkomster etter den kattereformen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u71	Madam President! The alternative budget of the Christian Democrats is based on our desire for a more humane and sustainable Finland. Our investments are from families with children, the elderly, education and safety. A recent study by the Municipal Research Foundation shows that citizens are reasonably satisfied with public services, all services except those of the elderly. The Christian Democrats are proposing in their own option that we have to have 1,000 new carers. We need better and better quality care for the elderly. Many aged people are currently thinking about how to cope with economic challenges, when pension indices have been frozen, cut off, and, on the other hand, the share of medical expenses has been constantly increased. Mr Government, as the economy grows as we are experiencing a boom, how can we improve the life situation of those who have actually been building?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u72	Then the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u73	Thank you, Madam Speaker! To raise the employment rate to 75% of the current 72, a strong employment and economic policy such as that currently exists is needed. Here we have now heard, for example, about the alternative budget for the SDP, which has a huge amount of good expenditure increases — for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u76	Mr President! My group has not made an alternative budget of its own. I will take this opportunity to say a few words about the core issue of the Finnish economy, Finland's membership of the euro area. Finland has suffered enormously from this, as the comparison with Sweden shows. If Finland's economic growth had been as rapid as in Sweden over the last ten years, our national economy would now be EUR 50 billion larger, the state and municipalities would have around 25 billion more at their disposal. All your wishes could be fulfilled if we had stayed outside the euro area. Still next year, the government will be in debt at a high rate. In fact, more than 5% of government expenditure is covered by additional debt. A new crisis in the euro area is coming. Finland suffers more from it than others and has to support other countries in crisis with debt money again. Finland must try to get rid of the euro area as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u77	Next, Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u78	Thank you, Speaker! After all, the objective of alternative budgets is to raise issues and phenomena to the debate, not necessarily to be quite perfect. We are proposing here that phenomena-based budgeting should be included in the forthcoming government programme, and in fact we should have a phenomena-based government programme and choose, for example, five phenomena that we are going to tackle during the coming government. They could be climate change, sustainable development, and could be assisted by climate customs and revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u79	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki's constructive speech rightly underlines that unfortunately Minister Orpo forgot his own promise to be constructive in less than a minute. Known arrogance came up and the SDP model made claims that were not true. Contrary to what he claimed, the SDP reduces the tax burden on labour and lowers more than the government. Every low- and medium-income employee, a pensioner benefits more than the government budget. The SDP model benefits up to EUR 4700 per month. We take better care of the middle class than the Coalition Party. And we take better care of small entrepreneurs, people like me, because the SDP is traditionally a party of shoemakers and tailors. And contrary to his claim, the option of the SDP will increase employment by 7,000 persons compared to the government model. We are making the major reforms that this government did not do. We prove that the budget can be fair and, at the same time, financially responsible. There will now be a full turn to cut training and weaken skills, where we will invest 600 million, and in basic services almost equal investment, a thousand pairs of doctors and nurses in basic health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u80	The section presidents of the Committee on Finance will then be elected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u81	Mr President! First of all, I would like to mention to that comment by Elo that when the Finns of Finland propose the detention of those who have received a negative asylum decision, we are seeking, above all, to increase the security of Finland. If we have about 400 people here on the loose who are linked to terrorism and are not able to get them out of the country, they would at least be detained. Secondly, it must be understood that security costs, and to that, the Finns are increasing the budget, such as the police and the Border Guard and many other activities. The goal of the Finns Party is to put an end to harmful immigration altogether. The road to Finland cannot be the road to Sweden. In Sweden, many women live an unsafe life. In many places, even at night, they don't dare to move anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u84	Mr Viitanen and then the Prime Minister's timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u85	Mr President! When we talk here about these reforms, what I see as really important in the option of the SDP is that we want to invest in children and young people, for example, so that everyone has the right to engage. In line with the Icelandic model, we would introduce a Finnish model that is related to this. Similarly, we would make a good reform of the fact that all young people are offered a free second level. A very important, very important priority, and these look to the future. President! I have to say to this point, however, when I listen to this debate, that it is indeed a very cold line for Prime Minister Sipilä's government and for the government parties. While you're here, Mr. Chairman. Rinne is trying to speak on behalf of pensioners, and we are immediately told that we are out of money, and a little underestimated by this initiative, which is very important. It is true that pensioners have income problems. Our option is to deal with these in a concrete way — not just in weekend speeches, but in such anti-poverty packages, and then in the same way as the government parties do, we cut pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u87	Madam President! Representative Rinne, you have publicly taken a stand on fellings coming to Finland. When leading politicians take a stand on forest policy and assess the number of fellings, both Finnish and international investors are very sensitive to hear that what is the future line of Finnish forestry policy. It will be a very serious consequence if we start by reducing the number of fellings we have seen in our future forestry policy programme by politicians. The Finnpulp factory is currently being planned in Kuopio. It is the most modern coniferous pulp mill in Europe. I wonder what these great investors will think when they are not sure whether they can hack trees in the environment? How do you justify your own forestry policy policy, Mr. Rinne?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u88	Excuse me, the Prime Minister's turn was now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u89	Mr President! Entrepreneurial deduction here has come up many times. In 2017, 344,000 customers received it, and the majority of them, about 80 per cent, were earning less than EUR 55000. 35 per cent of these were ordinary Finnish small entrepreneurs earning less than EUR 25,000. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u94	The Presidents of the sections present, who have not yet received the floor, shall then proceed with the debate. — So Juhantalo next, Section for Employment and the Economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u95	Mr President! Over the years, it has been observed that, as the elections approach, the alternative budgets grow so that every stone and stump is dug up and sought to find someone good, and that is usually an unrealistic policy that is now being led here by the SDP. When you compare these words with those of the Prime Minister and Minister Orpo, you are convinced that the government's line is entirely correct. In terms of economic policy, the relationship between employment and unemployment is a serious issue today, and we need to find 270,000 jobs. With 110,000 jobs out there, we have a major problem in this country as to how to get more work. When 1% of unemployment is eliminated, it will bring EUR 1.4 billion to public finances, and in this proportion it can be seen how important these increases in employment numbers are. That's the right line for the government to take here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u96	Mr President! The starting point for Finns is that work and enterprise must first get something to share and then be divided, as Mr Meri said. In this respect, we have a lot of measures in this alternative budget that are not budgetary issues but substantive legislative and reform issues, important issues. Then those items that need to be funded are education. We have a training package here and the related system reforms. Cheap housing: Housing applies to all of us. We've got 7,000 homeless people. We've got to get them an apartment, too. The basic security that is important for my own section must be improved. It has been mentioned here that we have a generation that has built up this prosperity and lives in a very weak position. This is forgotten from the government budget. That is what we want to invest in. And the most important thing for the whole population is security, and a strong investment in it is also in the Finnish True Finns package.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u97	Now all the Presidents of the Chambers present have spoken. Let us now go to the members of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u98	Madam President! Representative Eestilä would have said about felling that Finnish forest management is a world leader and the Finnish forest industry has done a lot to curb emissions and improve raw material efficiency. The current level of felling is not too much, and felling can be increased if, for example, the carbon sinks of agricultural land are strengthened. According to experts, this is entirely possible, and this must also be pursued with determination. The supply of raw materials for existing and new forest industry projects must be secured, and fortunately we have many projects in Finland. You mentioned Finnpulp, and after the wars in the north we also have forests coming to the end of the harvest age, and there is also Boreal Bioref, which would employ up to 2,700 employees during the construction period, as well as Metsä Fibre, a member of the Metsä Group. Of course, it is hoped that as many of these as possible will start to move, and I believe that we, with good forest management and the protection of carbon sinks, will also be able to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u99	Madam President! This debate examines the interests and shortcomings of the opposition's alternative budgets and highlights the advantages of the government's budget proposals. It is perhaps good to note the weak points in the government's draft budgets. Unfortunately, the state of Finland at the end of this reign is that climate policy lags behind targets, learning outcomes fall and the situation of the poor has deteriorated further. The Government is not blackmailing climate policy as a result of the IPCC report. On the other hand, the government has cut some EUR 900 million from education. The government has continued the cuts in social security, even next year, even though the economy is growing and there is already something to be shared. And according to recent impact assessments, the government's economic policy has also undermined gender equality. I would like to point out these weaknesses here because I would like to ask: what corrections are you going to make to these shortcomings in your financial forecasts for next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u100	Mr President! I asked to speak at the time when the situation of SMEs was discussed. The operating conditions of SMEs must be improved in Finland, their internationalisation must be promoted. There are more effective measures than entrepreneurial deductions. Entrepreneurial deduction does not meet all the key criteria for good business support. In this alternative budget, we have proposed raising the VAT threshold, tax incentives for hiring the first employee, the introduction of an employment incentive and support for access to international markets and the value chain for SMEs in many ways. They are more effective measures than are now much discussed in entrepreneurship reduction. I would like someone from the government parties to ask us what we are going to spend this 200 million on our budget on combating the shadow economy. I'd love to answer that in a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u101	Madam President! Minister of Finance Orpo, you were hoping for reforms from the opposition. At least the alternative budget of the Left Alliance includes many reforms: tax reform, family leave reform, social security reform, business support reform and so on. The same applies to other opposition groups. The question is, in fact, how thick a book comes from your reforms during this parliamentary term. I don't think it's gonna be the thickest book in the world. I think it's gonna be the thinst book in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u104	Madam President! It is not news that the demos are tightening the taxation of entrepreneurs and making unwarranted promises to pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u107	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz may have missed my earlier speech, but I referred to Mr Orpo's concerns. The Greens are raising more than 26,000 people out of poverty through this budget proposal, including by increasing the basic daily allowance for the unemployed — a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u112	Madam President! Mr Haavisto, I know where the calculations for the information service come from, and they are the same calculations, and that is the same information service you always praise. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto will speak here for a few months, where he praises how the Parliamentary Information Service has been able to calculate the consequences of the government's actions. Similarly, you, the Greens, always insist in the front line that the impact assessments made by the government are not sufficient. Now you are proposing a shadow budget in which the number of unemployed people is increasing — not decreasing but increasing — by 21,000, and when I ask why you are, you are explaining something about the different forms of income transfer. That's not an answer. Tell me why you are proposing a shadow budget here now, with an increase in the number of unemployed by 21,000. What will this increase in the number of unemployed achieve? And when you talk about poverty, is it not the worst factor that creates poverty that increases the number of unemployed people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u113	Mr Zyskowicz, I feel that you are not really concerned about the increase in the number of poor people, the situation that the poor families in Finland currently have.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u117	Let us take Mr Andersson and Mr Rinne, and then let us take briefly the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u118	Mr President! Once again, I say to Mr Zyskowicz what I said earlier: the work done by the information service is extremely valuable and important. Similarly, attention should be paid to what will be assessed when these assessments are made. For alternative budgets, the impact on employment has been estimated from the perspective of reductions in income tax, changes in it, and changes in social security. In practice, the formula goes so that it is estimated that all reductions in income tax will increase the number of employed persons and that all investments in social security will reduce the number of employed persons. This means that for those parties that have proposed substantial improvements to social security in order to reduce poverty, the number of people employed seems to be a negative sign. But I ask, Mr Zyskowicz: Do you think the world is this simple? Do you agree with the logic of the data service calculations that investment in education and training is not relevant from the point of view of improving employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u119	Mr President! Minister Orpo, it is important to talk about climate change, education, the family leave system, all those things that prepare Finnish society in a sustainable way for the 2030s and put them in motion. But it is just as important to talk about the status of pensioners. We have over 100,000 pensioners who have worked long hours and built Finnish society, and yes these people deserve respect in the Finnish debate. I am truly sorry that you, as a representative of the government, are presenting a very cold policy to these people, a very cold and arrogant policy. I was sorry to hear Mr Jokinen's views on the future of pensioners. A very cold and arrogant policy from the assembly, that is what I would like to say. Prime Minister Sipilä said that this undivided money could now be used in some way for the good presentations and ideas to come here. I ask you, Minister Orpo: could this situation for pensioners be corrected together from now on?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u120	Then there's Secretary Orphan. This is where questions came to a large extent during the debate, and I will give you 5 minutes and then to Minister Saarikko 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u121	Madam President! I regret to say that the signatory or the government or the popular movement I represent would not care about the people who have been building Finland. Mr Rinne, we are leaving on a responsible basis, on a sustainable basis. The best way to take care of older people, to take care of the services of senior citizens, to take care of a secure society is for us to take care of employment and the balance of public finances. Unfortunately, your promises — all the best on all sides — mean that public expenditure will go up. You will have to increase taxation from all sides in order to finance this equation, which means that employment and growth will be cut short. This equation doesn't work. We must look to the future: we have a promise of hundreds of billions of pensions, we have a promise of hundreds of billions of service in this country, and we cannot destroy it with irresponsible policies, but we must take care of it with high levels of employment, dynamic society and growth. [Left: Tax revenue!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u126	And then Minister Saarikko, three minutes. After that, the debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u127	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the Social Democrats for bringing the Icelandic model into the Finnish debate on combating the exclusion of young people. It is very good that we dare to look beyond Finland’s borders — although in many ways we are an excellent country — in matters where we find that someone is doing something better than us. We have all shared common concern about the infant phase and family leave. But attention to those critical years in secondary school, in the first years of secondary school, has proved to be an essential change in the welfare of young people in Iceland. Most importantly, the implementation of its model at national level is not even automatically a budgetary issue, but a question of common will in the municipalities and at state level. I am happy to continue the debate with all parties on this subject, where we are thinking of supporting families, especially in the middle and early years of youth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u130	And then the debate goes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u131	Mr President! Knowledge is the main ingredient in creating future growth. High-quality education, a trained population and proper investment in research, product development and innovation are key. We have taken these things for granted in Finland until now, but for the first time we are in a situation where the level of education of future generations threatens to be lower than in the past. Without a secondary degree, almost 15 per cent of the age group is left behind, and at the same time, only less than half of those who depend on primary education alone are employed. The situation is extremely worrying, as the transformation of working life and international competition, including through technological change and digitalisation, require us to have better skills at all levels of education. Competence must be Finland's future theme, the most important of them, because it creates the conditions for all our well-being. The SDP has this knowledge path, which has already been discussed here, but it is quite difficult to understand why the Sipilä Government does not seem to be on the same track with us. I'd love to have some answers for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u132	President! Recently, there has been a lot of discussion about free secondary education. The Group of the Greens and the Left estimates that it costs about 80 million, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities estimates it to be hundreds of millions, but the Social Democrats are building this for 20 million, including the extension of compulsory education. This feels very special. And in this context, I cannot fail to say that when Mr Andersson raised the lower position of certain craftsmen, shoemakers and bicycle repairers, that last season, when you were in the government, you drove this discount away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u133	Mr President! There were questions about the government's ideas for improving education policy. The presentation of the Centre Party is, among other things, an educational right. For the period after basic education, we propose raising the deadline for compulsory education from the present 17 to the age of 18. In addition to the current comprehensive school syllabus, a new criterion would be the requirement for further study qualifications. A young person who dropped out of studies would be assigned to liberal education work, tenth grade, workshop activities or, for example, preparatory education. And as far as the reform of family leave is concerned, it has been clarified on several occasions that women who run out of home care support do not have a job waiting for them. In other words, this family leave reform also means that the labour market position of women needs to be improved through education and training if a sensible family leave reform is to be desired.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u134	Mr President! It is a great thing that Minister Orpo says that at least in the reform of family leave and social reform there is a common ambition for the future. There are important future investments that must be mobilised in order to make a responsible policy for future generations. The same applies to the extension of compulsory education, free of charge in the second stage. It also applies to the contributions that must be made to science, to the restoration of the glory of research. There is a need for strong basic funding, which must be taken forward. There will probably be consensus on these issues between many parties in the future, but let us talk about those pensioners, Minister Orpo. You did not reply just now to the question of the possibility of using this unused reserve to remedy the situation of pensioners. It is clear that raising the employment rate is important, but not against these, the poor pensioners and the employment rate. We have to fix the livelihoods of these poor pensioners. Be human. Don't be arrogant.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u135	Madam President! It is good to hear that the present government too would like to reform the family-free. However, it is quite incredible that you have now had four years, but that did not happen. And then the question arises why it was not born. Now we have seen that the blue ministers are shining by their absence. It is then a question of whether there have been problems within the government, since both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance have called for family leave reform. That's why I'm asking: what's the matter, and where have the glasses of equality in this government been? Did they stay in the trunk somewhere, too, or where did they stay? What is needed now is more equality in our society, and that is why the RKP wants to see a proper reform of family leave, which is also being invested in, and that it is also being done so as to increase the opportunity for all children who have reached the age of three to participate in free early education for 4 hours a day. What's with the family leave reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u136	Mr President! A little less, I'm afraid. — In 2013, Finland set itself the goal of being a global leader in cyber threats preparedness and management of the disruptions caused by cyber threats in 20 years. But how has this strategy been reflected in practice? How much money does the government propose for cybersecurity, research and authorities? Formal speeches and strategies are not enough if there is no will behind them — will and resources. In the future budget for the Greens, EUR 4 million of additional investment is proposed for the Cyber Security Centre. A small amount, especially compared to the need, but compared to the need, it is also welcome. Mr President! Digitalisation penetrates all sectors of our society, and we are completely dependent on the operation of these networks. It is therefore incomprehensible that we continue to neglect these resources year after year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u137	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä said that the work of the government produces fruit, and that is how it is. Today Danske Bank announced its forecast that dividends from Finnish listed companies will reach a new record of EUR 12900 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u142	Mr President! SDP President Rinne’s press statement: ‘At present, the missions of 72,4 million cubic metres per year are at such a level that if we want to preserve the earth, we cannot overtake - That's a pretty strong saying. In my opinion, this is intended to combat all new investments in the forest industry. According to the Natural Resources Centre, by 24 C.E. Finland will be able to beat 14 million and in 34 C.E. more than this year. In Northern Finland, where forests are about to shake, the corresponding figures are 4.5 and 5.9 million cubic metres. Due to the recent collapse of the forest industry, half of sustainable growth is currently being cut in the north. So I ask Antti Rinte: are projects in northern Finland to invest in the forest industry unrealistic?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u143	Congressman Lindtman or Congressman Rinne, who's gonna answer this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u144	Mr President! We have about one million hectares of Finnish forest in poor management or arable land that could be afforested. Let's put these into operation, make sure the carbon sink gets stronger. Let us put in place the tools the experts have told us so that the earth can be established for carbon sinks in the first place. This way we can catch up to the fact that we can hack the forest so much that we can secure the supply of raw materials. But this 1.5 - degree warming is an extremely important goal — not to go over it. It is the goal of determining the future of civilization, of mankind. For this reason, the SDP takes very seriously the opinions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which state that 2035 Finland must be carbon neutral and then carbon negative. The SDP aims both at work and at preventing global warming.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u145	Madam President! It is wonderful that you, the left and the Christian, are also on the line of the Finns. We have also suggested that the care guarantee should be urgent and that the elderly in particular should be given immediate treatment. We have also taken a legislative initiative on the creation of a law on hospice care — it is great that you also have it there — as well as on the supervision of carers. Mr President! Representative Ben Zyskowicz, you said that it is no news that the Finns are cutting development aid. Nor is it news that we are giving to the elderly. Congressman Elo, you mentioned the figure 651 million for detention. Let me ask you in the name of equality:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u146	Madam President! Some limit to a different kind of populism, whether from the left or from the right. [ArjaJuvosen-TimoHarakan-Hurry]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u147	Mr Eerola, Chairman of the Administrative Committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u148	Madam President! As far as these costs of detention are concerned, we must of course take into account the fact that these asylum seekers, who have received a decision to convert, are already paying here. In other words, if they were taken into custody, it would cost more than just a lock on the door.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u153	Madam President! With regard to the various shadow and alternative budgets of a particularly fragmented opposition, it is easy to say that the government has the right line to take. The government has succeeded in supporting entrepreneurship, strengthening public finances and improving employment. I understand that, on the left and the Greens' side, the information service in this Parliament is not exactly accurate. Unemployment is getting worse. It is a pretty bad thing to put in an alternative budget, without going into detail here. [Left: What about the SDP?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u154	Let us now take Mr Hassi and then Mr Lindtman and then Minister Orpo's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u155	Mr President! I shall now go into the details of these employment effects. Economists are aware of this and have also taught us politicians that at the heart of economic and employment development is investment in education and research. That is exactly what the Greens' alternative budget does, but the Parliament's Information Service has not assessed the impact on employment. Nor does it have the effect of financing free upper secondary school and vocational education in our alternative budget, free early childhood education for five-year-olds. Our investment in education improves the situation as to what it is at the moment that we have a large gap between the skills of the unemployed and the labour needs of companies. This is exactly what we are improving. And I would also like to remind all colleagues that our worst sustainability deficit is climate debt, and that is what we are correcting with our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u156	Mr President! I understand that it is a great opportunity for representatives of the government parties to be able to criticise the opposition once a year. But for some time now, our own nest should be clean before starting to criticise the SDP's alternative to these transport funds. When the government gives EUR 0 for this parliamentary agreement, at least the SDP has EUR 100 million — EUR 0. With the SDP, it is even 100 million closer to what has been agreed, and the next parliamentary term can continue, as Rossi said in the previous sitting. Mr President! The second news is that Mr Zyskowicz has now really begun to rely on these data service calculations. It would be nice to hear whether Mr Orpo agrees with Mr Zyskowicz that these calculations of the information service are reliable, and if so, can you recognise that the option of the SDP increases employment more than the government option. Do you and Zyskowicz disagree or agree? But, Mr President, what has not been answered: Prime Minister Sipilä promised that this unallocated money could be used. Would your hearts now warm up to those who built this land?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u157	And then, Minister Orpo, from the scene for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u158	Mr President! Yes, it is our joint task to combat pensioner poverty. Our joint task is to ensure that Finland is also a great country for older people, for senior citizens, services play, we are able to take care of Finland's ability to pay for pensions. Our difference in thinking is that, in this case too, we must first get those pension funds baked and, therefore, ensure the future ability to pay for pensions, and that is where we need the high level of employment. We have done what we have in the reserve: we have increased the guarantee pension three times. We have made sure that when the taxation of work has been reduced, the same has also been taken to pension income. We reduced the basic deduction, which also reduces the tax burden on a low-income pensioner. Above all, I believe that with a good policy and 120,000 new workers we have been able to guarantee the foundations of a welfare society — the foundations of a welfare society that will guarantee the ability to pay pensions for the coming decades and that we will be able to take care of our pensioners, to guarantee them a good life. It is absolutely clear that this is the case. The alternative cannot be to promise a hundred first and then say that it is thirty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u167	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I had a very simple, clear question: when the Prime Minister promised that this undivided money could be used for good ideas, do you think it would be a good idea for us to move out of this Parliament already this year to correct the income of these small pensioners, it will gradually be raised from poverty to a minimum of 55,000 pensioners? The SDP's alternative budgets have had this EUR 30 increase for two years in a row, and now 60 is already on the way. If you're just going with us, this is how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u170	Mr President! Mr Orpo, you spoke beautifully about pensioner poverty, but look at the decisions that this government has taken: you have cut off low-income pensioners. This government has operated on people's pensioners, and this government has also increased customer fees and responsibilities in a way that has hit the most low-income pensioners. How dare you talk here about the importance of combating pensioner poverty when practical decisions have been made like this? Similarly, the orphan here spoke of the importance of the foundations of the welfare state and society — that is, the Minister in the government, which has used the financial margin for tax reductions and has not used these funds for investment in education and research that is absolutely essential for the future. This has been your government's choice of values: to use the financial leeway that has been, in a way that does not strengthen the foundations of the welfare state but, on the contrary, undermines it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u171	Madam President! I have to thank the Greens for a very good, important matter. You raised the issue of mobility, and mobility is really important: the workforce needs to get around, people need to get around to the workplace and so away. The Government’s target is 250,000 electric cars by 2030 and, as it were, this target is aligned with the Greens’ objective of exempting electric cars from the car and vehicle tax. Now that you are presenting this for five years on a fixed-term basis, it is a tough move, and I would also like to hear the Minister of Finance's view on the impact this may have on the market, whether this is the right way to go, whether there are other ways. I understand that the Government is already doing some studies, for example, the budget already has, and last year was, on the support of charging plugs and on such matters. So now a little more insight into this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u172	Madam President! The Greens have a budget for the future, and quite rightly, as Mr Kiuru said, there are a lot of measures to curb the progress of climate change. There is also the promotion of nature conservation. We invest in children and young people, skills, education, the future. We return day care to each child. We will pay for a free second degree so that young people will find work in the future. The work of the future in this budget is truly central. We are proposing a basic income model, and we are also proposing that you replace your massive educational cuts with universities, research, vocational school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u176	Mr President! These transport issues are fairly close, and yes, I could make a long speech here about the fact that there are parties representing a rise in the fuel tax, there are parties representing a tax on flights and many others, but unfortunately I have not seen a commercial diesel term — it has not come up against anything — and there are very few cars on paper to reduce the tax on cars. So we could talk about these for a long time. I thank the plant for this cybersecurity issue. But what I am concerned about is the same thing that Mr Rossi raised. It is true that this government, too, was not able to meet the target of 300 million in the parliamentary group for next year, but that is not anywhere else, and now I am concerned about whether the parliamentary decisions that have arisen in this House will hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u177	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Jalonen, for looking for the truth, and first of all it must be said that it is true that the government is prepared to invest in the planning of transport projects. Yes, Turku hour train, 40 million — congratulations, Minister Orpo! [Corporate Group: Good, Government! ] In addition to that, when we look at it, just as Mr Jalonen said, if something is agreed in this house, would it not be good to stick to it: the SDP is even closer to the 300 million? Isn't that a good thing? But what will happen to the future government? It's going to have to put 500 million in there to keep these basic routes in shape somehow.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u178	Mr President! Improving employment must be at the heart of the decision-making process in the next parliamentary term. It is also capable of improving poverty, and that is an important issue. It is therefore amazing that the Social Democrats have set out to attack the very person who has created new jobs in Finland. Small entrepreneurs have captured this entrepreneurial reduction and it is also reflected in employment statistics. This is an amazing thing. The second wonderful thing I find is that, from the point of view of the vitality of the provinces today, when the forest industry plays a very central role, I cannot see the right direction for the social democrats as to whether we can increase the fellings or not. Mr Rinne mentioned earlier that we should have one million hectares under the forest, but you did not mention whether this would allow further felling, because we need more felling, so that we can also employ people there in industrial plants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u179	Mr President! He has just failed to respond to Minister Orpo in relation to these tax changes relating to the power plant tax and then to these changes in the refund of energy tax. The power plant tax is intended as a tax for those oversized feed-in tariffs linked to old wind power decisions. This has been in the alternative budget several times here; you must have heard this explanation before. The same applies to this EUR 20 million relating to energy tax refunds. There is a starting point for going a little up to the EU level in energy tax returns, but starting to convert it slowly into this kind of innovative export tax, where clean technology is carried forward. This is all in our papers. Please read.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u180	Mr President! Minister Orpo said that finding even EUR 100 million is very challenging. It is worth looking at the 80-point programme of immigration, which was included in the Government Programme by the Finns of Finland, which in due course calculated savings of around EUR 1 billion. Swedish middle-incomers get 200 euros more in their hands than Finnish middle incomes. The fact that the standard of living is raised means that money is left for consumption. This creates a breeding ground for companies, and some of them also become export companies. I would now like to ask the Orpo: why are we not following Sweden in the areas where Sweden has succeeded? Why are we only following the example of immigration, where Sweden has failed so badly?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u181	Reply, Minister Orpo, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u182	Madam President! I could take the floor on transport issues. This government, as the first government to draw up a plan for the recovery of the debt, spent EUR 600 million on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u187	Mr President! It is very important that we are also talking about public transport and rail solutions in relation to climate change. We all know that if we want to keep climate change in the 1.5-degree target, we will also have to change our transport system. I believe that what Minister Orpo has just said is that we may have to develop new financing solutions for these major railway projects, for example — only to see how Finavia and elsewhere have these models been made — is a very important task for the next government, to think about how to mobilise the big railway projects and in an accelerated timetable. Mr Kiuru also raised this issue of tax subsidies for electric cars, a reduction in car tax or exemption from the green alternative budget, in order to mobilise this rapid change in means of transport, and I believe that this type of means is needed to achieve a rapid correlation with climate change on the transport side as well. There is now a need for a little creativity and new solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u188	Mr President! Given that for years there has been a social welfare reform in this country and that there still seems to be no real knowledge of the direction of social and health services in that country, surprisingly little has been said about these services during this two-hour period. However, the reality of everyday life continues to appear to people as a difficulty in getting to a doctor or in getting the elderly services they need or in the plight of families with children. The SDP would be investing here and now in people getting treatment. We present a thousand more medical and nursing assignments to basic services. We would tighten the time limits for care and care guarantees — for example, home care services need to be made quicker. In addition, we would remove customer fees from the medical clinic’s doctor’s and nurse’s receptions. These are clear contributions to people's health and well-being in the midst of the social war.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u189	Irade the Talman! We were just talking about train traffic, and the one-hour train is, let's say now, a glamorous project. An hour train sounds much better than an hour and 27 minutes train, which I think is the fastest time to get from Helsinki to Turku on that track. By investing in the shoreline, on the other hand, a much smaller effort would bring similar benefits. I would like to ask the Minister: to what extent, within the government, have you assessed the output/input relationship between these projects? Even if you are the Minister of Finance now. Representative Huhtasaari spoke of Sweden. After all, Sweden has decommissioned the EU's and non-Established labour needs test. It will also be much easier to transfer business to the next generation in the generation. Both have had a good impact on both employment and entrepreneurship in general. In addition to that, we have proposed a number of other contributions,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u190	Madam President! I asked to speak earlier on the speech by Mr Lindtman when he said that the government should have its own nest first, referring to these transport appropriations. Mr President! That is exactly what the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, said. In fact, during this parliamentary term, the government has invested almost EUR 1 billion in the renovation of basic infrastructure management and has at least been able to halt the growth of the EUR 2.5 billion repair debt and, in some cases, even to reduce it. The decisions of this regime will continue to go far into the coming year, with the renovation investments that are moving and moving on from this year, so it can be said that the conscience of this government is certainly pure in this matter. Mr Lindtman, since your party was last in the government, Finland's roads were on the tardiness, the railways were late, the tracks were out of order and so on. That is why I am pleased to hear that you are also committing yourself to the joint will of the parliamentary working party during the next parliamentary term, regardless of who is in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u191	Mr President! Brief question, Mr Rossi: will EUR 100 million be good enough for basic access next year? Can you pick up the phone right now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u192	Madam President! I could use a little more. I myself proposed in the parliamentary working group that at least 300 million — at least. It was my show that was there. Of course, it is always a question of the whole line of government and of the budget, which the Committee on Budgets will ultimately accept. All the good traffic shows, the improvements, of course, would be good enough for us. It is also necessary to maintain fiscal stability.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u196	Mr President! Now it was not quite clear whether the answer was ‘yes’ or ‘no’ between the wafer’s pants. But I want to interpret positively, I understand that there would be a desire, at least in the centre, to seize this SDP proposal to increase funding for basic bus maintenance next year. But maybe that's enough, I think the viewers and listeners can draw the right conclusion from this. Mr President! It would be good if the debate went forward. What has been overlooked here is that one big incentive and a big impact on why the employment estimates of the SDP option are really positive is to encourage work through, for example, this income support. In other words, it is precisely where the highest rate of marginal taxation is to move from social security to work, for example, where we would be investing, where we would be encouraging. Is this good enough for you? Mr President! In this case, when this coalition's environmental policy was somewhat unclear and the highly respected representative, Mr Salolainen, is not here either, then whether this extension of the plastering programme would be good enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u197	Mr President! I also think it is very important that these large rail projects be brought forward, and it is particularly important that the main railway line should be integrated into the TEN-T core network and thus also within the scope of European funding. But this alternative budgetary procedure could thus be further developed to assess those positions previously taken by the parties. Now that we know that Etla has said that more than 50,000 jobs have come from government policies, almost all of them here in the left-wing opposition have been criticised or opposed by voting. If these things were taken into account, you would already start so far from the rear where the employment situation is, which is the state tax situation, that even if you stopped the whole Bank of Finland and Sitra, the money would not be enough. I would also like to ask the people of Peru that when you want to save EUR 300 million from the EU membership fee and last year the net contribution was EUR 275 million, is it now the case, then, in a way that you believe that you can receive more than what has been paid there? Or are you going to leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u198	Mr President! Yes, the government has good projects in many respects. Let us not reproach those who are good projects. But I would like to bring up this package of justice. However, the Finns of Finland would like justice for those who are underprivileged in Finland. Not everyone has been able to enjoy this economic growth and employment growth, Minister of Finance. We still have a very large number of people who live on so little money that they are weekly on bread lines on the streets. According to estimates, there are as many as 25,000 of them each week. I would like the government to have a little heart for them under Christmas, and in some way to compensate for their help so that these organisations can continue to work, and to allocate some money for Christmas money there. I would have asked the Minister of Finance when the SDP would like to have exempt entities subject to withholding tax and this would also apply to employment pension companies and investment funds and trade unions. I ask: if these employment pension companies had to contribute to this EUR 400 million in withholding tax, would the taxation of dividends lead to that,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u199	Mr President! It is a pleasure to be able to answer Mr Niiko's question. Firstly, this has been clarified with the pension companies, and this is only a sum of EUR 40 million, which is totally insignificant compared to the EUR 27 billion cash flow that goes through the pension companies. In other words, this does not affect pension contributions in any way. But now that I have been able to tell you about this subject, is it not an excellent idea that when each of us small investors pays 25.5% of the dividend tax but that of large investors — foreign investors who own more than half of the Helsinki stock exchange, foundations, associations of general interest, funds, including the trade union movement — the tax rate is round zero,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u200	Mr President! I would like to return to the last May, when Antti Rinne promised an increase of EUR 100 to pensioners receiving less than EUR 1400 per month. The talk must have been nice to hear, but had it been calculated what it would cost to carry this out? The price tag for this 100 is EUR 1.4 billion. Since the centre is a responsible party both in its speeches and in its actions, we would like the social democrats to tell the Finns how this Mayan centenary would have been financed. Indeed, such proposals undermine the credibility of your other budget proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u202	Madam President! For the Social Democrats against the protection of the Baltic Sea, it was at the request of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo that the Government prepared the Baltic Sea programme. EUR 15 million is an historic amount from next year's budget, and it is important that it is used for plaster and to reduce emissions to the Baltic Sea. Madam President, it is excellent that we are going through these alternative budgets and creepy figures: Greens: 21000 fewer jobs and even Mr Haavisto does not bother to answer why this is being proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u205	Mr President! Of course, this big picture is important to remember here. I do not believe that the alternative budget for parties that are about to bring down social security is credible because it would create a billion-dollar gap. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u206	Madam President! The SDP in itself certainly wants to be free of charge at secondary level and longer than compulsory education. You estimate that you will spend EUR 20 million on this, but even in your own shadow budget, you say, on the other hand, that its price tag would be EUR 100 million. This doesn't add up. This is, of course, the Huuhaa award of Skepsis ry, but not necessarily the vote. This government, even on the initiative of the Blues, has already made a study material supplement for the underprivileged. It is a focus on what needs to be done on such issues. I don't understand why even those mountain counselors need free school material. Is it not more sensible to specify there for those who are underprivileged? And that is what has been done. As far as the people of Peru are concerned, the price of this detention has come earlier, at 650 million. Mr Satonen raised the question of the EU membership fee and, thirdly, this mid-term index for pensioners, about which you say here that you would like to change it. You don't have a price tag for this either. You've already got three things on such short notice. It's completely out of the shadow budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u207	Mr President! The long line of the SDP is that education policy is long-term, its impact is assessed and carried out on the basis of research. That is why we have made the Knowledge Path for 2030, an investment package, and that is why we are already looking at the 2030s in education policy as a whole. And one reform as part of this is indeed one that could be implemented as early as next year, and that is the extension of compulsory education, which the Economic Policy Review Council has raised as the main reform of education policy. As far as this price tag is concerned
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u211	Madam President! This forestry policy is quite interesting. When Mrs Rinne presented the model of the slope in forestry policy, 72.4 million mots of felling and no more, it is now quite clear that every single mot is reserved for the present industry, sawmills and pulp mills. I don't think there's enough punches left to go anywhere else. Over the decades, we have made huge logging savings with proper forest management, and now we should not use them. It is worth reminding all those who speak of such harrowing pomps that the use of forests today is a global business. If we leave our forests unattended, then wood will be brought to this land by ship from somewhere else, at worst in African countries rain forests will be cut and pushed here by ship. It is the fault of this absurd policy if we ourselves do not manage our forests and then allow forests to be destroyed elsewhere in the world. We have our own forests, which have been kept in good condition, and then we have built a forest industry in this country. I do not understand that this is the present forest line of the demars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u212	Mr President! Here a representative just asked how the Finns of Finland would finance, among other things, the introduction of the mid-term index for small and medium-income pensioners. Now I have to say that this funding does not come from state resources, it comes from the wealth of pension companies, which is worth over EUR 200 billion and which is constantly growing by billions. If this were to be the case, the benefit would be not only pensioners but also society as a result of increased tax revenues. But why I originally asked for the floor is this: Mr Niikko raised earlier the question of a cut in support of food aid organisations, which the government did last Christmas. We attach great importance to restoring it. In addition, the option of Finns living in Finland includes strengthening the status of family carers. Although family carers do not do their important work, take care of their loved ones, for money, the financial position of family carers must definitely be strengthened. Is there a government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u213	Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa, who seems to have already left the Chamber, still provoked me when he said that I have not answered the same question when, in my opinion, I had already answered Mr Zyskowicz twice. [Ben Zyskowicz requests the reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u216	Mr President! Now that representatives of the Coalition Party in particular are excited to talk about these calculations and results of the Information Service, I would also like to highlight such a figure as 58,000. It is the number of people who, under the left-wing alliance option, rise above the poverty line because we are also prepared to make efforts to improve social security for the most deprived. Here Mr Ala-Nissila said earlier that the cheese planer no longer manages, but it is the cheese plan that will continue to be used next year for the lowest-income Finns, because social security index freezes will be maintained, even though employment and economic conditions have improved and even the Prime Minister himself wondered in newspaper interviews whether there was too much cutting. So this is the fundamental difference between the left and the Greens and the government. We are prepared to invest money to improve the livelihood of low-income people and reduce poverty,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u217	Madam President! Representative Andersson criticised the data service's calculations,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u220	Mr President! I would have come to this very point. After all, the fight against the shadow economy is essentially a question of strengthening the position of honest entrepreneurs and social morality, and this involves a number of objectives. Let me tell you a few objectives to achieve this: Firstly, funding can be found in the international tax evasion programme. Secondly, extending the tax number not only to the construction sector but also to other sectors, such as transport and so on, brings significant tax revenues. This tax number in the construction sector brought EUR 160 million in revenue to public finances. Another would be the introduction of type approved cash registers in restaurants. It will bring around 120 to 140 million, according to the Ministry of Finance, to society if this is implemented. Moreover, when the alcohol law was reformed, Parliament required that electronic cash register systems be used. Subscriber Liability Act
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u221	Mr President! I would now like to correct Mr Zyskowicz's erroneous argument. I didn't blame the data service's calculations. Instead, I am the only representative here who has pointed out and tried to open up the mechanism behind this which leads to these results in terms of the impact on employment. Nevertheless, it is no secret that the fight against poverty and the reduction of inequality are at our core. It is at the heart of the policy of the Left Alliance and, of course, in our alternative budget this kind of investment is included. In addition, we also believe that, from the perspective of Finnish employment and industry, investments in education, research, product development and innovation play a crucial role. One weakness in this calculation is that training efforts, for example, are not visible. They have not been assessed from the employment point of view, although I am sure we all agree that it is education and knowledge from the employment point of view in a country such as Finland that is absolutely key.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u223	Madam President! I'd really like to say that the cheese grinder's road has been taken. It can save tens of millions, perhaps hundreds of millions with taxes, but billions of people are in major structural reforms, which will really help us to improve the Finnish welfare society. If every rate of employment brings room for manoeuvre to public finances of 1.4 billion, it is a big...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u226	Mr President! I, too, am pleased and am in favour of investing in an hour's train. Mr Meri raised our shadow budget and many good things about it. I'm going to bring up the senior citizens now. There is an index guarantee in pensions that the purchasing power of the pension will be maintained. It is well known that a Finnish pensioner puts his money into domestic consumption, always — if there is money. The folded index came in 96, it's a curse word.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u227	Mr President! Mr Elomaa is certainly quite sincere in wanting to intervene, for example, with regard to this index freeze for pensioners, which, unfortunately, has had to be done in this economic situation, but then one has to wonder why this shadow budget for Finns is not being presented. You have nothing to do with the next year's index freezes. This is what is done in the alternative budget of some other parties, but you will not interfere with it. Then, of course, there has been talk here of a guarantee pension and of the status of pensioners in general. If it is thought that the government has increased the guarantee pension and increased pensions by a total of EUR 44 per month, then if these level increases had been made through this index, the increase would have been much lower. Through this, the increase has been almost EUR 18 higher than it would have been through these indices. So, is it not the most important thing for a pensioner, such as a guaranteed pensioner, to remain in the hands of the rest of the games? And as far as the Left Alliance is concerned, you have 13,000 workers lost in relation to changes in social security and income tax only, but in addition to the withdrawal of the Kiki agreement based on the calculation of the Ministry of Finance, there would be 40000 workers lost — more than 50000 in total.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u228	Mr President! On the basis of this debate, you can at least say that one big difference in the thinking of the SDP and the government is that the SDP wants to invest in the future. Investments in education, science and research are the best future investments we could make. Of course, there is a risk to all investments, but we may already have enough evidence to show that it is worth investing in these matters and that this investment risk will be taken up. The government has cut off these very things that are important for the future, thereby weakening the prospects for future growth. Now, these small increases in the budget for next year in education, science and research are a light patchwork of the savings made. And the worst thing about this, of course, is that it is very likely that we will pay these savings many times more in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u229	Madam President! Employment will improve in the green alternative budget, thanks to the reform of family leave, but also through investment in education and training. The contributions to knowledge will provide a basis for the future success of the economy, but they will also contribute to the problem of matching and access to skilled labour. In the fight against climate change, Finland can also cope with high levels of education. In the green alternative budget, employment will also improve through free early childhood education for five-year-olds. We also improve in many ways the quality and attractiveness of day care, which facilitates women's transition to work. Personally, I am very pleased that the Greens have the courage to bring the basic daily allowance for the unemployed closer to the minimum budget for the poor, which is now being hit by it in a very significant way, and I think it is a disgrace in the welfare state. I also believe that when poverty falls, people's lack of participation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u230	Madam President! I do not know — you can check the parliamentary minutes — whether there is another MP in Parliament who so often would have appealed to the calculation of the parliamentary information service as is the representative Alanko-Kahiluoto. On countless occasions in this Chamber, he has appealed to the calculations of the parliamentary information service. But let's face it, when Parliament's information service, with its indisputable skills, calculates that the alternative budget for the Greens will increase unemployment by 21,000 — then that Parliament's information service will not be able to count, it will not be able to take this into account and will not be able to take this into account. Of course, it is not the case, as Mr Andersson said earlier, that any increase in social security will reduce employment. If, for example, the guarantee pension is increased, it will not, of course, reduce employment. And, President-in-Office, on this grey economy: I did indeed suggest that the government should put 20 million in it if the demos guarantee that 300 million will be recovered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u231	Mr President! Representative Andersson has now told us twice what this calculation of Parliament's information service is based on,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u234	Irade the Talman! Sannfinländerna föreslår i sin skuggbudget också att klumpsumun till Åland ska minska med 100 million euro, alltså med 40 percent. Förslaget måste reserve now finländskt rekord i populism om Åland. Ålands klumpsum är inget ekonomiskt bidrag till Åland. Ålänningar betalar skatt precis på samma sätt som alla andra finländare, och får sedan tillbaka en bestemd andel av det man betaalat. Detta för att finansiera den offentliga servicen, sjukård, dagis, äldreboende, skolor, vägar, som på Åland scöts av landskapet i tillet för av staten, effectsom behörigheten hör till Ålands självstyrelse. Ålands goda sysselsättningsläge — 82 % — gör att Åland i dag är netbetalare av direkta Skatter till staten. Hur skulle Åland kunna organisera den ox offentliga servicen och bota sjuka, ta hand om barn och äldre om man skär bort 40 percent av Ålands budget? Förslaget är mot grundlagens princip om lasabehandling och mot självstyrelselagen. Så min fråga är: Respekterar sannfinländarna inte grundlagen, eller hur ska man se på det ox? Hur ser regeringen på förslaget som sannfinländarra har lagt?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u235	Mr President! We are well aware that the Åland Autonomous Law would require a constitutionally complicated order of procedure and possibly urgent procedure, and we have, for example, the intelligence laws here at the moment, which went really smoothly forward. This requires only unanimity. In addition, it is good to remember that the province of Åland is completely free of debt. If you think of Finland's sovereign debt, it's 100 billion. I come from Hyvinkää, we have 46,000 inhabitants, and we owe 100 million. When Åland has the possibility of free public transport, the Yle-Tax is not paid, so I would like to ask myself why you are looking at it, a representative who should live in a better position. But aren't we the same country anymore?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u236	I shall now give the following three speeches, and then the Minister's reply will be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u237	Mr President! I am also disturbed by the fact that proposals are being made here that do not comply with Finnish legislation, such as this case in Åland, and like this capitalisation of the Bank of Finland by a national decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u240	Madam President! Mr Hassi has just explained very well how the alternative budget for the Greens will increase employment in various ways and that Parliament's information service has its limits, although I very much appreciate this service and have made great use of it in my opposition work. Among other things, this impact assessment of the Parliamentary Information Service shows that government policy benefits more men than women and that in this government policy equality does not materialise as it should be promoted in politics. Parliament's Information Service also proves that in the green alternative budget, gender equality will improve as a result of the changes we make to social security. Although this state budget proposal would be the most effective instrument in Finland to improve gender equality, unfortunately
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u241	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz and some others have taken a good interest in these background calculations of Parliament's information service to show that the green model produces 21,000 more unemployed people. But perhaps it is human that this method of reading has been selective and that you have not dared the social democrats in the same context that 7,000 jobs will be created in our model. In addition, I can tell you by household: Families with children benefit EUR 147, students EUR 322, employees EUR 168, pensioners EUR 208 on average. Unfortunately, even Minister Orpo did not accept this increase in employment of 7,000 people, and now I hope that I do not have to go too far to teach what is the difference between expenditure and investment. The investment, Minister Orpo, is exactly what is being done in the expectation that it will be profitable and beneficial, as is the case with this hour train. A similar investment is the expansion of compulsory education, which is supported by the Economic Policy Review Council as an investment, as is the reform of family leave, the reform of early childhood education, the purpose of which is the argument for increasing employment growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u242	And then Minister Orpo, reply, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u243	Madam President! At the beginning of this speech I would like to express my constructive thanks to all the opposition groups for these shadow budgets and for the debate. A few comments, however. Starting with this tax side, it is noted that the SDP tax programme has a commendable desire for a strong and broad tax base. And there, I am sure, among the measures I have had to criticise, there are also those that are well worth considering. But the objective, a determined attitude towards seeking a broad, concise tax base, is everything a and o, because it allows the tax rates to remain low. I am not going back to this taxation of entrepreneurship and work more broadly, but perhaps there are a couple of picks. There was a new idea for income support for small wages and salaries under EUR 15,000. According to the first estimate, according to estimates by the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance, it may not be best targeted, since the majority of those who earn less than EUR 15,000 are students or over 65, if I remember correctly. In addition to coming to us at the beginning of next year's income register, it will provide flexibility, but this return would obviously come afterwards, which will make it somewhat stiff, and the price tag would be over 200 million. But I think that we should think about and evaluate and study these types of things that we can use to encourage people to work, always make work more profitable. It is one of the key objectives of tax policy and social policy — always work must be encouraged, always work worthwhile — and, in my opinion, when the social security system is to be reformed next season, this must be one of the important principles. I think there is too little mention of budgeting sustainable development here, or, if I am quite specific, I have never heard the opposition talk about it. I think it is an excellent tool for the continuation, now it has been used twice. It has been firmly pushed into the budget book, it will provide a tool for future evaluation of how the euro will implement sustainable development objectives: resource-wise, carbon-neutral Finland. That's an excellent thing. But then I have one big concern, and I will return to this programme of the SDP. You're raising the margins for those who deserve better. I am sure it is a robinhood idea to support, but there must be some point here too. When a well-earned, expert person already pays about 50% of the tax and, at the same time, we have a key person's law that allows a foreign worker, who comes to a key task, a 35% tax cap, then this difference is starting to get pretty wild. However populist it may be, I would still like and dare to say out loud that we need to ensure that Finnish experts stay in this country, work here and add value to Finnish companies. But they can't be taxed from here to abroad. This is absolutely essential. Well, as far as these employment figures and evaluations are concerned, I have to say — when I have had to answer here so many times, when the information service has told me that a few euros have moved the distribution of income here and there, and when I have tried to tell you that we have invested, for example, in employment and employment has improved — that there has been a chorus here that says that they are not taken into account in that calculation. Today they should have been taken into account. In other words, day-to-days are always here in political debates, as we tend to say in Turku. Of these employment effects, the government still has some 50,000 jobs. I did not notice that the SDP's alternative budget had withdrawn the government's actions. So it's a good thing they're good at this point. But on the whole, Madam President, Parliament will continue to work on the actual draft budget and hopefully in a constructive spirit. There is an opportunity to address these questions that have arisen here as well. I am confident that this line of economic, employment and tax policy, which the government is pursuing, will produce results and safeguard the well-being of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u244	This debate has now taken place for more than 3 hours, 3 hours and 15 minutes, and there seems to be a willingness to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u245	Madam President! I visited Mr Töll's intelligence law working group and sat there for 2.5 hours to carry out parliamentary duties. When I began this Parliament's day here in the Chamber, I listened to the speech of the chairman of the SDP, Mr Rinte, and he began by saying that I hope this day will not go to the side of misunderstanding, deliberate misunderstanding — and when I come from the Töll Group here in the Chamber, I see that it did go, the days will be in succession, as the Minister of Finance has said here. I would have liked to have asked the Minister for Finance one question in the last debate. You also served as Minister of the Interior in 2015, and I attach a great deal of value to the work you have done to this day: in the midst of a huge refugee crisis, you were able to act responsibly as Minister, for which I thank you very much, and also a token of appreciation. The Social Democrats have also set EUR 20 million for the remuneration and increase of our security forces, the increase in the number of security authorities and the increase in the level of remuneration. What do you think of this proposal as the responsible finance minister today? This investment in the security of our citizens is one of the main foundations of our proposal to cover this vast field of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u246	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u247	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank Mr Kari for his good cooperation on this journey from 2015. There has been a common concern that the number of security players, the police, the border guards, can be established. Without the action taken by the government during this period, the amount from which we started would have dropped dramatically, closer to 6,000. Now we've made a lot of investments. If we look in relative terms at the administrative sectors to which appropriations have been increased since the government negotiations, then surely one of the biggest, if not the largest, is the Ministry of the Interior's administration. It has been possible to stabilise the number of police officers at 7200, the number of border guards at the eastern border, Helsinki Airport and so on. I have considered this absolutely necessary in this security situation. Surely there is more need, and in that sense I understand your presentation, but I am also proud and pleased that we have also been able to make these investments in this situation, in a tight economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u248	Mr President! In this alternative budget, if I have understood correctly, the SDP proposes a 5% dividend tax for all public-interest entities and then for all institutional investors, such as domestic pension institutions and companies. This 5% tax seems so suddenly very reasonable, but when it is known that many public-interest entities spend their money on very important humane purposes, this proposal is a little surprising and would be happy to hear the arguments why such public-interest entities should be taxed in a new way. Similarly, taxing pension companies is a bit strange when it is known that securing pensions is behind work, even under these conditions, in a longer perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u249	And now let's go to the list of speakers. This part of the debate is over for now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u250	Mr President! Today is a very interesting day when an alternative budget for opposition parties has been held and is still under discussion here in the great Chamber. There are still more interesting elections coming up, and these alternative budgets already indicate what policy the parties will be offering their voters in the spring. The alternative budget of the Finns Party clearly reflects the values that are important to us. We care about the well-being and quality of life of a normal Finnish citizen. Our solutions aim at a stable, safe and just society in which it is good to live, work and try. Why is the basic Finnish option better and fairer than the government's budget proposal? Firstly, we are thinking about the long-term effects of our budgetary policies. The same cannot be said of nearly every government solution. We are looking at the impact of solutions from the perspective of ordinary Finns, not through the interests of international large companies, the EU or even the trade union movement. We are only accountable to voters, not to other parties, unlike the old parties. Finland’s national interest is what is important for Finns. One of the most important policies of our alternative budget is to break down government debt and promote economic growth, safeguard national assets, allocate public sector funds fairly, restricting bad immigration, promote internal security and reduce housing costs, and moderate energy taxation. Good and accurate economic management that serves Finland’s interests enables the development of well-being in the long term. It is also important for future generations to enjoy clean air — climate duties — clean water and diverse nature. Tax resources should be used to promote the well-being of Finns, and the costs of a billion-class migration must be reduced. Mr President! Security is an important issue for everyone and for the functioning of society and for collective trust. In our alternative budget, we are proposing an additional EUR 50 million in training and hiring 800 police officers. We also propose an increase of EUR 50 million for the protection police, the Central Criminal Police, the Defence Forces, the Emergency Response Centre, the Border Guard and Customs in order to strengthen human resources. Education and innovation policy must be able to strengthen skills and future growth prospects. It is important to enable education for all, regardless of family background. Group sizes, the ability of staff and the health, safety and comfort of the environment are important themes from early childhood education to preparatory education. To support the eradication of bullying, we propose the appointment of a school peace agent in the municipalities. We therefore propose an additional EUR 180 million in early childhood education and training to ensure greater security and the future. In order to facilitate the situation of pensioners on low and medium incomes, we propose the introduction of a so-called mid-term index. In health care care, care needs to be maintained and institutional care provided to those in need. Support for informal care must be exempt from tax. True Finns want to strengthen the vitality of rural areas. Thanks to domestic agriculture, we can enjoy clean, additive-free and gmo-free, more ecologically and ethically produced local food. We are proposing, among other things, an additional EUR 10 million to secure the relief system and EUR 50 million to cover crop damage. Cheap housing is one of the key themes of this alternative budget. We are proposing to intervene in electricity transmission prices — the prices of electricity transmissions, they are scandalous. The tax increase on heating fuels was a mistake and must be cancelled. Mr President! In the area of taxation, we would moderate inheritance taxation, reduce taxes on fuel and energy and reduce taxes on earnings on average income. We would offer businesses an increase in the VAT threshold and an encouraging business tax model for SMEs employing new employees. And quite finally, there is an important point: animal welfare organisations are doing valuable work on animal rights and welfare. We believe that these activities could be supported from the proceeds of the lottery, and we are proposing that we support animal welfare as a new source of gambling revenue. This is part of our justice package, which includes helping indoors, intervention by insurance doctors, securing food aid and reducing party subsidies. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u251	Mr President! This has been the afternoon of a rather colorful, varied debate in which both President Rinne and Minister Orpo wished to speak constructively. Not everyone has been able to achieve this, but let us at this stage at least try to look constructively towards the future. The Social Democrats' alternative budget is the first budget of the 2020s. It is a future budget which aims to ensure that, at the moment when we are at the peak of the upturn, we must take responsibility for the fact that the next decade will certainly be more economical than the present moment we are living in. We must therefore be prepared for what is to come, and therefore, our alternative budget, unlike the government model, is investing in future investments. These investments have been covered here, but I am perhaps now approaching them from a somewhat perverse perspective, from the point of view of the arrival. The principle of good taxation is clear: tight tax bases, low rates. We tighten the tax base and support loopholes and, accordingly, reduce income tax for low and middle-income employees and pensioners. 95 per cent of Finns benefit from our model compared to the government proposal: up to EUR 4,700 per month, Finns benefit from the SDP model, so we are in middle class business. Another important principle of taxation is that tax revenue should be taken from where it is least harmful to the economy and that taxes should be reduced from where it is most beneficial for employment and growth. That is why we interfere with aggressive and proper tax planning, because tax planning has not built any houses or ships in Finland. The government has, unfortunately, distributed EUR 200 million per year for tax reductions which, according to the proposals, have not even had noticeable effects on employment and growth. These are wasted millions. On the other hand, taxation must be reduced where it is hoped. And when our shared goal is that, after the target of 72% employment rates, we have to go up to 75% in order to guarantee public services in the welfare society, then we have to look at where the studies say that our employment lags behind the other Nordic countries, because every single percentage point of employment, even a tenth, is more difficult than the previous one. They will find employment more easily first and more difficult after that. There are two points that we are lagging behind, and that is why we are dealing with them. That is why we want to correct precisely those areas where employment and growth are at risk. First, we see that the low-skilled, mainly male workers, are less employed in Finland than in Sweden, for example. There has been a huge structural change in employment. Until 30 years ago, we have had almost a million jobs, for which primary education has been sufficient. Two thirds of these have disappeared and will never return. That is why the extension of compulsory education is an absolutely necessary investment in the future, which has also been encouraged by the Economic Policy Review Council. And then, if we approach the other way around, those people who wonder whether benefits, such as unemployment benefit, will be available, or would dare to go to low-paid, perhaps precarious or part-time work, we would like to help with income support. Minister Orpo welcomed this in principle, but it is clear that access to other benefits, such as study and pension benefits, must be limited. The estimates of the VM to which he referred were excessive. Another factor in which Finnish employment lags behind Swedish and other Nordic countries is the participation of young women in the labour market. That is why reforms also need a reform of early childhood education, steps towards free early childhood education. We have already invested EUR 100 million in reducing early childhood education fees, extending zero payments to slightly higher incomes, still middle income Finns, and that is why family leave reform is equally necessary. A few more words about entrepreneurship reduction when it seemed to be so dear to many here. I believe that there is no disagreement in this Chamber that small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported, but, President, at the very end of the day, let us try logic: if the SDP model has removed entrepreneurial deduction, but the result is that half of entrepreneurs, and the lower-income part of entrepreneurs in particular, benefit from the SDP model, then it alone will prove what the recent statistics of Finnish entrepreneurs show: entrepreneurial deduction is wrong, 50 per cent to the highest income category. Our model genuinely helps a small entrepreneur. I'm happy because I'm a small-time entrepreneur myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u252	Irade fru talman! Ålands självstyrelselag har de Senaste 95åren utvecklats i flera repriser. Den Senaste självstyrelselage trädde i kraft 1995, då bland give nuvarande ekonomiska system mellan staten och självstyrelsen trädde i kraft. Det ekonomiska systemet har inte uppdaterats sedan dess och situationen med systemet börjar för åländsk del bli allt mer ohållbar. Nuvarande system bygger på att alla ålänningar betalar alla statsskatter till staten precis som alla andra finländare. Det ox syns dock inte på ett spececiellt stanlle i budgeten effectersom de bull skatterna jätts i momma pott som alla andra skater. Åland betalade senaste katteår 0.64 percent av hela landsets mest betydande direktrea skater. Av de raus skatterna får Åland sedan tillbaka 0.45 percent av de samlade katteintäkterna för staten, exclusive låneupptagningen, och det rai syns i statsbudgeten som en utgiftspost. Det har ibland framställts som att det rai skulle reserve ekonomiskt bidrag till Åland, men så är det inte. Det är en del av de pengar som ålänningarna har betalat in och som på den posten överförs tillbaka effectsom procentsatsen 0.45 percent används Oberoende av vad som betalas in. Åland är en god skattebetalare effectsom sysselsättningen är god och arbetslösheten är under 4 percent. Sysselsättningsgraden är 82 percent, och det är också en förklaring till varför flera åländska kommuner inte har en överstor skuldbörda. Men också åländska kommuner är skuldsata. Irade the Talman! Problemet är att den avräkningsprocent inte har justerats sedan det ox systemet trädde i kraft för över 20 år sedan. Då systemet trädde i kraft var Ålands andel av den finländska befolkningen 0,49 percent. I dag är Ålands andel av befolkningen nistan 0,53 percent. Ålands befolkning harökat med 16 percent sedan systemet trädde i kraft, medan hela landsets befolkning bara ökat med 8 percent. I fjol växte Åland näst snabbast i hela landet per capita, bara Nyland växer snabbare. Hittills i år har befolkningstilllväxten fortsatt. Men trots att befolkningen ökar snabbt får Åland ändå momma 0.45 percent tillbaka i klumpsum. Det auri gör att Ålands offentliga ekonomistorfår ett underskott trots att sysselsättningen är mycket god. För desto fler arbetsplatser som skapas — vilket är bra för staten och hela Finland — desto mindre blir de offentliga inkomsterna per capita till Åland. Åland är nu ett samhalle med knappt 30,000 invånare. Strikt ekonomiskt skulle det vara bättre om Åland bara hade 10000 invånare, med dagens ekonomiska system. För med dagens system skulle då Åland fortsättningsvis få 0,45 percent tillbaka i klumpsum. Men vi vill inte bli mindre. Vi vill växa, vi vill ha tillväxt, vi vill skapa nya företag och vi vill vara med och utveckla så att Finland växer. Men för att kunna göra det måste också den offentliga economist utvecklas i takt med den privata economist, precis som på alla andra platser i landet. Så är det inte i dag. Åland har därför länge arbetat för att klumpsumun ska justeras för att motsvara dagens verklighet. Det är inte bara befolkningen som har växt, Bolagiseringen av vis av statens affärsverksamheter och EU-medlemskapets ökade byråkrati har också påverkat Ålands klumpsum rejält negativt. Därför föreslår svenska riksdagsgruppen och jag i en budgetmotion att klumpsum till Åland höjs från och med nästa år med 15 million euro genom att avräkningsgrunden höjs från 0,45 percent till 0,48 percent. Det raus skulle motsvara Ålands befolkningsökning och hålla relationstalen på samma nivå som då dagens självstyrelselag trädde i kraft. För det var meningen att klumpsumun skulle ändras och höjas om det fanns skäl för det, Vilket Ålands befolkningsökning är en stark grund för. Irade the Talman! Det auri handlar inte om att Åland skulle få mer pengar än någon let, utan om att Åland skulle ha momma öjligheter att utvecklas som alla andra. Det handlar om att vi behöver få ett uppdaterat system som är mer rättvist så att Åland också får tillbaka mer om vi betalar mer i Skatt. För i dagens läge får Åland tillbaka för lite pengar, och desto mer befolkningen växer och desto mer Skatt vi betalar, desto mindre pengar får vi tillbaka per capita. Det är en ohållbar sitation. Självstyrelsen får inte re en conjunkturfråga. Här handlar det om att självstyrelsesystemet också måste fungera i practicekken. Finland har i internationalellt antagna och ikraftvarande avtal förbundit sig till Ålands självstyrelse, som en del av att Åland blev kvar under Finländsk sovereigntet. Staten måsten därför ta ett större ansvar för att upprätthålla den gällande lagstiftningen och se till att det ekonomiska självstyrelsesystemet också fungerar i practiceken. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u253	Madam President! It was interesting to hear Mr Löfström's speech about Åland. By the way, Åland has an employment rate of 82% that we should take as a model. Åland is part of Finland. It's ours. It's ours. In south-west Finland, it is easy to understand and know the situation in Åland. I wonder about the stamping of Åland by the Finns of Finland. I find it almost shameful. President! The big picture wants to be forgotten in these budget debates. As far as I am concerned, this is a very good way of organising a sitting of this kind with alternative budgets for the various opposition parties. This will create a good debate and everyone will have to think about the challenges of public finances together on a slightly different basis. After all, we entered this parliamentary term in a situation where the indebtedness of public finances was more than EUR 6 billion a year and the development of unemployment was negative. This 6 billion, as I calculate it, I count it per child born — which we still have too little — that is, if we divide it by 6 billion by 50,000, then it will be EUR 120,000, that is, such a bill of debt for the annual debt was placed in the maternity package of the child born immediately. It cannot be done in that way; of course, public finances had to be put in order. The current government took over the strategic government programme, for the first time in Finland, where there were five strategic areas, it was the improvement of employment and the balance of public finances that was two of the most important. In my opinion, Prime Minister Sipilä said here in his opening speech that the three most important things in the Finnish economy are employment rates, employment rates, employment rates. In Finland, with the employment rate in southern Europe, which was 67.8 in Finland, we cannot safeguard the Nordic welfare society. It's impossible. In fact, if we take the grey economy into account, Finland's employment rate has been the lowest in the OECD countries, and this is a fact that we do not really want to understand. Now that we have achieved an increase in the employment rate of 4 percentage points — a very good achievement — every percentage point is calculated, it will bring an additional 1.4 billion margins for public finances. Tax revenue will increase, unemployment expenditure, housing support expenditure will decrease and so on. Now that we have a 4 percentage points increase in the employment rate, with this Elon math, which has been advertised here, it would make 5.6 billion more room for manoeuvre in balancing central government finances, and that is very important. This is the path we must continue to take, really raise it to 75% in the next parliamentary term with a new strategic government programme and then move towards 80. What we need — I think we should talk about this sort of thing, as I heard representative Haraka talking about modern renewal. We need inclusive growth, as the OECD says, to take on board economic growth. After all, people are now differentiated on the basis of income, regional development, education, social status. There are many reasons: globalisation, huge concentration, very rapid change in work, among other things, are fundamental reasons. That's why we have to take people with us better. You can see that in politics too. If we look at the Swedish elections, at the French elections or at the German elections, then it will be in those very areas where there is lack of participation and unemployment, then populist parties will be successful and politics will be in big trouble. There's nothing going on in Sweden, there's nothing going on in Italy, there's nothing going on in Britain...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u258	Madam President! Here in Parliament's deliberations, the opposition's alternative budgets are now in place. It was not a big surprise to me that the alternative to the SDP is impossible as an equation. The main contribution of the SDP’s alternative budget is that even partial financing of the SDP’s election promises is impossible or based on massive additional debt. All that remains is the question of how much the SDP, led by Antti Rinte, will be prepared to increase the government's debt to finance the SDP's election promises next season. We did not receive an answer to this. If there were no surprises with regard to the SDP, I was surprised that the Greens were willing to increase the number of unemployed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u261	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The alternative budget for Finns is very diverse and takes a stand on many of the issues that we as Finns and Finns have committed to taking forward. We have additional investments in security, police operations. We have tax reductions to moderate inheritance taxation, raise the VAT threshold and introduce a new incentive business tax model, as well as a reduction in fuel tax, among other things. We have a package of justice, including support for indoor illnesses, insurance doctors and, among other things, support for animal welfare organisations, and also support for food aid organisations. We also have the home care and care section where we take a stand on issues such as the elderly. We propose that the nurseship be recorded in the law. We also expect the boom for the closure of long-term care facilities, plant sites, to come to the understanding of all of us. Ending them is unforgivable, and we will finally end this. We are pointing out the truth that the home care of older people is in crisis and despite the fact that the government has had the lead in home care and informal care, it has not hit its mark at all, but on the contrary: more and more elderly people are there with too little help, with too little resources from the nurses. Madam President! It was really great to listen to these group talks and discussions and to see that both the Christian, the left and the Greens are on the line of the Finns. The Christians presented a law of hospice. That is something that the Finns of Finland have made a law on a long time ago, and it is also part of this debate, which means that we propose and demand a hospice law in Finland. The left raised the issue of the urgency of the treatment guarantee periods. We have taken a position on this, arguing that there is no time to wait for an elderly person, but that an elderly person should be received at a health centre as if he were coming to an emergency clinic and for acute treatment: immediately an elderly person's service and access to a doctor at a health centre. Well, then the tax exemption for green electric cars: I very much welcome this initiative. I have already taken a legislative initiative in the last parliamentary term. It received the signature of 77 Members of Parliament at the time, and it was very quick to miss out on the fact that it did not go to the Ministry for a statement. Yes, it's very supportive and it's very good. We can all go to the environment. Madam President! The surprise was that it is neither surprising nor news that the Finns of Peru are cutting back on development aid. Well, it's also not news that we're giving the elderly because we're a party for the care of the elderly, and sometimes it feels like we're the only ones, because we talk about these things at a different time than just when the elections are approaching. We have long-term and persistently been going through these issues year after year, and we have also brought figures, including through the'swot' analysis, which I did a few years ago, which told me at risk that what the hell is going on there in the care of the elderly. We also have a return programme here, and that is what was said here that 651 million would pay for this detention of illegal residents. I don't think so. I don't think so. If there were such figures, that is completely wrong and contrary to this principle of equality, which is spoken of in Parliament every day. I am surprised that a Finnish elderly person is taken care of for 80 euros at home, but then a prisoner like this would cost hundreds and hundreds of euros to society. Where on earth is this equality here? I would understand to some extent if these people, who, for example, now belong to Finnish social security in such a way that they get their food and medicine and stay free of paper, were to be registered and recorded somewhere. This is what Ben Zyskowicz of the Convention raised the debate here last Friday, and he himself wondered that, among other things, income support could be applied for time and again anonymously. And this, if anything, is a bottomless well in Finland. We Finns cannot do this either. Madam President! The Finns of Peru are starting from the idea that we are for Finns and that we want good for Finnish people. We are hardworking, we are taxpayers, and we are a hard-working people, and I hope that Finland will remain that way in the future. Work must be invested in, jobs, Finnish entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs. When I go around Finland, a lot of small entrepreneurs, a man or a woman in overalls, will come and say hello and say hello to the Finns. My regards to the government for listening to our alternative budget as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u262	Mr President! The shadow budget is a good idea, but it must also have realism and honesty. Demars, for example, have always wanted to increase the compulsory education age and also want to get secondary school free, but only put EUR 20 million in it. Even the Greens and the Left Alliance are more realistic with their 80 million. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has carried out careful work in assessing these costs, and material costs alone would cost EUR 114 million more and the total increase in compulsory education of EUR 183 million. Compared to these figures, the 20 million is totally undervalued. The expenditure of the demars is therefore very low, and other opposition parties also seem to agree on the issue of the demarcation. It's terrifying for Finland if the demos were the guardians of the state chest. It is also worth noting that the great promises and virtual deeds of the demos are not at all mutually exclusive. For example, the money promised to pensioners, EUR 100 increase, does not appear in any of these budgets. Instead, they only say 20 bucks. Or for transport projects, for example, they have demanded several million additional euros in the past, but now only one million. Instead, the government put about EUR 1 billion in transport projects. So the shadow budget clearly reveals whether election promises and possible actions are in line. In that way they are very revealing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u263	Mr President! Mr Vahasalo must now first say that the 20 million in next year's budget is the share of the autumn term and only one age group, that is to say one age group at a time. In that sense, it is quite true that in the future these total costs will certainly be more than 20 million, but we have now made the alternative budget for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u266	Mr President! In the debate on this issue, I pointed out that our worst sustainability deficit is climate debt. Although, when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published its report a few weeks ago, almost all political leaders swore that real action should now be taken to mitigate climate change, that political will is not reflected in the government's budget proposal, and even in the debate so far on alternative budgets, the issue has been unfortunately on the agenda. That is why I say what the Greens say in their own alternative budget: We are proposing a major cut in the subsidies contained in the government budget proposal which in practice favour the use of fossil fuels. All in all, we are proposing a cut of some EUR 800 million to these subsidies, i.e. an increase of about EUR 800 million in the taxation of fossil fuels. Overall, the Ministry of Finance’s estimate — at least the estimate in the Committee on the Environment — of the government’s budget proposal for environmentally harmful subsidies amounts to EUR 2.5 billion. So we, too, would only cut some of these subsidies that promote fossil energy. Rarely do we remember, however, when climate change mitigation is one of the most important tasks of building and securing our future, that everything that promotes the use of fossil fuels through tax relief or other means will then make it more expensive to curb climate change. This is something we want to rationalise. We would also increase harmful taxes, such as sugar tax, mining tax, plastic tax and air tax. With this money, our biggest contribution, for which we are proposing more money, is knowledge, education, of which the most important items of funding we are presenting are universities and vocational education. In addition, we would spend more than 400 million on combating poverty, such as extending the basic income test, raising the level of student support, raising the level of guarantee pensions and indexing social benefits. According to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, this would clearly narrow the income gap and in fact increase the disposable income of all other categories of income, except the income of a tenth of the highest income. In this debate, representatives of the Coalition Party, Mr Vikman, have repeatedly pointed out that the calculation model of the parliamentary information service provides an estimate that this would increase unemployment. Well, this is the property of its calculation model. But the big investments we would make in education, research and the development of skills are employment-enhancing issues. Among other things, they improve the so-called problem of matching in the labour market, that is to say, by training the unemployed too, by improving their vocational training, by creating a more skilled workforce for businesses and by eliminating the gap between the skills of the unemployed and the labour needs of companies at present. Employment would also be improved by free upper secondary school and vocational training, free early childhood education for five-year-olds and a reform of family leave to make it more equal and more employment-friendly for women, to which the Greens in their alternative budget put 120 million. In addition, we are proposing additional funding for improving biodiversity and development cooperation. This funding for development cooperation is also part of our contribution to climate change mitigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u267	Mr President! The Finnish Parliament Group is concerned about the safety of citizens. In the global world, security threats are increasingly diverse. They may vary from crimes committed by individuals even to harassment by other states. Thus, the alternative budget of the Finns Party makes significant contributions to the personnel needs of the National Guard Police, the Central Criminal Police, the Defence Forces, the Emergency Response Centre Office, the Border Guard and Customs. We want to ensure that the safety of citizens is not compromised. Last week it was reported that in one out of four municipalities the police have not been able to solve any thefts. Smaller property offences are virtually not investigated. This is the direct result of too little police resources. The number of police officers has decreased from around 7800 in the 2010s to 7200 now established. Based on the development of the number of police officers, Finland will have approximately 122 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants in 2020. In the other Nordic countries, the figure is at least 200. In the alternative budget, we therefore propose EUR 50 million for training and hiring 800 police officers. During this parliamentary term, investments in the resources of the police and the Defence Forces have been made in the right direction. However, too much of the money goes to the ever-increasing costs of real estate. Safety authorities should not have to weaken their capacity to perform statutory tasks due to increasing farm costs. Mr President! Immigration takes place especially in undeveloped areas where citizens are difficult to adapt to Finnish culture, learn language with difficulty and are difficult to employ. This type of immigration only undermines the dependency ratio and highlights the difficulties in the labour market. In addition, these cultures often become practices and practices incompatible with Finnish society. These include discrimination on grounds of religion, sex or sexual orientation and direct violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u270	Mr President! This approach, in which the budgetary options of the opposition parties are discussed together and in the same session, seems to me to be a very good and successful practice. It makes it possible to compare the options of the government and the options of the various parties and at the same time see the political differences in planning for the future. However, when we talk about the budget for the coming year, I believe that its impact should be assessed over a longer period than just the effects that will follow next year. For example, the harvest of good family policy will only be harvested after the children have grown up, and we have had that problem with family policy, and it is still that when it is planned for four years or a year, the children will not even get out of the day-care centre, let alone adulthood, and will benefit society as if with their work during this one parliamentary term or one budget year. A better family leave model, which has been discussed here, is not one where the freedom of choice of families is reduced, where the right to home care for young children is restricted or even scrapped, where the child does not have the right to hold his own mother or father. Yes, fathers and mothers know best what is the best place for the day care of their own child. I mean, kids are individuals, right? Some children need longer home care, while others adapt to groups of children at an earlier stage. I therefore believe that the way in which families organise their day care should not be guided, as it were, by the administration, but should allow families to make choices. That is why the reform of the family leave that has been mentioned here has really failed, and I acknowledge to the government that it has not been brought here. But there is cause for reproach for the government’s failure to respond to the downward spiral of the birth rate. When the family minister was correctly appointed by name, the Minister for Family and Basic Services, there were high expectations, at least from the Christian Democrats. And, of course, it must be acknowledged that some minor improvements have been made for families. But I regret the fact that, at a time like this, for example, we are abolishing and abolishing the tax on the reduction of children, which was achieved during the last parliamentary term, and the indexation of child supplements has also been abandoned. Thus, the real value of child supplements continues to deteriorate, and child allowances are the most important family policy support and benefit. These are bad messages for families wishing to have children, and I therefore hope that the alternatives that the Christian Democrats' alternative budget is putting forward to improve family policy will be taken seriously and supported when the budget is finally decided here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u271	Mr President! This debate on alternative budgets has, in my view, been very confusing. It must be admitted that the opening up of Christian Democrats and demars, for example, to prevent youth unemployment and social exclusion, was a good idea. They are certainly worth taking forward, whatever the government may be at the end of the next year, because the fight against youth unemployment and exclusion in this society must be taken seriously at all times. It's obvious. But when you look at the alternative budget for demars, for example, the alternatives that I cannot possibly understand are precisely this accumulation of the revenue side of the budget. While the Bank of Finland's money is still running there and once again cleaning up Sitra's balance sheet, it can only be sad. Is it really the case that such a policy bitcoin game is being played all the time, as Mr Ala-Nissilän said somewhere, that such a policy bitcoin game is being played. If a budget is drawn up, then revenue must be real revenue and expenditure must be such that it is at least reasonable but certainly not wasteful. If we want the credibility of our speeches and actions in Parliament, then we should also draw attention to those own proposals. In any case, when this government began its work, the employment rate in this country was 67.7. At present it is 71.7% and, as Prime Minister Sipilä has said, the employment rate of the next government should be 75%. And we all need to remember that every single percentage point that is won at the employment rate means 30,000 jobs and 1.4 billion plus public finances. With these figures in mind, there is already a lot longer than in the initial situation when you go on to improve government or public finances. The debate on the abolition of entrepreneurship reduction was once again raised by the alternative demars budget. Listening to the demars ’ speeches, one could only wonder that it seems to be being backed up by millionaires again. It is clear that when, at the time, 2014, a corporate tax reform was carried out and 4.5 percentage points of corporate tax was dropped, someone of course benefited from it too. That decision also probably supported Finnish employment, but it leaves these company companies and small entrepreneurs completely excluded. That's why we had to do this, and it's right that it was done. And when you look at who the benefit came from this entrepreneurial discount, most of it goes to traders who earn less than EUR 55000. Most of them go there. And of those well - spoken millionaires: There were 275 more than EUR 300,000 of them, the entrepreneurs. The benefit for these 275 was EUR 6.4 million, 2.2 per cent of the total pot. That when it comes to millionaires and billions, sometimes you should look at those numbers. It is not just populism that improves the economy of the state or the municipalities or anyone's economy. And then the success of the business: It is said that companies will make EUR 12 billion in profits this year and will then be distributed a dividend — as I recall, Mr Arhinmäki made a big speech here, well done. However, I was forced to think that if companies do not make profits, they will not develop and pay wages or invest in the future. I have not seen any company that is investing in a future that is losing money and is on the verge of bankruptcy, rather there is a reduction in the workforce and getting ready to stop. As far as the matter of forests is concerned, Mr President, the model of the slope in the management and logging of forests is completely outside my understanding. 72.4 million mots are said to be a roof, and every single mott in the 72.4 goes to existing factories, both for pulped floors, sawmills and many other uses. There are no more raw materials available for any factory — not enough for Finnpulp in Kuopio, not enough for Kemijärvi pulp mill and not enough for the possible rising GFN oil plant in Lieksa and not enough for the development of the Swimmingharju plant. In the case of this message, even supporters of demarians living in these localities should wonder whether this is the way to put investment plans into multiplicity. I would like to see the figures presented honest in their order of magnitude and, above all, recognition of the facts. All the forestry activities that take place in Finland’s forests are for the benefit of Finns. Most of the beneficiaries are urban forest owners. Finally, Mr President, most importantly, all these machines used to repair wood in forests are Finnish work. Industrial sawmills, pulp machines, all are Finnish work. So please, ladies and gentlemen, do not go against Finnish work. It is the most important thing that Finnish people get a job, and in this parliamentary term more than 100,000 Finns have got a job, and its development must continue if one day we are going to pay off our debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u273	Mr President! Based on previous years’ experience, it was predictable that the right-wing side would attack the SDP's alternative budget by claiming that it was economically irresponsible and unsustainable. It is claimed that there are no credible proposals to cover the necessary investments and expenditure increases. This is a desperate attempt by the government parties to nullify a socially, ecologically and economically responsible entity. Anyone genuinely familiar with our proposal cannot escape the fact that the SDP does not fall short of false electoral promises. Our alternative looks to the future responsibly. There is not enough talk in this Chamber about the fact that one of the most important differences in the economic policies of the right-wing and left-wing parties relates to the basis for taxation and why. Taxation is also closely linked to industrial and employment policies. So you can see the difference of sight in the relationship. The SDP wants to ensure that economic policy is effective, fair and does not increase inequalities. The taxation of the SDP is fiscal in nature. It therefore aims to finance public services that support well-being and growth. This is the exact opposite of a government that has not used taxation as an effective tool for this task. Tax solutions have not brought the objectives forward. Even less has been promoted by cuts in education, social well-being and services. This should be taken for granted. Budgetary policy must be geared to cyclical expectations, and that is what the SDP is doing. We owe over half a billion less than the government. Future investment needed for productivity growth simply cannot afford, either economically or humanly, to fail. Social investment is essential, because without it we can forget the objectives of raising employment rates and safeguarding public finances in the longer term too. The investments put forward by the SDP are self-recovery — they are self-recovery. The Government does not understand the difference between sustainability investments and operating expenditure. In the opinion of the SDP, industrial policy must be based on creating new growth, strengthening the knowledge base and promoting diversified exports. Economic policy must create new jobs. Economic sustainability is the sum of many things. It requires an active industrial policy, a tax policy that promotes justice and productivity, a smart employment policy, a future education policy and a social policy that definitely upholds equality. If any of these elements are missing, there is no point in expecting a result. The government has weakened the bedrock of our national economy by using its tax solutions to undermine the basis of public finances. They have no employment-enhancing effects. Under the SDP option, the majority of income increases come from the consolidation of the tax base and the taxation of the return on assets. Sticking to the Bank of Finland or cleaning up Sitra’s balance sheet, quoting the terms used by representatives of the government parties, is clinging to lilukanvarsi,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u276	Mr President! There is a limit — the Finns of Peru have a patriotic alternative. Mr Ala-Nissilä took a stand here on the rise of European patriotic and nationalist parties. In Austria, for example, they are already in the grip of power. Do you know why this is happening? It's because things have gone wrong. The results have not been such as to please the people. It is incomprehensible that in Pakistan, for example, a Christian who mocked Muhammad was sentenced to death. He was released from it, but, for example, he cannot apply for asylum in Great Britain because there has been an immigration policy that would make the extremists angry about it. It's come to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u283	Mr President! I don't know if the previous speaker's papers were left here, but I'm certainly not going to use them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u288	Mr President! I would like to return to this shadow budget of the SDP and there to this point where we talk about revenue for next year. In the ‘Structural reforms,savings andimprovements’ section,the revenue generated by the Digitalisation and Operating Reform of the Administration was recorded at EUR200 million for the first year. Now that the present government has been working on this digitalisation and operating reforms of the administration and has saved quite a bit of money from it, in my opinion, and every stone has been translated and the proceeds have been obtained, it would really be inspiring to hear now what the wise men's stone in the SDP still has, which will generate a further EUR 200 million in revenue from the government budget in the form of the digitalization and operating reform of the administration. If there is a representative of the SDP here, then with interest I would hear that detailed explanation, because I am sure that if such a detailed report is obtained, the Ministry of Finance will gladly make these 200 million available next year. So tell me, please. Or is this also the source of income the same nonsense and the same sdp economic policy, which is based mainly on imagination, wishful thinking and someone else's paying?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u289	Mr President! The alternative budget for the Finns is realistic, the only one actually in this Chamber. Everyone, including Ala-Nissilä, should learn more about how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u294	Mr President! It is interesting to listen to this debate. I myself said of the lack of participation that there is also a great deal of non-participation in society, that there is regional inequality, inequality in the distribution of income, social and educational inequality. Fortunately, employment has improved a lot, and it is one of the best medicines for this. But for us and the world, this lack of participation has led to an increase in populist power, and I fear that there will be no help there. It seems that in Sweden democracy has frozen, in Italy the economy is going to the wall and so on. President! In actual fact, about the Social Democrats' tax line, which has varied here: I calculated that this is already the fourth tax paper that is being presented to us. However, in tax policy predictability, stability is important. Don't be coy. When I listen to Mr Harakka, and when an entrepreneur listens to Mr Harakka, then I do not know, it only creates uncertainty in this economy. It is good that we are active, but we also need stability and long-termism. Now the SDP would increase taxation. The fact that the overall tax rate has now been falling for a long time is a good thing. It was blackmailed during the previous parliamentary term, and the results were rather poor in the economy. We need, of course, tax revenue, but now we need a moderate tax reform. We are making a road map of taxation on income tax and corporate taxation, and that gives us the prospect of a moderate reform of taxation. It is also important, President, to be fair, and it is then that, for example, the taxation of dividends from certain public interest entities, or the taxation of foreign dividends and investment taxation can also be considered when the next government programme is being carried out. Justice is important. Low tax rates, a tight tax base, fairness and incentive taxation are the lines that the centre drives and really wants to invest in this employment, because it is the big picture that, together with our other reforms, will enable economic equilibrium and prevent the need for a cheese planer in these important sections from saving savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u295	Mr President! The themes of the very diverse alternative budget of the Finns Party include defending the national interests of Finns. We offer work, security and justice to Finns. Our alternative budget is clearly more balanced than the government's budget proposal, and our objective in the coming years is to put an end to government debt. Finns applying for significant savings, such as immigration costs, unnecessary corporate subsidies and development cooperation. It is already possible to save hundreds of millions of euros from them alone, and in the long term the savings will be even greater. Some of the savings that will be made would be targeted at a number of areas that are important from the perspective of the Finns, of which I will highlight just a few. The Finns Party wants to ensure the safety of everyone in Finland. Finland is a safe Finland with both internal and external security. For example, the number of field police officers has been on a worrying decline for years, and it is necessary to train and hire new police officers in the field to ensure the safety of everyday life. We also make a significant contribution to the personnel needs of the Emergency Response Centre, the Protection Police, the Central Crime Police, the Border Guard and Customs. This will prevent drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and financial crime, among other things. At the same time, the fight against the shadow economy, for example, will generate significant additional revenue for the state. Mr President! True Finns want to strengthen the position of family carers who work in a highly valuable human and social way. Without them, many elderly and long - term ill would have to move from home to institutional care. We are therefore proposing the conversion of informal care into tax-free income and, to this end, an increase of EUR 20 million in the state budget. In addition, we are proposing to remove the share of responsibility for medicines from low-income citizens. We regard as unsustainable a situation in which many poor people have to choose between food and medicines. The Finns of Peru would also return the dietary allowance for celiacists, and we also propose an investment of EUR 2 million in the support of the government's food aid organisations last Christmas. Mr President! Preventing the exclusion of children and young people is very important for Finns. We propose, among other things, an additional EUR 10 million for organisations, mental health work for young people and the prevention of bullying, and an additional EUR 2 million for the exercise of deprived children and young people. In their alternative budget, Finns also have extensive investments in education, totalling EUR 180 million. In particular, we want to invest in training Finnish young people and the unemployed in those areas where more labour is needed in the future. There is therefore no need to give up the consideration of the availability of foreign labour, even though it has been flashed again in the speeches here today. At the same time, the risk of exclusion for Finnish young people is reduced. Mr President! Finnish handheld income has a significant impact on domestic demand and employment. We are proposing, among other things, a reduction in the lower thresholds for property taxation, a reduction in fuel taxation and a reduction in electricity transmission charges. Our presentation would often reduce the costs of living, as would the costs of moving. Mr President! Finnish work, industry and companies are absolutely worth defending. For example, we would offer tax carrots to small and medium-sized enterprises that employ new labour, and otherwise we want to reduce taxation more than the government does. In addition to the EUR 300 million reduction in income tax, we have earmarked EUR 50 million for a budget to reduce the tax burden on pensions to the same level as that on employees. Mr President! Many Finns have made a long career in low-paid employment, and we also consider the safeguarding of adequate earnings-related pension to be an important issue of social justice for them. We propose a step-by-step correction of the folded index of occupational pensions, which was laid down by the Lipponen Government in due course, particularly in the case of small and medium-sized occupational pensions. The model would increase all occupational pensions more than the current folded index, but the benefits would be higher for those receiving small occupational pensions. Our model would introduce a so-called mid-term index for the first EUR 1000 of the monthly pension income of each beneficiary. And, Mr President, at the end of the day, the Finns of Peru want to invest in the long-term future of Finland and Finns. We are proposing EUR 70 million The taxation abolished by the Sipilä government at the end of last year in return for the child reduction. This can mean an increase of up to EUR 400 per year in net income for the family. We must do what we can for the future of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u296	Mr President! In its alternative budget, the SDP proposes five major reforms and five important investments. Our options are forward-looking, crucial to the major challenges of the future and a fair alternative to socially, economically and environmentally sustainable development. One of our five reforms is the reform of family leave for the benefit of gender equality and family welfare. The sitting government was unable to reform because the conditions it laid down were unrealistic and contradictory. The SDP, on the other hand, is serious about this and we are ready to reform family leave, even if it is now. The current family leave system maintains structural inequality between the sexes. The accumulation of care responsibilities almost exclusively for mothers weakens both the position of women in working life and the position of fathers as parents. In women, the sexual orientation of family leave is reflected in lower pay levels, lower opportunities for advancement, precarious working life and eventually lower pensions. For men, it is seen, for example, as a weaker position in custody arrangements in divorce situations and in the fact that family leave may not necessarily be considered, even if one wishes. How, then, should family leave be renewed? The key words of the SDP's family leave model are flexibility, equality and consideration of the diversity of families. The model would divide the benefits into three parts: maternity allowance, earnings-related parental allowance and parental allowance in euro. Maternity allowance guarantees the mother 28 days of earnings-related leave, which can start according to the individual situation. This corresponds to the part of the current maternity allowance paid before the birth of the child. The SDP model extends the earnings-related parental allowance period gradually to 16 months. This will be progressed gradually by extending the earmarked daily allowance periods for parents and the period to be shared between parents. Our aim is to achieve a more even distribution of free people between the sexes. The families themselves agree on how to keep the free. It is possible for a single parent to use all periods of leave himself. In principle, a three-month period of leave cannot be transferred to the other parent, but, for example, when the other parent is ill, it is possible to transfer the leave in a flexible way. The SDP model takes into account the diversity of families and treats different families equally. In addition to earnings-related leave, our model provides families with an equal year of parental allowance, during which the family receives a monthly parental allowance of EUR 600. It is also possible to distribute the benefit flexibly over a longer period of time in such a way that the total amount remains the same, e.g. until the child reaches the age of three. Parents can use parental allowance in euro simultaneously for one month. It is also possible to transfer parental allowance in euro to a grandparent, for example, when he remains to care for the child. A significant improvement in the current model is the flexibility of the SDP model. The amount of parental allowance in the euro can be fully halved and distributed over different periods and can be freely used at selected times until the child reaches the age of 10. The division can be flexible and thus allow you to return to work part-time, for example. An earnings-related daily allowance may also be paid after the parental allowance in euro or between periods in euro. Mr President! Our family leave model promotes equality and the reconciliation of work and family life. The main beneficiaries of the model are the families where both parents use parental leave more equally than before and the families where the child moves to day care after about two years of age. Of course, this is something that families can solve themselves. All families benefit from the flexibility of the model and better reconciliation of family life and work. Reforming family leave is so important for society and for the realisation of equality that we simply cannot afford to fail to do so. A more balanced distribution of family leave between the sexes would improve the position of women in the labour market and in society and the position of men in families and parents, and would facilitate the child’s proximity to and care for both parents from an early age. That is why the reform of family leave is one of the five major reforms of our alternative budget. Together with the comprehensive development of early childhood education, it is a central objective of the SDP for the next government term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u297	Mr President! I originally wanted to use the reply to Mr Hakkarainen's speech, but when it was not possible to have a debate on that point, even though Mr Hakkarainen has left the Chamber, I would nevertheless like to comment on some of his arguments. He strongly attacked development organizations here, and it was very sad because I believe that Mr Hakkarainen too is well acquainted with some of the organizations of Christian background that are doing extremely valuable development cooperation, but also so that the same workers are serving as missionaries in their own time and are also assisting persons in the local congregations. In that sense, it was almost bad that Mr Hakkarainen, in this way, noted the extremely valuable work done by these organisations. On the other hand, there is this kind of illogicality in the line of the Finns, when they are so strongly critical of development funds, because yet the same funds are also used for this humanitarian aid and, among other things, to improve the situation in refugee camps. It is a message that we do not want people here on a regular basis, but we do not want to help them anywhere else, and that is the peak of illogicalism in some way. One might imagine that the situation in these refugee camps, for example, is being made easier so that such pressure does not come from there, and then, on the one hand, using the quota refugee system, it would be the most sensible thing to do and, could it be said, the best way to help the most needy people? The people most vulnerable would then be taken and able to help them. But, of course, if the idea in the human image is that not all men are our neighbors and are not likewise created or equal by the Creator, then of course this type of idea can come to fruition. But this was very confusing to me when Mr Hakkarainen had some backgrounds I know and know, and I would have liked him to have been able to participate in this debate when I know that in these organisations, if where, valuable work is being done. Indeed, in the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats, for example, we have assumed that it is precisely these NGOs' contribution to development cooperation, because they do grassroots work, they know the local conditions, they have those contacts there at local level, and I personally hope that in this Finnish financing of development cooperation, the role of these organisations could be even stronger in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u298	Mr President! We Greens want our alternative budget to translate Finland's direction and build a future in which climate change is combated with greater ambition. We say that the forthcoming parliamentary elections are climate elections and the parties must make their own decisions. We also want to make Finnish education the best in the world, and we therefore invest significantly in all levels of education. We want to stop cutting from the poor. It's a choice of values that we didn't have to make. We want to improve the situation of poor people immediately. And we want to build Finland, where human value choices are also made in the state budget, so that the questions of Finnish nature, global responsibility and equality are also shown there. Mr President! Our alternative budget is a balanced proposal in relation to the government proposal. So we don't take any more debt. It shows that a different policy than we have seen during this regime is possible. We collect about 1.5 billion more taxes and increase the budget by the same amount. We're taxing the work like the government. We will increase taxes on dividends, inheritances and owner-occupied housing, among other things, but we will reduce taxation on low incomes. We would also introduce new so-called harmful taxes, such as sugar tax, mining tax, air tax and plastic tax. These are steps towards curbing over-consumption and also partly reducing emissions. In total, we would reduce environmentally harmful and inefficient subsidies to more than EUR 800 million. Mr President! I would like to return to that debate on jobs and the employment impact of the green alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u301	Mr President! I think it is appropriate to respond to this speech by Mrs Essayah, in which she, admittedly, made quite a few points in her assessment of the concept of the people of Peru and also of Mr Hakkarainen, in which I think the representative rightly criticises the effectiveness of development aid or, in fact, its inefficiency. Representative Essayah also felt that the Finns themselves would not want to support at all the development aid work carried out by Finnish organisations. In the view of the Finns, development cooperation has a role to play, for example, in improving the level of education in the target countries, but, as is stated in our alternative budget, the effectiveness and focus of development aid needs to be changed. I will now read a short quote on page 7 of our alternative budget, ‘The Finns of Finland want to increase the weight of Finnish performance organisations in the development cooperation fund’s operations. The focus on development aid will be shifted through tax carrots to voluntary donations and transparency of development cooperation needs to be increased in order to monitor the effectiveness of operations and to concentrate money on the most efficient and useful actors.” In my opinion, it is quite clear from this that we are in favour of development cooperation by these Finnish organisations, and so, in general, our view is that development cooperation should be carried out in the future, but it must be done in a much more efficient and cost-effective way, and that is what we think this model of ours will lead to if it is introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u302	Mr President! The SDP’s alternative budget really supports sustainable development. It is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable. One indication of this is the phenomenon-based budgeting that we have strongly included in our alternative budget. There is a large entity here, among other things, to combat climate change and safeguard biodiversity. I very much hope that the representatives of the government parties and the government will study our alternative budget carefully and draw from it the important issues that are critical for the future and sustainability of our society. Climate change and the loss of biodiversity are one of the greatest threats for the future of our people, and every one of us in this Chamber — not just those present but every 200 Members of Parliament — must take this seriously, and together we must find solutions to these major challenges. In this alternative budget, we have brought many options, many solutions to solve these large entities and we have dealt with this issue extensively, both from the point of view of economic governance and from the point of view of housing, transport, sustainable transition and many other entities. This is a common big challenge, and it is therefore important that this is strongly on our agenda, and I hope that other parties share this concern and also want to look at this issue in particular with regard to their own options. One more thing I would like to raise here: It is not such a big investment in euros, we are proposing an increase of EUR 100000 in funding for the climate panel. But I would like to make a point of saying that, in future, the role of the climate panel should perhaps be broadened in such a way that the climate perspective of economic policy and economic analysis should also be better taken into account. In other words, the role of the climate panel could be broadened in order to provide political decision-makers with better economic and economic information in support of decision-making, i.e. what kind of economic solutions we need, what kind of economic governance we need in order to address this whole and this huge challenge for the future as effectively as possible. So this is an idea, an act. This idea is not yet so strongly involved in our alternative budget, but I am sure we will.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u303	President! Of course, these tax solutions are also relevant to what has been done with the budget. It raised the pension income deduction, raised the basic deduction. Both of these plus table amendments are precisely for the benefit of pensioners who pay taxes, so that their situation has been taken into account in this way, and of course the guarantee pension will rise and the daily allowance will rise and so on. Today, the National Audit Office published a report on tax subsidies. It stated that, in general, it is necessary to consider whether it is the best tax subsidy in terms of its effectiveness. Often when the budget frameworks are tight, it is possible to act through taxation. For example, air tax: Finland is an island, and experience in Sweden shows that its air tax should be very high in order to be effective. Could we achieve greater effectiveness by investing heavily in biofuels in air transport, by investing heavily in electric aircraft and so on? President! There is really no alternative to this debate, and I think that if there were to be a common compromise between these various parties, there would not be much left of them. Now, however, the government has left a very difficult situation, 6 billion came from debt per year, a strategic government programme, it has been able to balance public finances and, above all, it has been able to raise the employment rate very significantly, and this government line must be continued. Now, during the new parliamentary term, we have the opportunity to continue this line, by raising the employment rate, indeed to get this kind of inclusive economic growth, to involve people, and also to improve these smaller benefits. Now that we have done this big job, a big positive turn in this parliamentary term, it is possible. I personally appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u304	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Savilo, he slightly softened these positions as far as Mr Hakkarainen's mouth was concerned. Yes, Mr Hakkarainen said that the work that is being done in these organisations has no meaning whatsoever, or did he say any value at all, but it did seem to me to be a very harsh comment when he has seen the effectiveness of its work and how important it has also been in helping these local conditions and people. But in this speech I thought, in a few words, about the revenue side of the alternative budget, because most of the time this debate here will focus on the way in which we would like to direct this expenditure differently. It is important for the Christian Democrats to show that taxation can also have a guiding effect, and that is why for us such harmful taxes have always been the way to make tax policies, and in our alternative budget the sugar tax is involved. It must be remembered that during this term of government, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health unanimously gave an opinion to the Committee on Finance on the need to consider the introduction of a sugar tax. If it is thought that, indeed, this kind of statement by the government and opposition parties was issued during this term of government, then this is confusing that why the government has not taken up this issue, why this sugar tax has not gone forward. This model of ours is specifically about added sugar, which means that we would not, of course, be taxing such naturally sugar-containing products. Then, too, for these energy drinks, whose adverse effects have been much discussed, especially in the case of young people, we would like to introduce such an excise duty, which we would like to see at a price also having a controlling effect on it. On the alcohol tax side, a little extra increase, more than the government. In fact, one evening there was a good debate about the tax deductibility of the contributions of employees' organisations and employers' organisations, and our proposal is that the tax deductibility of these contributions should be halved in the employee associations, i.e. that it would become such a exclusivity, while in the case of employers' organisations it would be abolished in its entirety. As has been the case here, it is not in any way against organisation or against any of these fundamental rights, but, in fact, it is quite right, from a fiscal point of view, to take on this kind of ownership also in these contributions, when compared with other different tax deductions, in terms of equity. Since then, the fight against the shadow economy has been very moderate in assessing these returns and then housing support, both for students and for students.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u305	Mr President! In my recent speeches, I addressed the major reforms of our alternative budget, in particular the issue of family leave reform and then the phenomenon-based budgeting model. As an example, I raised the issue of climate and the environment. But one more pick I would like to make out of this alternative budget, which is to secure national support for violence and the operation of shelters. Middle-partner violence is the largest human rights problem in Finland and one of the most serious. Far too many people, regardless of socio-economic background, age, gender, have to live in the midst of violence, either as a victim or in some other way in the middle of it — such as a child living in a violent family. This is a major social issue, this is a major human rights issue, but unfortunately the governments, neither this government nor previous governments, have done enough to remedy this major problem. That is why, in our alternative budget, this issue has also been raised and we want to continue with the obligations that Finland has undertaken under the Istanbul Convention, namely to reduce violence, prevent it and tackle it more effectively. We need more shelters, and in addition to these, we need better services and low-threshold services for people living in the midst of violence. We must tackle these problems in time, and its support must be very comprehensive, because the forms of violence are also truly comprehensive and restricting human life to a wide range of human distress. Violence can be physical, psychological, sexual, economic, a wide range of controls, from persecution to persecution to the most serious acts of violence. Even about 20 women a year die as a result of intimate and partner violence. This is a very serious and worrying issue, and we must also treat it as politicians with great seriousness, and that is why we simply need more resources. This is also an economic issue. Middle-partner violence has a significant economic impact on society, both in social and health care and in the activities of public authorities. It is also an economic interest — a human interest, of course, for every person, but also for the nation — to intervene. Better resources will be made available for services, prevention and people's easy access to security and people's easy access to a life that does not mean they have to fear and live in the midst of violence, rather than resources will be made available for the serious consequences of violence. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-14-ps-114.u306	Mr President! I will continue with some of this revenue side, i.e. how we would cover the costs when, at the end of the previous speech, I had to hurry. It is important that in the coming period, as has been the case here, we should reform our social security system, and one of the subjects of reform that is challenging in many ways is the reform of housing allowance. But there is one thing about housing allowance that could be quite easily repaired, and this is the restoration of property limits to general housing allowance. This is actually rather confusing, it was only in these studies that it was discovered that we really do not have such a property limit in terms of housing support. And it seems that, even in the capital region, such direct exploitation can be seen from the absence of the property limit for this housing allowance. So people trick their lives into making their incomes so low that they receive housing allowance while at the same time they may have housing wealth. This is very confusing as to why and how it is possible that such a gap has remained under the conditions of housing allowance. On the other hand, this refund of the housing allowance for students: This entry into the general housing allowance has also resulted in this kind of group-room housing being underestimated, which in the past was very common that students shared the same dwelling. But since Kela started to interpret that these people in the same apartment also form a common relationship, and then went on to influence these subsidies, it has caused a great many students to go to the studios and want expensive apartments in the centers to buy for themselves, which in turn has raised the rent level and has caused this reform, which was supposed to be cost-neutral, to have brought additional costs to the state from 80 to 100 million — it was admitted by the Minister of Finance Orpo. So we didn't know exactly what we were doing. But in order to really get compensation for that aspect of the student economy, we have then presented the 40 million we would like to bring here for the increase in the student grant, and then also the additions to apprenticeships, workshops and outreach youth work. And above all, I can say that this KD training package is closer to 250 million, which includes improving the funding of universities, universities of applied sciences, vocational education institutions, and also increasing the compensation for the municipality of residence of these private schools and reducing the size of early childhood education and basic education groups by 50 million.
