ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u1	The only discussion will be on Day 2 issue, the Government's communication on the Government's employment policy and the lowering of the employment threshold in small enterprises. The debate on the communication ended at the plenary session on 16 October 2018. In the debate, Eero Heinäluoma Heli Järvinen, supported by Leena Meri Ville Tavio, has put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u2	First, we will vote against Mrs Eero Heinäluoma's proposal and then on whether the Government will enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u4	Madam President! Today's proposal is based on the Government Programme's objectives to clarify the housing-based social security system [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The work on housing-based social security and the preparation of the Government's proposal were carried out as one of the leading projects. The preparatory work was carried out in a broad-based working group involving social partners, various ministries and executive authorities and a number of experts to be consulted. The preparation takes into account all aspects of the complex national legal framework, fundamental rights and EU legislation. The preparatory work has concluded that it is still important to stick to the main principles of the system. These include housing, tax funding and equality. The reform has also highlighted the balance between rights and obligations, i.e. those receiving benefits will contribute to the financing of the system. Mr President! The new law defines when a person is considered to be resident in Finland. According to EU legislation, people who come to work in Finland cannot be required to live there. That is why the law also defines what kind of work in Finland is sufficient to obtain housing-based benefits. The existing legislation has been exceptionally generous in international comparisons for people moving abroad from Finland. It is appropriate to further restrict the system to those who are in Finland’s jurisdiction and physically here. Temporary stay abroad could take up to six months. Living in the EU is assessed according to EU legislation. Repeatedly every year, you can stay abroad approximately half of the year and continue to be covered by health insurance in Finland, for example. In practice, this change does not affect the position of those who receive a pension from Finland and reside in another EU country, but Finland is responsible for their social security, as it has been until now. For entrepreneurs, the status quo remains, i.e. there will continue to be the possibility of receiving housing-based social security while the pension insurance is valid for a maximum of one year of residence. The possibility for posted workers, researchers and grant beneficiaries to receive housing-based social security for a longer period of time abroad would in future be limited to a maximum of five years. This is a shortening of the current period, but is usually the maximum period laid down in the bilateral social security agreements concluded by Finland. Students have the possibility to receive housing benefits and to be insured for as long as full-time studies continue. In the future, the right of employees coming to Finland to housing benefits will be assessed more strictly on the basis of their work. Today we apply the so-called four-month rule, which means that in order to qualify for housing-based social security benefits, an employee entering Finland must have an employment contract with a duration of at least four months. This has led to interpretations in the public debate that this would be a four-month waiting period and only then would a person be entitled to social security. However, this view is wrong. The four-month contract of employment and the criteria for calculating the working conditions of unemployment benefit have jointly led to the employee being entitled to social security from the start of work. The rule applies to some of the social security benefits implemented by Kela, the main ones being child benefit and health insurance. For example, employees have been entitled to occupational pension insurance, public health care services and child home care allowance until now if they were under occupational pension insurance. In addition, the monthly earnings of approximately EUR 58 are sufficient. In the future, in the case of an employee, earnings corresponding to the monthly amount of the basic daily allowance would be required, i.e. EUR 696.60 per month this year, but there is no requirement for a minimum duration of work or a contract of employment. At present, if there is no collective agreement in the sector, the minimum limit for part-time work will be around EUR 594 per month, i.e. the minimum limit would now rise by around EUR 100. Employees are entitled to housing-based benefits during the period when they earn sufficient income from Finland. When the work ends, the benefits also end. Up-to-date information on work and income comes from the Incomes Register, which means that employees are not left with social security, so to speak. The implementation of the earnings criterion would significantly reduce the administrative costs of the current ones when the earnings could be checked in the Incomes Register and without the need for employment contracts and other studies. Workers who are covered by social security are also covered by insurance contributions. The sickness insurance contribution covers the costs of sickness allowance and medical allowances. The law has been clarified in such a way as to make it easier for everyone to understand their own rights. In addition, the conditions for living have been harmonised so that there are not many different definitions for different services and benefits. Mr President! Administrative procedures will be simplified. In this respect, it is also a matter of dismantling standards. The Incomes Register and the possibility of using digital services will be better exploited. In the future, Kela will decide on the fulfilment of the conditions for working or living in the context of the decision on benefits, and will no longer make separate decisions about being included in housing-based social security. As a result, the proposal as a whole will also achieve savings of EUR 0.4 million for next year, and then half a million euros on an annual basis compared to the current situation. There are often misconceptions that Finnish security is also the best option for travelling around the world, but in reality, Finnish services or compensation cannot be taken abroad as such, but are set for domestic needs and as part of the Finnish service system. The Social Insurance Institution is required to provide information on the basis of social security benefits for persons moving abroad in particular and to issue a decision at the request of the person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u5	Madam President! We are discussing housing-based social security, and there are many laws involved. I have received feedback, especially from pensioners who are concerned about their own future and who are a large group that goes abroad temporarily or repeatedly every year into the year. Most of them travel to countries that apply EU legislation, and I understand that the reduction in the proposed temporary stay would not affect their position, as their benefits and rights are safeguarded by the EU regulation. Have I understood correctly that for pensioners moving to countries other than those applying EU legislation, the proposal means that, during a stay of more than six months, housing-based benefits may be suspended and that the guarantee pension would not be paid for more than six months at a time if the pensioner did not return to Finland and continue to reside abroad afterwards?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u6	Madam President! There is now a situation in this proposal that this is a so-called bad break-up of standards. I have often praised the government here for these problems, but this proposal cannot be praised now. In particular, I would like to draw my attention to the situation of posted workers who are not in the EEA countries. These include those in development cooperation, those who work for many organizations, those in the congregations, those in the various denominations, and they are now going to have to go back to Finland after five years, even if the work in the country of destination is not finished. I therefore hope that, in committee, these workers, whose duties are related to humanitarian work, missionary work and similar work, will now be clearly limited so that their social security will not be cut off after five years, as is now being proposed here. I would now like to ask the Minister why we have chosen this kind of line, when Finland is a truly well-known benefactor in these matters and we have a traditional work that has been going on for hundreds of years, in which we are helping countries especially in Africa and Asia to improve their own living standards. These people are now being deprived of this social security if they remain in the country of destination, even though all their salaries and benefits are paid here in the country of origin and they are indeed these posted workers. I would like to ask you to be more specific about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u7	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes to introduce a new law on housing-based social security in cross-border situations. According to this bill, immigrants in Finland would be required to respond to labour shortages, to improve the deteriorating dependency ratio as a result of the ageing of the population, and to increase Finland's attractiveness to international experts and entrepreneurs. This law would define the minimum working conditions for applying housing-based benefit legislation to an employee coming to Finland. If a person moves to Finland as an employee, his or her right to residence-based rights, benefits, would as a general rule be determined on the basis of his or her work. Mr President! With this proposal, the Government intends to remove the current four-month working requirement for foreigners coming to Finland, which has so far been a prerequisite for receiving social benefits. In the future, a foreigner would be able to enjoy Finland’s social benefits if he earns the basic daily allowance. In the event of this proposal, the employee could also be entitled to housing benefits, such as child benefit and health insurance, during the working period of less than four months. The number of people working in Finland for a short period of less than four months is estimated to be around 17,000, but it is likely that their number will increase significantly if this legal change takes place. Mr President! If immigrants are forced to rely on income transfers instead of paying taxes, immigration does not improve but weakens the dependency ratio in Finland. It is therefore likely that this government proposal will increase the attractiveness of immigration in an unsustainable way for the national economy. In addition, there has been repeated proposals to dismantle the availability of foreign labour from the ranks of the government parties. However, Sweden, which has dismantled the examination of the availability of workers outside the EU and the EEA, is a warning example which we should learn from. In Sweden, labour has come mainly to sectors where there has already been an oversupply of labour. The Finns do not want Finland to follow Sweden's development in this respect and demand that the government defend the interests of Finland and Finns. Mr President! For example, much better decision-making and the correction of the dependency ratio would allow Finnish young people and unemployed people to be trained in professions where they have good employment opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u8	Madam President! It is easy to agree with the above discussions, both Finns committed to humanitarian work, when we are the kind of people we are recognized in the world. We also work elsewhere in the world and are a very humanitarian nation. I do not consider it reasonable that some restrictions should be imposed on these people who are involved in voluntary work and, at this point, it is necessary to say, are at risk. On the other hand, Mr Savio made the particularly important point that, at the time when our social security was first changed from living-based to a job contract, we reduced the possibility of being covered by earnings-related unemployment allowance — of course, we have working conditions in the unemployment allowance regulations that continue to monitor it. Now we are going one more step forward. When President Risikko was a minister, I asked a question about it — and a study was carried out — how much it would cost if a person wanted to buy Finnish social security for himself. It was not a very large sum if you want to do it by circumventing it, but it was EUR 32,000 that you could get with that little wager. I would like to ask the Minister: has there been any question of the contradiction between these two issues, of our departure and our desire, of our coming and our desire?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u9	Madam President! This current law has been in force since 94, i.e. indeed, as the Minister said, since the beginning of Finland’s Eta membership, and of course the world has changed a lot during that time. Mobility between countries has increased over the last couple of decades, which is why we are making it tighter. It is precisely the housing-based system that is limited to those who are in the jurisdiction of Finland and also physically here. If you think of the international experts mentioned here, of course most of the international experts coming to Finland are also highly educated internationally, so I do not see that there is a problem with immigration in that respect. Cheap labour is then another issue that needs to be addressed, but immigration is not a single entity that is either good or bad, but immigration is, of course, different. In this regard, the Minister pointed out that in the past the situation with regard to Finland has been exceptionally generous compared with other control countries, and now there are indeed tightening ups in this regard. Of this four-month rule, which Mr Savio, among other things, raised, it must be noted that this means, however, that you must always be working in Finland and also apply for social security. In other words, it does not automatically come to anyone, and no one automatically has a Kela card here to send but always has a separate decision to be included in social security and these benefits. This question is largely related to what is between the Nordic countries, and we have been trying here all the time to remove barriers to borders between the Nordic countries. There have now been such unreasonable situations that neither of us has received social security, for example in Sweden and Finland or in Norway. In other words, these situations are not reasonable either, and I do not believe that they are the situations that Mr Savio here would mean. We hardly have anything against Norwegian or Swedish workers now. And finally, as long as we blues are in the government, there will be no change in the demand for foreign labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u10	Mr President! Of course, it must be acknowledged that in the future more workers will certainly be needed in Finland as the population ages. However, there is a common practice in the EU to get labour even from third countries, such as the Blue Card, for example, to receive benefits and then to have these children in training places and other health care services, which are to be done by workers. Of course, this blue card now mainly affects these highly educated workers, and now, of course, we are in danger when we go to reduce these laws, that we will only receive more cheap labour, which is competing with existing workers for the same jobs. At this point, of course, you must ask the Minister: is there a danger, however, that Finland will be turned into a world social welfare office in a long run in this respect, that everyone will receive social security and housing allowance and Finnish health care and education services even if they have not worked in Finland at all? This long run leads to this very fact that it becomes a sort of attraction factor, as has become the attraction factor of this immigration issue, so that in relation to the population of Europe, perhaps almost the highest number of asylum seekers are applied for, even today, even though the so-called biggest crisis is already over. For some reason, it's the only place they want to come all the way to the North. Of course, we know ourselves, who live in this country and make decisions, that this Finland country is the best country in the world, that there is the world's best chance of trying and living, and then if you fail to succeed in working or entrepreneurship, then society will take care of all the families. However, there must be enough ‘self-employed’ for Finns to have to provide more and more of his funds for our own citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u11	Madam President! Looking back: In the early 1990s, we made it possible for Finnish posted workers, including those employed by development cooperation and broadcasting organisations, to be granted the right to Finnish social security. Then, when preparations were made for EU membership in 94, we moved from the citizenship system to the housing system, and in that context again the rights and status of these people, which are Finnish posted workers abroad, were weakened, often in countries with low living standards and low compensation. I remember that I then took a bill and collected signatures and, as I recall, got about 170 signatures from Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u14	Mr President! It must be said that Mr Niikko himself is right to be concerned about the situation of migration to Europe over the years, but, on the other hand, it is wrong to say that there is some particular pressure on Finland at the moment. After all, a few thousand new asylum applications were made last year, less than before the 2015 migration crisis. I share the concern that this should be followed up and that measures should be taken in the event of a change in the situation. But now it's better. And the most important reason why the situation is better is this refugee agreement between the EU and Turkey, which should definitely be maintained and, therefore, the good relationship between Turkey and the EU, although we are, of course, concerned about the development of the rule of law in Turkey. We have to comment to the extent that the objective here is good, that there should be a balance between rights and obligations: those who receive benefits also contribute to the financing of this system. That is why, as is the case in the proposal, it is precisely the strictest way to limit this housing-based system to those who are in Finland's jurisdiction and physically here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u15	Reply, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u16	Thank you, Mr President. At this stage, we have to answer Mrs Elo that the government has now lulled to the fact that asylum seekers will no longer be as many as in 2015, when 34,000 came, or 2016, still several thousands. However, we should not lull into it. In any event, we are prepared to have some 3,000 to 400,000 new asylum applications next year, at least according to the budget, and in practice that means that we have not made any legislative reforms or interpretations of these international agreements on freedom of movement, such as France. We will no longer walk directly from Italy to seek asylum, even if it is the first application in France when you go from Italy that has been made through its network. The next day they come back to Italy because France has come through a safe country. Such a policy was being implemented by the representative of Elo when he was still in the True Finns together, but it is no longer going to be carried out by the True Finns alone in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u17	Congressman Laukkanen, from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u18	Madam President! Indeed, I remember this time when Mr Kankaanniemi made this excellent initiative, and it collected, I remember, 176 names. I was an assistant to Kankaanniemi at the time. This is really going back real good. This development is by no means desirable. Just a practical example: Children who work in third countries are now forced to drop out of school, return here for a year and then return there again. This doesn't make any sense at all. Many roots and ties are already in the country where parents have left here, and now this whole practice would be confused. This is a big jump from 10 to 5 years. This means that thousands of people will have to return to Finland at the same time. This is not the kind of development that one would like to see promoted by Parliament, the Finnish civilised state.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u19	Madam President! In this context, I would like to point out something that I have tried to correct during several ministers, but which has not been corrected and where I hope that the current minister will be able to put the matter in order. It is a question of allowing the citizens of the countries of the European Union to come freely to other countries to work and to look for work, and that is, of course, quite right. But there is such a special situation in Finland that we have many EU citizens, mainly from Estonia, who live here on the basis of social security. It is understandable that if you have come here to work and then you have stopped working, then for some time there will be social security, but the rules of the European Union are such that even a citizen of an EU country is not entitled to live in Finland if he repeatedly resorts to our basic social security. However, we have quite a large number today, mainly Estonians, who repeatedly rely on Finnish income support. Well, such a situation justifies that such a person loses his or her right to live in Finland. An EU citizen who repeatedly resorts to basic social protection in Finland or another EU country loses his or her right to live in that country. In practice, however, in Finland at the moment, if the immigration authorities ask the social authorities if there is such and such a person repeatedly resorting to monthly income support, the social welfare office may tell the immigration authority that there is such a thing here when they ask by name whether these are there. But when social services see these cases in their daily lives, which therefore abuse Finnish social security, they do not have the right to inform the immigration authorities on their own initiative that here too, as in the Eastern Helsinki Social Welfare Office, we have this and so many and these and those who are no longer entitled to live in Finland. They are therefore not entitled to notify it to another Finnish authority, i.e. immigration and police authorities, who would then ensure that such abuse of Finnish social security would not continue. Now I would like you, Mr Mattila, to try to put this in order. I know that there is a different working group and committee to reform the legislation on income support more broadly, but it would be a good idea to deal with this separate issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u20	Mr President! I warmly support Mr Zyskowicz's view and wish to clarify the legislation. As far as I am concerned, I would like to add to the speeches that the asylum crisis would somehow be over, since, in one year, the efforts of other countries alone have led to a slightly smaller number of asylum seekers than in the past. I would like to remind you that the pressure on migration is a permanent phenomenon and the new wave of the asylum crisis is already building up in the Mediterranean countries. Therefore, any action to legislate, in particular with regard to social security, must reflect the impact these changes can have on social, so-called 'disadvantage migration'. I therefore propose that, in future, when these laws are discussed, a study of the laws to be adopted should always be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u21	Mr President! In this context, I would like to continue Mr Zyskowicz's statement, for example, about these workers from neighbouring countries who have originally come to work in Finland and then work has gone out of hand here. Then, when you have settled down here, the children go to school and receive these social benefits, I understand, until it is addressed, and usually it is not addressed. However, one of the peculiar features of the past was that Estonians working in Finland, for example men, receive child supplements for their families in Estonia, even if the family lives in Estonia, officially the mother would live there with the children. I remember there was some discussion about this a couple of years ago, and the amounts were probably very small to some people, EUR 2 million or something like that. Has anything been done about this, or will itch this information, which was at least in the parliamentary debate then two years ago?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u22	Madam President! This exorcism of social security, i.e. cross-border transfers, is of course one of the difficulties in this common labour market in the EU, because we do, however, have quite a variety of levels of social protection from one country to another. It is important that the worker receive that social security from a country, but these situations should not lead to what I was told a few years ago, for example, that Polish workers were attracted to the Nordic countries by stating that, well, the salary level goes as posted workers according to the minimum wage in Finland, but then there is the possibility of Finland getting a little better social protection, as it were, on top of the salary. There is, among other things, this exportation of child supplements and, on the other hand, the exportation of home care support, i.e. when the child is not in a Finnish day care centre, then his or her family will be paid home care allowance even if the child is in a Polish day care centre. This is a situation which is certainly difficult for citizens to understand, that when you export these particular social security benefits, where we have our own demands in Finland, why there are no demands in these countries where the social security benefit ends up. I heard that the issue of social security for development and missionaries has been raised here in the past. It must be very clear in this proposal that we adhere to the good practice that we have had in Finland, which was achieved at the time when the Christian Democrats were in the government, when Minister Kankaanniemi was then a minister. It is very important, because if you think about what Finland has to bring to the world, it is our good education system, our skills, and these people who work in development cooperation and as missionaries are doing that very important work. We must now hope that this will not cause them undue difficulty and that they will be able to continue in these tasks. Of course, some of these issues have been dealt with by bilateral social security agreements, but this must now be looked at carefully, because there are also many countries in Africa, Asia, where there are currently development aid workers in Finland, missionaries in which these bilateral agreements do not exist. I also think that this is very important at the moment, in other words, in this situation we could say that the issue of this legislation, as it were, is now extremely sensitive and I now hope that the Minister will pay particular attention to this issue. Of course, it is possible to question whether this type of lowering of the criterion of residence is correct, whether this is the right situation. I am sure that the committee will go through this very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u23	Madam President! There has, of course, been a debate here not only about the fact that social security, like no benefits, must never be misused — and it is, of course, good that our legislation is precise — but also about the fact that it also takes into account the present life, which may be quite mobile in many cases, and in so far as it is terribly important that our legislation is up-to-date and flexible and takes account of all these situations. In fact, I bring this to the debate when the Minister is present, that the legislation that comes to Finland must also be mirrored in the acute situation, which is linked, for example, to the issue of guarantee pensions in Sweden. In time, large age groups from Finland have moved to Sweden and have been covered by a Swedish guarantee pension. Now, of course, when they retire, they will also return to Finland, and Sweden has decided, as in fact Finland has already decided, that the guarantee pension will be paid only to the country where they live. This, of course, means that these pensioners will, to a large extent, be covered by Finnish guarantee pension, and this issue is now being clarified between Finland and Sweden. Is the Ministry prepared that, as a result, there will probably be a considerable number of people covered by the Finnish guarantee pension, so that, in this new situation, when Sweden has done so in its own legislation, it will then also be agreed in Finland that people will not get into trouble because the countries change their interpretation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u24	Then the minister will answer. — Please, for up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u25	Madam President! Firstly, the answer to that question by Mr Järvinen on what will happen to the guarantee pension. Guarantee pension is a housing benefit, i.e. it is not paid, but employment pensions and national pensions, yes. The guarantee pension is intended for a person in Finland to secure a minimum pension. Then, Mr Savio, Mr Niikko, we still need a job contract here, we need a certain level of earnings. Therefore, those who contribute to the financing of the scheme will then also be covered by the benefit, and this drafting of the law has not revealed that this would be a particular attraction. Mr Zyskowicz, thank you for the detailed description you gave, but the income support is regulated by a different law and the situation you have described is also more on Minister Saarikko's property. But thank you for going through this too in this plenary debate. As far as these executable benefits, which have been mentioned in this few speeches, are concerned, yes, these are precisely those in Europe, and these were discussed very strictly before the Brexit vote. As has been said, this government proposal harmonises Finnish legislation, does not change in itself, but describes the situation again and mirrors EU legislation. Well, then, in what Mr Laukkanen, Mrs Kankaanniemi, spokeswoman Essayah, has said, among other things, about the missionaries who work in the humanitarian field. It is precisely that the situation here is that in part this period will be shortened, but this would normally correspond to the maximum period laid down in the bilateral social security agreements concluded by Finland. Here I must say that there has been a slight contradiction since then. In other words, yes, I have seen the position of the Christian Democrats, but then, on the other hand, it has also been very quiet since then, this has not received any more feedback as far as that is concerned. Above all, the situation corresponds to the fact that the bilateral agreements are the ones covering this security. But, of course, I think we should discuss this issue, and I am completely open to the debate, and there is no question about it. I myself have also been involved in humanitarian work, so I do know that it is important. Of course, many of these employment relationships are shorter. Mr President! I think this is where the answers came in pretty much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u26	The reply, Mr Essayah, and then we will go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u27	Thank you, Madam President! Finland The Missionary Society has also made a written statement on this situation, and I hope that it has also reached the Minister. And it is extremely important, and I hope that, with the people of the committees here, now that this matter is going to committee, there will be a wide-ranging call for both development cooperation organisations through, for example, Kepa and missionary organisations to be heard in committee. It has come to my mind that many of these organisations have very small resources, that they are very little able to follow these things. For example, when the Christian Democrats put a newspaper article on this, it was only then that most of these missionary or development organizations became aware of this problem. And it is not really a question of these bilateral agreements covering this, but, quite the opposite, in fact, these are the countries in which we do not have the bilateral agreements that are most in need of development aid and missionary work. In the past, with Nokia, China has been taken care of and a few Asian countries, India and similar large countries, have been dealt with, so-called developing countries, but it is precisely in these countries which need development cooperation there are no bilateral agreements, so I hope and send a message to the members of the committee that please ask these organisations to be consulted now, this is not in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u28	We still have time to take the floor.— Congressman Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u29	Madam President, thank you! This is a very important and big issue, and thank you to Minister Mattila for his open attitude in this regard. This is exactly what Mr Essayah said that many have only just now been awakened to what is happening here. There has been such a possibility in the past that this posted worker — and I myself have concluded these contracts in several organisations, and I am, as it were, well on the skin in this matter — may have been able to agree with various parties and to continue with these agreements abroad. Now, in this new proposal, this very practical possibility is removed, that we could negotiate with pension companies and others about the possibility of continuing this abroad, especially for these family reasons, where children's education and others are always concerned about how they are going to be able to cope. I hope that the members of the committees will, in fact, pay particular attention to this, so that we can achieve a reasonable result.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u30	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 5th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u31	Mr President, ärade talman! The rule of law is governed by law, and if laws are violated, there will be some kind of sanction. The credibility of the judicial system, on the other hand, requires that an offence as defined in the Criminal Code is punishable. The purpose of the fine is to act as a penalty for less serious crimes. The credibility of the fine is conditional on the offenders paying the fines imposed on them. A problem arises in situations where the offender repeatedly commits similar acts, fails to pay the fine and is not fined and therefore has no practical consequences. In this case, many offenders can also continue to commit crimes without real punishment. The problem is if, for example, a gas thief or a beer thief can do it weekly without any appropriate consequences. Even social confidence requires that, in such cases, punishment is followed by criminal activity. That is why we have now tabled a proposal to amend the regulation on the imposition of a fine. A key proposal is that fines for those guilty of similar offences should be dealt with repeatedly in court. A repetition would amount to seven similar fines within a year. The fines imposed by the court, which cannot be recovered, can be converted into imprisonment, but the fines imposed by the police are not. Thus, such fines imposed by the court would be subject to conversion if they were not paid. The aim is to improve the credibility of the criminal justice system, particularly in situations where the offenders have repeatedly avoided effective punishment due to their insolvency. At the moment, therefore, those who have repeatedly committed similar fines can effectively avoid punishment if they are not recovered from them. These proposed changes will correct the situation. The show is causing an increase in the number of prisoners. The total number of prisoners per day is estimated to increase by 30. The aim is to balance the increase by the fact that, even if more people are sentenced to the conversion penalty, the length of the conversion penalty would be slightly reduced. In this way, the total increase in the number of prisoners would not result in higher costs presented to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. In the preparation, we also explained the community penalty as a conversion penalty for the fine. However, the study has found and found that it would further complicate the system and it would be very likely that only a very small proportion of those convicted would be able to carry out community sanctions at all. It has been considered that the execution of the conversion penalty as an external institutional investment in substance abuse rehabilitation is a more effective way of getting those sentenced to the conversion penalty to pay the conversion penalty elsewhere than in prison. This proposal will therefore also improve access to substance abuse rehabilitation. The law on imprisonment would be repealed by a provision which prevents the introduction of a conversion penalty if the sentenced person is in substance abuse rehabilitation. The aim of this amendment would be to enable the conversion penalties of more sentenced persons to be enforced as an external institutional investment in substance abuse rehabilitation. Mr President! The purpose and aim of this proposal is to strengthen the credibility of our penal system. In the final analysis, every crime must be punished. From the point of view of our judicial system, it is important that you cannot get away with a crime without being punished. This proposal is also part of the package of reforms that will put the victim of crime in a stronger position in the Finnish penal system in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u32	Okay, here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u33	Mr President! About ten years ago, the government also contributed to the abolition of this conversion of the fine, and there were a number of reasons for it. One was that legal policy experts and poverty experts considered it very problematic that poor, very vulnerable people should be put in prison because of their other problems in life management, even though the crime they committed is not enough to allow them to go to prison. It does not cure the problems of these people. Experts then recommended that this be abandoned. Similarly, it has had no significant impact on the renewal of these crimes, whether or not the conversion penalty is being used. It seems that the government goes into this kind of image and symbol policy, which will only cost the state administration, that is, more prison capacity is needed. This view was shared at the time. This was also the view of the assembly at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u35	Madam President! It is a good thing that this green criminal policy is now being changed and, above all, the victim of crime is now being put at the centre, as Minister Häkkänen pointed out. Yes, it is right that every criminal offence should be punished, and this green criminal policy, which has now been followed for ten years in this area, has left many unpunished. We have a lot of surveillance cameras in the store, where beer thieves just laugh at the surveillance cameras when they steal beer time and time again, knowing that they will not be held responsible and punished, as they have not been to this day. The trade sector has lost about half a billion dollars annually due to these shoplifting. It is wonderful, Minister Häkkänen, that you are returning such a strong, just, legal-minded criminal policy to this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u36	Mr President! When Mr Niinistö was talking about image and symbol politics and going back to the baton line, I myself think I represented the latter option. I don't want to go back to it in any way. It's no honor to anyone. I'll catch up with that lack of life control that Niinistö mentioned. In my opinion, human shortcomings do not justify committing a crime, nor do they justify unauthorized possession of another’s movable property. When guilty of a crime, then it must be punished. And that punishment must be such that it is carried out. It can’t be that you get away with it just because you only appeal to your own bad life situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u37	Mr President! Indeed, it is the case that, for the sake of life control, no one is put in prison, but for the purpose of committing a crime, and this proposal for a refund of the fine must be supported in the interests of the general sense of justice. It cannot be that poverty in practice is exempt from compliance with the law. If the crime is not sanctioned, the situation will be unsustainable. The criticism of this issue is that this has gone a long way, for years, since the beginning of the reign, even though there may not be any disagreement in the government or much in the opposition. So why are we not going through this until the autumn of 18 and not two years earlier? Secondly, the bill has been watered down to the point that it refers to six offences during the same year. Is this a message now that you only commit six crimes, only in the seventh place will you be held accountable?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u38	Madam President! It is true, Mr Niinistö, that by hugging, crime prevention is simply not progressing. These people are those who repeatedly commit a crime, steal from traders, and, as Mr Heinonen mentioned, mock these traders. If there is no penalty for this, then indifference in this society will increase further. And ten years ago, when such a solution was reached — the Parliament then came to such a decision that the conversion penalty was abolished — and these problems immediately followed, it is now a reasonable time to return the conversion penalty, to restore credibility to our criminal legislation in this regard too. And in general, if you find that something is not working for us, then you have to change it. This is an extremely good proposal from the government and an important proposal. It is good that it is now moving forward in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u39	Madam President! This has been quite a tempo since last June 2015 Parliament had already passed a law in which the conversion penalty would have entered into force, but then after Sipilä's government had become a government, the law was repealed, and now we have come back to other ideas. And then the Greens are accused in this Chamber of having had some fuss over the years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u42	Mr President! Indeed, it is right that the victim of the crime finally comes to the centre and we return this fine to the conversion penalty. We really cannot hug all criminals just because they cannot afford to pay these fines. Everyone will suffer the consequences of the crimes committed, and that is what this is all about. Furthermore, there are indications that these are not only individual persons who steal beer or some other goods from shops, but there are also signs of systematic and systematic action that this can address. Of course, one can wonder what is the best way to deal with those root causes. Here it is good that these people also get to substance abuse rehabilitation and perhaps then get better control over their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u43	Mr President! The principle of the fine's conversion penalty is very difficult, and this is, of course, demonstrated by the fact that the governments have been taking it back and forth over the years. On the one hand, there is a huge difference between fines or unconditional imprisonment. The transfer of the fine to unconditional imprisonment is a huge step in principle in the form of a ducking of the penalty. On the other hand, it is a matter of principle that someone can deal with repeated crimes without any punishment. It is equally an enormous question of principle. In my opinion, the government is very good at explaining in its proposal the problems and the effects that this has or does not have. The introduction of punishment does not necessarily affect the reduction of crime, but for these reasons of principle it is now being taken forward. I think the good thing about this proposal is that it is now possible for a socially rehabilitating institution, such as a substance abuse facility, to be able to pay this conversion penalty. This is an important step, and I think that the government has done a good job in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u44	We will continue this debate for about 15 minutes and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u45	Madam President! Prison doesn't help anything, and prison doesn't cure anyone — that's the Greens' line of criminal policy. Of course, the exception is sexual crimes against women, where the Greens are in favour of tougher penalties, which apparently means that prison will cure someone. Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen said here that it's wrong for the green to get away with crime. Does this mean that you want to wreck our entire system of fines? If this were to be done, what would you do to the thousands who survive their crimes by paying a fine? Should those people be released completely, even from the punishment that suits you, or should they be put in prison, which is not appropriate for you and certainly not suitable for the Minister of Finance? I think it is a very good principle in this government proposal: the victim and the penalty will be put at the heart of this and also this access to substance abuse rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u46	Madam President! When there is a clear error in legislation, it is also the task of Parliament to correct it. In this respect, the Minister will score a full score, and the government, for bringing this matter to Parliament. When it is said here that we are going to the baton line, it is, of course, rhetoric, but this is not really the case. All in all, the question is what is the respect and respect for the law of the citizens, and if, in some way, it fails — even if only one point, even on a small scale — then it undermines the law as a whole and respects the law, and society cannot accept it. For example, we used to have a pedestal on the church hill, and a lot of people then feeling the shame of being punished may have been easier to follow a certain direction forward in society. This will also have a positive effect in the sense that it will not at least be done in the face of the police, rather than in front of the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u47	Madam President! I find it absolutely intolerable to wash the hands of the people of the United States and blame others. If I remember correctly, Mr Heinonen and Mr Zyskowicz, you too stressed the green button at the time of the decision to ban this conversion penalty ten years ago. But I fully understand this problem, that is, all the traders and gas dealers, and so on, who are being targeted. The saddest thing about both this proposal and the ban on conversion penalties is that they have, as it were, not been involved. The crimes they have committed and the bad deeds they have committed have not been treated correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u50	Madam President! It's not the people of the United States who wash their hands, it's us who raise their hands. The mistake has been made and the error has to be corrected, and we want this to be corrected. That is why Minister Häkkänen has brought a different proposal than the then Green Minister of Justice Tuija Brax. At that time, the conversion of the fine was abolished, and Mr Järvinen described in a good way how traders and trades have suffered from this. Half a billion dollars every year, trade loses with these professional shoplifters. Who's gonna pay for it? It's the price of the goods, the price of the food, the honest customers who go to the store.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u51	Ärade talman, Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, Parliament adopted a law on the extension of the use of the conversion penalty, prepared under the leadership of the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson. However, the Sipilä government first withdrew this law, that is, the present government withdrew it. Well, now you bring this matter back here again, the same thing is just being re-examined, and that is a good thing, but, Minister Häkkänen, does this not seem a little inconsistent overall?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u56	Madam President! This is certainly something that has left Parliament with a decision almost a decade ago, and, on the other hand, it is also a matter of very much feedback from gas station operators, traders. The situation has not been as it was hoped since the law amendment of the decade ago. As a result, I very much welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice is now introducing a proposal for a conversion penalty, which, in my opinion, is also clearly better than the previous versions, which have existed. This is a very important issue for the sense of justice, and it is very important at this stage if these people, who are now involved — some 900 people — commit more than seven similar crimes every year, that this applies to them. I consider this proposal to be highly justified, including that it is also extended to substance abuse rehabilitation. So it is great that this proposal now comes to our attention because the situation has not been resolved as a result of the previous legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u57	Mr President! The criticism of this proposal is, in particular, that the benefits of the proposal are limited or non-existent in relation to the resulting disadvantages. After all, this is for people who are completely broke, they have lost their credit records. [Current Group: But they have committed a crime!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u61	Mr President! In a state of justice, you have to act according to law, you can't get away with a crime without being punished. Thank you, Minister of Justice Häkkänen, for a very worthy and good government proposal. A fine shall serve as a penalty only when it is paid. The fine’s conversion penalty allows the financial penalty to be converted into personal liberty in situations where a criminal repeatedly fails to pay a fine. After all, the worst has even been the case that a shoplifter rips off a fine from a police officer in front of this nose. This is the green penal policy which, fortunately, is now being corrected by this proposal, and that correction is also right from the point of view of the victims of crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u62	Let's take four more, representatives Niinistö, Hakkarainen, Salmon and Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u63	Mr President! It is a good thing that this is now a fundamental debate, and that is why we want to raise it here. Is it not the case that criminal policy and the rule of law should be based on minimising crime and reducing crime renewal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u68	Mr President! This is a good proposal, but I think it should be even tighter. For example: The operator will be the victim of a crime. A criminal will refuel the car from there. The profits of a day, even two days, are there, the criminal takes it away. Six times a year he can do it, fill up the car, and there will be no consequences. But if we go into that entrepreneurial life, there will be consequences. For example, we loaded the overload into a truck, such a human error. There was a fine for the sender, a fine for the loaders, a fine for the driver — a threefold penalty for the non-existent human error.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u71	Mr President! In my view, Mr Hakkarainen's speech above was such a seed of truth. When you look at our criminal justice system, the penal system, then there's a little bit of this stuff, let's say, cleaning up depends on whether the punishment always corresponds to the crime's reprehensibility. But as far as this proposal is concerned, I personally support this, although this is certainly not without problems. Above all, the question is what is the credibility of our entire penal system? Nor can you think that if you are broke, you do not have to be punished. I think even the poor can afford to follow the law and act on a narrow path. That is why this criminal policy cannot be done ahead of or as part of economic policy. We must also look at the overall system and also at what it looks like for those citizens who themselves are honest and comply with the law if others simply fail to comply with these provisions of the law without any penalty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u72	Mr President! I am very happy to support the government's proposal to curb the cycle of serial shoplifting. It can't be that criminals don't care about the fine they get, and in the finals, honest citizens pay for it. Punishment must follow the crime. The reform will therefore strengthen the credibility of the criminal justice system, respect for the law above all and general law-abiding. Non-payment of fines cannot be a means of exemption from sanctions. A large proportion of these who commit repeated shoplifting have substance abuse problems or are otherwise excluded. That is why it is excellent that this bill also includes guidance on substance abuse care. It must be said that this may even be their salvation, that they will be able to access the services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u73	All right, let's go to the list of speakers. After all, we have time for that 15.35 and, of course, before we stop, the Minister is still answering. — But now Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u74	Madam President! It is good that the victim of the crime, in this case the trader and honest shoppers, is now being raised more strongly. Every offender must be punished, as Minister Häkkänen here suggests. Shops and gas stations have been tormented for some ten years now by the rioting of beer thieves and shoplifters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u77	Madam President! It is important for the credibility of the rule of law that repeated offenders cannot, in practice, escape punishment by not paying fines. I therefore consider it necessary that the government proposal before us expands the scope of the conversion penalty. According to the proposal, offences committed by persons who repeatedly commit similar offences should continue to be dealt with in court proceedings. Unlike the fines imposed by the police, the fines imposed and imposed by the court are convertible into imprisonment. The possibility of converting the fines imposed by the police into imprisonment was abolished in 2008. It is right that this decision of ten years ago should finally be corrected when the police are required to refer a fine crime to a district court when the behaviour of a person who has repeatedly received a fine shows indifference to the law. Repeated negligence is considered to be more than six fines within a year. The reform of the law strengthens the credibility of our penal system and interferes in the very necessary way with the activities of professional shoplifters, which so far have been paid by ordinary consumers in their purchases, such as shoplifters. All in all, a good and necessary bill, which is also an important part of Minister of Justice Häkkänen's legislative package, whose whole package strengthens the position of victims of crime in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u78	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on fines and fines and the penal code. It would be possible for those guilty of repeated fines to be sentenced to a conversion penalty if the fine is not recovered otherwise. This show is more than expected. At the moment, there is a situation where the act does not result in punishment for all the authors, as it should be. At least I think that a punishable act should be punished, at least we live in the rule of law. The aim must, of course, be to pay as much of the fines as possible on a voluntary basis and to recover the outstanding fines without any conversion or enforcement of the conversion penalty. At present, for example, almost professional shoplifters have been able to get away without punishment if they do not have property that could be confiscated. Thieves are a major problem and are the cause of loss, particularly in the commercial sector. It is clear that, following this amendment of the law, there will be more prisoners in prisons, as Mr Häkkänen has just said, the estimate would be about 30. However, I do not believe in very big changes in the number of prisoners. In the future, the conversion ratio of the fine would only be changed in such a way that, in the case of fines imposed by daily fines, four outstanding daily fines would be equal to one day’s imprisonment for the present three daily fines. I think it is very little. In a sparsely populated area, traders no longer report theft to the police when they know that the perpetrator will have no effect. I don't think that's the right thing to do in the rule of law. We would, of course, also like to vote on this in this House if a party or someone wants to vote on it. I think we can handle this vote. Mr President! I believe that this amendment of the law should be brought into force as soon as possible, not at the end of 2021, as is thought to be a deadline. This creates fairness and equity, and this is an acceptable legislative amendment in the eyes of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u79	Mr President! On this issue of non-reporting, it is also a matter of the fact that, firstly, police resources are too limited, secondly, they have been misused by the police, so that police are not enough to deal with the small crimes of property that the police should be investigating, and therefore people do not even bother to report them. There has been a fundamental debate in this Chamber on criminal policy and, in my opinion, when we go into this ideological line, it is only right that the mistakes made over the decades by the red-green ideology should be corrected one small step at a time. However, a full - scale person is responsible for his own actions, and that is the way it is. This phenomenon of shoplifting is also associated with recent incomprehensible cases where the owner of a gas station, for example, has photographed the gas thief and, having published the picture, is on the bench of the defendants themselves. Such cases are flagrantly contrary to the public sense of justice. The public is furious that society is turning the victim into a criminal. My question to the Minister is: what measures could be taken to prevent crime from enjoying the protection of private life as it is today?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u80	Mr President! I very much welcome this amendment of the law, in which the fine is being re-imposed and which is now being brought under control, in particular, by serial killers. This means that after seven similar fine offences there will be prison sentences, and this will be particularly beneficial for grocery and petrol traders. This law is part of a package of sanctions which will be accompanied by statements by Minister Häkkänen other than this. It is very good that sanctions are now being tightened, because they will then be better suited to citizens' sense of justice. They must also be proportionate to the crimes committed. In that sense, it is also a good thing that the victim is now also placed at the heart of the matter. In the past, we have only talked about the situation of the perpetrators. When the question has been raised here, among other things, that one of the key aspects of the penal system, i.e. the preventive effect, would be limited, I would now ask the Minister how it came to the very conclusion that there are seven penalties. And then there is also the fact that some experts in different groups have advocated the importance of social service, that it can specifically address these root causes, so that the offenders, after being punished, do not return to the old path. I would like to ask how these have been assessed in this legislative process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u81	Mr President! The Government's bill is welcome from the perspective of honest Finns, as now we are returning to the old and old things. On the basis of the motion, those who repeatedly committed small crimes and those who were caught would no longer be able to pay a small daily fine, but would be put behind bars if they again failed to pay their fine. The conversion is conditional on the person having received at least six fines in the previous year — the seventh cage, in the national language, swings. The purpose of the proposal is to promote the credibility of the criminal justice system, respect for the prohibitions and orders of the law and general law-abiding. Four outstanding daily fines would be equivalent to a one-day prison sentence. The minimum length of the conversion penalty would be increased from four to five days and the maximum length would be reduced from 60 to 40 days. The blackmailing of the law would be directed in particular at shoplifting of common-law criminals, of which the most common are probably fuel thefts and so-called run-off beer. When the police write a fine or a penalty claim, it may be torn in front of the police and shouted at with the middle finger waving that the action continues. Many entrepreneurs have announced that they will no longer give their consent to the penalty procedure, so that the case goes according to a long pattern of pre-trial investigation and prosecution. Time goes by, but petty thefts and the activities of a common-law criminal continue. The amendment of the law increases the work of prosecutors and courts to some extent and imposes additional costs on the Criminal Sanctions Agency, as has been said in several speeches, but may contribute to reducing the incidence of common-law crime as a result of deprivation of liberty. This change also shows the attitude of society towards compliance with the law, in that the offender does not avoid sanctions by tearing up the forms of punishment, like the lottery tickets for the euro. As a police officer, I'd be willing to tighten the terms proposed. I think that six unpaid fines during the year are quite a lot. I hope that in committee work the deterrent effect and the generality of the so-called punishment will be assessed as to whether it will also work in practice. As a good comparison, I consider the speeding ticket to be a good one: the card is going to dry out from a couple of two-year infringement fines, despite the fact that these infringement fines have been paid. Mr President! I support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u82	There are four requests for the floor. If these are speeches on the ground, they will all be taken — so let's take a look at the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u83	Mr President! During my first parliamentary term, since 2007, during the Vanhanen Second Government, when Minister Brax was indeed Minister of Justice and Minister of Finance Katainen was involved in criminal policy. I was in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I began to understand what all the things have to do with what kind of criminal policy is being done. One important issue was the framework for central government finances. This was one of the main reasons for the attempt to reduce the number of prisoners, and this reduction in the practical use of the fine, the reduction in its use, was one of the consequences of the attempt to reduce the number of prisoners. There, on the Criminal Sanctions Agency’s side, the framework was tight and some problems could be solved. And the reason for this was that the Sipilä government, at its very beginnings, withdrew the already completed bill, the law that came into force. Now, in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government spending limits decision, EUR 11 million is earmarked for this every year, for these additional costs, which is, of course, wise that progress can now be made. A little of this debate, which is otherwise a proper debate, remains to be dug up by the very emotional stigmatisation of the situations in which these people have these thefts and then commit repeated thefts. I don't think there's a group of people named "professor" out there. [KariKulmala intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u84	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Häkkänen and the Government for bringing this proposal here. Yes, above all, it is a question of this being in accordance with our sense of justice. Wasn't that the old district judge's instruction that what isn't right and reasonable can't be a law? And it is not right and proper to be able to steal systematically without ever receiving any punishment for it. When I myself have once been a barbecue kiosk entrepreneur, and so I know a lot of these kiosk operators, merchants and service station operators, I have received a lot of feedback on this issue. These have already been mentioned here, but I would also like to give you a few examples: for example, at a rural maintenance station, where you want to keep a meter, mainly because of older users who do not have an automatic, it is quite normal for a person to get a gas tank but not pay and yet salute the surveillance camera — not even to be ashamed of what he is doing. Or we in small shops in the city centers have been told by many merchants that they are constantly having people who, several times a week, regularly steal what is known as the ‘drink beer’ already referred to here by Mr Hongisto. Such action is of no origin, and it also sends the wrong signal to all those who act honestly and, above all, to young people. That this cannot be done, but that it must be punished. It is an excellent thing that we should now correct the mistake that has been made in 2008 and put this matter in a rational position. Still, the bar is reasonably high, but what's important is that it exists. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u85	Irade the Talman! This amendment of the law is not free of charge, we know very well. Inspector Simanainen told me that this would require an increase of 90 police officers. After all, the budget is under discussion here and it has become very clear that the maintenance of 7200 man-years or women's years of work is behind hard work. It is not made any easier by the fact that: The Senate's real estate costs are like an automatic cost-raising factor. The fact that the police are facing an increase of 5.6 million in ict costs next year does not make the situation any easier. The Road Traffic Act alone creates a need for investment of 2.5 million. We also have an EU presidency year ahead of us, which, in itself, will probably require a different kind of need than normal activity here in Helsinki. So the need for extra money is obvious, and when these many things accumulate, one can imagine that the next year of the police will be quite challenging. I understand that the police budget is not on your desk, but have you, Minister Häkkänen, held these discussions within the government and are you prepared to correct the budget proposal in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u86	Two more requests came in. Now it is absolutely the case that at this stage we take these, plant, Kari and Salmon, if they are from the scene, but if not, then we will have to interrupt this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u87	Mr President! In this debate, it has been assumed that shoplifting and shoplifting will stop where fines can be converted into imprisonment again. However, according to the statistics, the abolition of the conversion penalty did not add to the theft in practice at all. It is therefore unlikely that their return will significantly reduce them, at least for the sum of EUR half a billion a year, as referred to here. Perhaps we ourselves have a better mind, and that too is, of course, valuable. It is good for society itself that from time to time there is a debate on the judgeship of different crimes, their appropriate penalties, because time and values and values change and legislation must also remain involved. It must not be forgotten, however, that the main objective must be to reduce the number of crimes. In this work, severe penalties have unfortunately proved to be an ineffective tool. In fact, it would appear that a society that favours harsh penalties always correlates with the prevalence of serious crime for some reason. So as easy as it is harder to punish by promising to fish for votes, it must always be remembered whether it has an effect or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u88	Madam President! I personally welcome the fact that this matter of the conversion of the fine is now being dealt with. Of course, the role of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is left to the committee to go through the government's proposal carefully and then to assess the effectiveness of the law. But I would also like to take up a little of the same issue as Mr Adlercreutz above. Over the last few years, our police have been assigned a number of new tasks. However, with their increasing tasks, there has been no funding for the police to carry out these tasks. I also see a major flaw in the legal sense of this bill. We must be able to count on the authority to have a genuine capacity to intervene in the illegal activity that is taking place in society, but in the name of this sense of justice, I welcome this proposal. Nor can there be any right that a person ignores the fines that are imposed on criminal activities or illegal activities and, so to speak, gets away with what is known as 'nationalism', like a dog at large. I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will be able to look into this with full enthusiasm and to consult experts, because here, the one angle to which reference has been made is the importance of social justice and social work. It is not just convictions that build society, but, as the Minister has said on several occasions in the past, the judicial system and criminal sanctions are also large social work in the broad field, which tries to influence offenders and, in this case, often repeat offenders.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u89	Representative Salmon, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u90	Mr President! I do not think that anyone will imagine that this motion will put an end to this type of crime, such as shoplifting or so on. One might say that if we think about reducing crime in general, then surely the best way to do so is to keep socio-economic differences so small that there is no need to build fences around residential areas. When you look at the big picture, even though we have crime — and you can always say that too much — in Finland, yes, we have succeeded in the big picture, and the fact that we do not have the same crime rate as in some countries, even if there are higher penalties. But it is a broader question, in this case, that everyone, including the law-abiding citizens, believes in our criminal justice system that there is always a penalty for breaking the law. I believe that this proposal is exactly the same as the second item on the agenda today, which addresses the first-time rules, and that what has been included in the Government Programme, for example, about the possibilities for strengthening conditional prison sentences, which are also coming here from the Minister of Justice. They are excellent things. We need to think about this as a whole and update this system, make fine-tuning, but also make adjustments that correspond to people's sense of justice. It is good that during this term of government it was also clear what people think about crimes and fair penalties. Even better, when these were clarified, we will also act and bring presentations here. These government programme entries are also a good back seat for the Minister. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for bringing these things here to Parliament and for making minor corrections in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u91	Then the minister will answer. Three minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u92	Mr President! Thank you for the broad support and good feedback this presentation received. I did not find out about the Greens' position yet, but perhaps that will also become clearer at some point. After all, this proposal is primarily a question of a value policy solution: will it support respect for the law, compliance with the law and possible small measures to increase the credibility of the penal system if it is perceived to be important? This is a big global issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u97	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for this debate. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, we shall proceed to the sixth item of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u98	Mr President, ärade talman! The proposal now before us is also part of a programme of tightening up penalties, from which proposals are now being brought here in the autumn. I would like to stress, as well as in the recent debate, that there are many different tasks to be dealt with. If we look only at the preventive effect, it can be said that, perhaps in the case of planned economic crimes, severe punishment can be very strong in preventing them. But what about crime of passion, crimes under drugs? In them, it may not prevent that much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u101	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for the second goal this evening. An excellent proposal that strengthens penalties and strengthens the general acceptability of our judicial system. This proposal therefore tightens up the possibility for offenders to be released on probation, i.e. the so-called first-time definition. Above all, the proposal seeks to increase the fairness and general acceptability of our criminal justice system. This proposal proposes that the prisoner be released for parole when he has served half his prison sentence if he has not been in prison in the five years prior to the crime. Today, this corresponding deadline is three years. This is a good reform which, in my opinion, takes this situation in the right direction, and that is why we must thank Mr Häkkänen for this. We have had a situation so far where we could have raped each other every three years for the first time. Fortunately, this is changing, but in a certain way this challenge will continue. This change will therefore, above all, strengthen the penalties of repeat offenders and seek to improve the probation system to a fairer and more credible level. Now that the Greens are no longer here, Mr Niinistö, but in the case of the previous motion, that of the refund of the fine, which he was the only one against here with his party, he accused the Coalition Party and Mr Zyskowicz and the signatory. I do not know whether he would blame Mr Zyskowicz for this change, too, because this was done in the 1970s, when five years were moved to three years. I'm glad to see you're returning the minister. I'm gonna throw this back in five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u104	Mr President! In connection with this proposal, too, it must be wondered why such a matter already included in the government programme is not in the presentation until the very last year of the part-session. Maybe there's a reason. As such, this proposal to extend the time limits for parole from three to five years is in line with the general sense of law and is supported, at least in the sense that this is the right direction. But it is appropriate to ask whether the change is still sufficient. It can probably be understood by the citizen in most cases if the first-time offender in the crimes of a milder head gets away with it the first time, genuinely the first time, less — even this should not be in use when talking about serious violent crimes or sexual crimes. But with normal reason, no one can understand how a first - time experience can as it were reoccur. Here is such a peculiarity of criminal policy, which the Finnish law should correct. I, at least, question the underlying assumption that judgments will not be planted as they are condemned. However, the penalties for several crimes are too low even day by day, not to mention such a sale.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u105	Madam President! To Mrs Mäkelä, better late than not at all. This issue was agreed in the 2015 spring Government negotiations in the Internal Security Working Group. I myself was in charge of the task force, and the government parties then agreed that these blackmails would be carried out, as discussed in that previous paragraph and now also here, and the government will follow its own line and bring to the finish these things that have been initiated at that time. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Mr President! The amendment proposes that the prisoner may be released on parole after having completed half of the sentence if, in the five years prior to the offence, he has not carried out an unconditional prison sentence. In today's law, the number is three years. Time has been considered too short in terms of justice, especially for those who commit repeated serious crimes. Many say that it cannot be that the first time is judged every three years and one day after the last sentence. This is certainly not understood by many, and in this bill it is “first time ” from three years to five years. As Mr Heinonen, before leaving the Chamber, said in that regard that he felt that the first-timer could only be once, I very much agree with Mr Heinonen's idea. I agree that a first-timer can only be one time and then happen again. A paroled prison sentence has a long history in our country. It was registered in the Criminal Code as early as 1889. In practice, the procedure was already ten years old. Conditional imprisonment at the end of absolute imprisonment has proved to be a good way to adapt to society for the majority of those sentenced. Gradual liberalisation also improves the security of society, as the intensity of the offender’s control is calculated step by step, while his responsibility and ability to live a life without crime are increasing. At least that's what we're hoping for. Experience has shown that this practice has worked very well, especially in the case of young prisoners. Increasing the deadline from three to five years is not new, so let us go back to the old practice. The blackmail is targeted at a small number of common-law criminals. Therefore, it should not entail significant additional costs, on the contrary. The change may even reduce the number of days in prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u106	Madam President! This brings with it the Minister’s presentation and feedback on successive issues. The reason is to give positive feedback when its place is in place. In his presentation, Minister Häkkänen well described the situation in which we are now living and the government's proposal on the direction in which this legislation is being taken in this respect. However, it is now a question of adding years to this scale from three to five. The concept of first time is now being changed by two years. In this regard, Mr Heinonen pointed out that he felt that there could only be one first time. In this context, I would have liked to have asked the Minister about this first time, and also whether there is a case law in Europe which deals with first time, so that it is only one time, and only one time, when this grace is granted, and if the crime is repeated, then it is not. Of course, this would only apply to these serious crimes — whatever the definition of serious crime is, but at least in the public debate there is often talk of violent crimes or similar crimes. Is there any case law in Europe that does not know such a constant or repeated renewal of the first time a year has passed? I think this is a good performance. I refer to my previous speech in connection with the previous legislative proposal. Let's talk about people's sense of justice, what's right and what's fair. Regrettably, we have a great deal of serious crimes in this society where repeat offenders gain an unfair advantage from the fact that the repeated limit of first timeness has been as small as three years. In that respect, a step into five years is a step in the right direction, but is that sufficient, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u107	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the fact that we will now have these guidelines, which have already been decided on in the Government Programme, for the consideration of Parliament. As has been pointed out in this debate, we are, in fact, now returning to the old, original system which has been in this country for quite a long time. An interesting detail is probably that in 76 C.E., when we moved to this shorter three-year prison sentence for repeat offenders on the basis of their first-time situation, it was a tough state of affairs. So there's an interesting basis for criminal policy in the past. I think it is very good that we should return to that original practice of a first-time retention of crime in five years. Of course, it is true that, in the debate, particularly on serious matters relating to the spirit of violent crime, it is justified to ask whether five years is sufficient for first time and for its annulment, but, of course, for the sake of clarity of the system, a start must be made, and in that respect five years is a justified time. It must be borne in mind, as stated in this government proposal, that, after three years of punishment, the most common offences, which have then been repeated, have been the transport of vehicles without rights, theft, theft, drug abuse, drunken driving, fraud and abuse. On the other hand, there have been far fewer serious crimes against spirit and health, so it is certainly in the people's sense of justice that we should move on to this original practice of first-time employment, from three to five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u108	Mr President! In the case of serious crimes in particular, the public's sense of justice has been puzzled by the fact that for the first time there has been a three-year limit, so it seems reasonable that this should now be raised to five years. This proposal has been estimated to have a budgetary impact of around EUR 2 million, and I would like to ask the Minister: have these budgetary implications been taken into account? I would also like to ask you about your assessment of whether this proposal is targeted at repeaters of serious crimes and whether citizens can now feel better about it, that is to say, whether you believe that this proposal will improve their security. There has been a lot of serious debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights about the fact that the Ministry of Justice's field of activity has been spared and chewed up so much year after year that we are already in a situation where the criteria of the rule of law are becoming stale in the sense that the amount of resources is so limited that court proceedings are lengthy, many cases have become more complicated, sometimes even in situations, that the deadlines for dealing with matters and judgments are coming in because the budget is so limited. How would you assess the situation as a whole, particularly in view of the fact that you have a number of proposals which increase the needs of the appropriations in your field of activity, but also in the broader police and other sectors? In the previous debate, we discussed the conversion of the fine, which, as a proposal, is much more expensive than this proposal. You told us that EUR 10 million is available in the budget, but on the other hand I would like to remind you that the money has not, however, assessed all the effects on other authorities, such as the needs of police appropriations. I would therefore like you to take care of the development of the budget of your own sector as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u109	Madam President! I see that the Greens have lost their way and have left Mr Karimäki to represent the Greens' criminal policy lines. It is a good thing that Mr Karimäki, in his positive attitude to this motion, represents a better line in criminal policy than in the previous paragraph of the order of business, where the Green Representative, under the leadership of Mr Ville Niinistö, opposed the reintroduction of the conversion penalty for the fine. Mr Karimäki, in particular in that debate, drew attention to economic issues, as is the case today, and of course, everything we decide here also has a bearing on what it costs the taxpayers. But I personally see that these economic factors have gained too much weight in criminal policy over the last few years — I mean, before Mr Häkkänen's term of office. For economic reasons, too, there was the slump with the refund of the fine and the non-return referred to in the previous debate. When Mr Karimäki said in that debate that it would be expensive to keep people in prison — and this was one argument, I understood, to reject the rendition of the fine — then it would be expensive to keep all the prisoners. If I do not misremember, it has been calculated that the price of one day in prison is, would it be, about 200 euros with all the expenses? But that is not why, Mr Karimäki and the Greens, we do not think that we will be able to give up prisons altogether, very far away, to save a long penny that can be given to the police — well, I do not know what the police will do with that money if the villains are no longer put in jail. In other words, the economic aspect is a relevant argument, but the fact that the main aim of criminal policy is to save money and then to reduce the number of prisoners cannot be the right starting point. It was very welcome that Minister Häkkänen explained the many significance of the punishment system. If it were indeed the case, as Mrs Niinistö said in the previous debate, that everything is only intended to prevent crime, then why are we punishing some of the crimes committed in jealousy, because it is not necessarily to be assumed that the person concerned would again commit the same kind of crime? All in all, I am in favour of increasing police resources and I support this proposal, which is very well-founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u110	Mr President! Let's be brief. I forgot in my own speech when it comes to a reform which changes the first-time demand from three to five years, and the President said that this will be sent to the Constitutional Committee, to ask Minister Häkkäs: why does this proposal require a constitutional assessment, or is it today's so-called new standard that all legislation will be sent to the Constitutional Committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u111	And Minister Häkkänen, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u112	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. This package is indeed part of a programme of blackmail. Maybe more on the fight against crime. It is indeed as I said, and Mr Zyskowicz also pointed out: the fight against crime is one part of the system of penalties and its purpose, but it is also the task of the penal system to reconcile crimes in the eyes of the victim and of society and thereby to increase the credibility of compliance with the law. In particular, it has been on the agenda at the Ministry of Justice to prepare for me projects to deal with crimes related to physical integrity, whether they be sexual crimes against women and children, why not crimes against men, violent crimes or the like. These crimes are the most serious of all, but we cannot ignore the smaller crimes. The removal of the first-time rule has come to the fore here. It is said that my personal thinking is that there is still quite a lot to be corrected in a number of different parts of this penal system — not just that blackmail is needed everywhere, but that there is quite a lot of slicing there. This is just the situation because I started in mid-term, because not all of the projects could be started here, but they could not be made any progress in the drafting of the law here. Let me take an example. In international comparison, the first-time procedure and the partial release from prison of half or two thirds of those seated are not, at least, from the toughest point of view — they are more of a loose end. And in Finland, when it comes to the idea that the main objective is to calculate the number of prisoners or the economic criteria mentioned here, I do not think that this should be the main criterion, but that the solutions to the penal system must be based on values and in this Chamber, weighing the kind of punishment that is a fair penalty for, say, aggravated assault or, for example, aggravated rape, and then coordinated with resources. And in that prison, as is already being done, rehabilitation must be given to sexual offenders, violent criminals, serial shoplifters. You have to punish the sufferers for rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u115	Madam President! In this debate, the resources of the Ministry of Justice’s industry have emerged. It is precisely because their resources must be sufficient to give people justice. For many people in their case, it is really essential to have rapid treatment, to have a high-quality pre-trial examination and to have their rights taken into account that the status of the victim has been safeguarded. And that is precisely the question that I would have liked you to consider that the Ministry of Justice's resources are sufficient to guarantee legal certainty and to put the rule of law in prison. There has been a lot of discussion about the fact that the level of appropriations has been diminishing for years now and that if we go down further, the level of legal protection will be unduly reduced. So here I would like to correct the wrong impression that our aim is to save this industry. This is by no means the case, but the needs are far greater than what has now been invested.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u116	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 7. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u117	Mr President! Knownly the starting point for this bill is a restrictive directive, and the aim of the Finnish Government is to implement the directive without causing any difficulties in the proper and safe use of weapons in hunting, shooting and reserve operations, with Finnish special features, but with the aim of ensuring that the Directive's objective, namely the prevention of the proliferation of particularly dangerous weapons, is met. Above all, the directive requires that all self-charged firearms with a large charger are in principle prohibited. This is the most important change we have been working on. Secondly, the sale of the so-called large box, the large charger, is prohibited if the buyer does not have the so-called ‘A’ class permit required for these particularly dangerous weapons, which are in principle prohibited. Thirdly, the directive requires closer monitoring. This implies the need to withdraw the licence if the reason for its existence is no longer fulfilled, and also the obligation to announce the loan of the gun and so on. Fortunately, the joint effort of all of us and many of us Finns has also given rise to the so-called reserve derogation, which is, however, very restrictive. It allows for the authorisation of a particularly dangerous category A weapon on the basis of reserve operations in a case duly justified by national defence, as an individual case and exceptionally. From these points of view, we started to build a government proposal, and now this is the result you have before you, and I would like to thank in particular the reserve agencies, the shooting clubs, hunting organisations, active parliamentarians and influencers for the fact that with this proposal we have been very well able to make proper use of weapons. [Simon Elon interlude] In particular, the core is how we define the use of large chargers in the future. In this respect, Mr President, with regard to the large-scale chargers used and their weapons, we are moving to authorisation, but with the following exceptions: First of all, a reservist who shows his hobby for 12 months will take an MPK test and receive the Defence Forces' support, will also be allowed to carry out his activities with a large charger. Similarly, derogations may be granted in the field of applied reserve shooting, practical shooting and sports shooting. Exemptions may be granted for the collection of weapons. And what is particularly relevant to thousands of enthusiasts was the solution by which the licences for legal weapons acquired before June last year, including large chargers, will automatically continue in the future, that is to say, any major rudimentary process of rolling into a new position next year or threatening to lose them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u120	Well, there's an obvious need for a debut. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in this debate to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u121	Madam President! The Committee on Defence is the committee responsible for these matters, and at the meeting of the Committee on Defence, we have commented on the reserve derogation in relation to the Arms Act, and we have also spoken and discussed it considerably. There are also members of the Committee on Defence here, and, as has been gratifying in the work of the committee, we have shared the view that the general military service and the extensive reserve of our defence infrastructure will also have the right to carry out and maintain the shooting activity. And it has been a pleasure to work in committee also to support this reservist activity, the fundamental rock, the preservation and development of time. There is no difference between the government and the opposition here, at least in that Committee on Defence. But I ask, Minister, you: I have noticed that between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u122	Madam President! In my opinion, the key message in this content of the Arms Act is that reserve operations can continue. Sport shooting, such as applied reserve shooting, can continue in practice, This is a very important issue because the Arms Act dates back to that EU directive and now our arms law, this proposal, has been implemented within the framework of the framework of the framework of the directive, through its smallest route, in my opinion — it has been sought here all the time. Unfortunately, there will be more red tape for the enthusiasts. It is not because of the will of Finland or the government, it is because of the reasons behind the EU. It is a good thing that this proposal concerns the whole reserve. Shooting skills are the most important single feature of a soldier. In view of the starting points from which transport started, compared with what has now been done and what this proposal contains, a very great deal of work has been done both at the end of the EU by Finns as well as here internally in these various areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u123	Madam President! This EU Arms Directive actually started after these serious terrorist attacks in Europe. Personally, I do not quite believe that this will solve, for example, the illegal arms trade or the problems that this is intended to solve. Especially in Finland, this does not have such an effect, and we would not have needed this at all if it were not for the EU's mandatory obligation. Fortunately, we have had a broad national consensus and, as Mr Kari, the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, too, a good consensus in committee on how we are going to find a way to do just what the directive requires, not more than anything. In this way, reservist activity, on the other hand, ancient hunting and fine sporting shooting in this country can continue more or less as usual. And thank you also to the Minister for this, that the solution has been found together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u124	Mr President! This is a problem where licensing practices are still not being tightened as little as possible due to EU requirements. This was the case when the EU first set out to tighten up from our point of view the activities of Finnish hunters, gun enthusiasts and reservists without cause. These tightening ups we did not in principle need; they do not solve any of the problems we have. Then, in the EU, they were influenced as much as they could, with varying success, perhaps with the most important things being safeguarded. But I would like to remind you that even though the reservist activity has its own value, gun practice in general and hunting also has its value, which is not to be overlooked alongside this reservist activity. Now, however, the government is going to present to Parliament a law on arms, which contains a number of points which the directive does not as such require, i.e. the so-called 'Finland supplements'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u127	Mr President! Yes, it is important to start with what this is all about. In 2016, just as Mr Heinonen said, at EU level, this left out of these terrorist attacks and their concern. For Finland, this is quite frankly pointless — none of us can deny it — but since we are a member of the EU, we will not get anywhere from the fact that the directive has to be applied here in some way. What is essential is that a good solution has been found at national level. The EU negotiations at that level were also very important because the original proposal from the EU Commission on the Arms Directive would have ended our defence solution in Finland. That is not happening now, and we must thank the ministers Niinistö and Mykkänen and, of course, also Mr Savola and Mr Kopra. There was good cooperation in this front of government, and I am also pleased that, as Mr Kari said, the opposition has also been very much in line with the government. This was the first question we had to deal with. Then came the other questions, which of course relate to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u128	Madam President! Indeed, as has already been said, in the EU-wide context, this has been intended, among other things, to ban the civilian use of the most dangerous self-loading weapons and to enhance the exchange of information between the countries of the Union, and these are worthy objectives. It is a good thing that, in such an international context, the directive is lacking in the availability of semi-automatic weapons and automatic weapons, with the aim of increasing security and social stability. Then this reserve derogation, negotiated by Finland, which concerns a large group of approximately 900,000 reserve members. There is only one question that arose from there: I noticed from the police's statement that the police have noted that the reserve derogation would include persons who, because of their criminal past, are not fit to possess firearms. The police drew attention to the fact that it is even likely that the armaments of these persons would have an impact on public order and security, and possibly even on its risk. I would like to hear a little Minister's statement on this,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u129	President! This is very important for the national defence of Finland as a whole, that reservist activity is able to operate smoothly according to the guidelines outlined in the legislation. Similarly, of course, shooting sports is a factor which is a matter for scrupulously quoted in the explanatory statement and writing of this law. Hunting, of course, is one of these. It is important that Parliament is now combing through this motion very well so that there is nothing that we do not really mean. In this respect, it is a good thing that the matter is now here at good reading, although I have not yet quite clearly been able to see the side of it, which is why this issue should also be dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which we are well aware of today's workload. The risk that this could not be dealt with should not now be realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u130	Madam President! It is now a question of the provisions of the directive which will then be amended, but I do not necessarily agree with the idea that there was no need in Finland to review them to some extent at national level too, now perhaps not in this context, but in the light of the previous tightening ups, such as access to permits and so on – we have unfortunate cases of school killings, weapons retention issues and many other issues – which have been very justified here in Finland because of Finland’s own problems. This is a good reform. What the Minister may not have mentioned is that the identity of the person who bought the gun will now also be checked in relation to the online shop, and also the possession of an arms license, which is very well-founded, so that you cannot buy on the Internet as much as you can. I'm glad this hobby is possible. But I still have these two questions, one of which is that why it may be possible for all the 900,000 people who have ever visited the army to apply for this, and the other is the role of the MPK, whether this has to do with the future, the possible change of mission of the MPK, which may have come from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u131	Mr President! Congressman Paatero said that he does not understand how to apply. I do understand that a person may have the opportunity to apply for a permit to obtain a gun, but the police do not have to admit it. The police will be quite clear and clear about what is behind the person. If there are criminal offences or other offences committed, you can apply for a permit but it is stated that the permit is not granted. This part of the reserve isn't a license machine, it's a safety thing. And as has been said in many speeches, we already have the Firearms Act in Finland in such a tight model that it would no longer have to be tightened up. I therefore call on the committee to take this matter into account, but the starting point is that, in this Chamber, in this house, laws are decided — and not by the Police Government, but by the Police Government. In my opinion, Mr Kanerva has made a good, constructive speech that, in the work of the committee, this bill must be dealt with with with a very tight grip and must be removed from it the inappropriateness that may have remained there at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u132	Mr President! From the outset, the Finns have demanded that there should be no tightening of this firearms law that is not required by this completely absurd EU coercive directive. I would like to ask the Minister: has this proposal now eliminated any additional tightening? The previous speech has shown that this is not the case at the moment. But can you assure me that any unnecessary tightening has been eliminated? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u133	Representative Savola, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u134	Madam President! The biggest thing that was achieved at the end of the EU since 2016 when this directive came was to justify our defence solution. We have a general military service, a wartime army based on the reserve, and a self-regruitment, which is an essential part of the reservist and the voluntary defence of the country, and every soldier needs a firepower. We already have well-regulated arms legislation. What this adds up to is that I do not believe that there are major safety factors in this legislation, but here we are, in accordance with the framework conditions of the EU directives, in how it is brought into our own legislation. The most important message is that reserve operations can continue, voluntary national defence activities can continue and sports shooting can continue. This is the important thing that we have succeeded in and must continue to hold on to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u135	And then the Minister's reply, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u136	Mr President! First of all, thank you for your constructive contributions. You have been working with many of you throughout the year, and you are also, to a large extent, behind the positive aspects of the proposal. Here are some questions I'm trying to answer: First of all, Mr Kari asked about the priorities between the ministries, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. Well, it is only natural that the Ministry of Defence, of course, from the outset, is looking at this precisely in terms of the smoothest possible way in which licences under the reserve derogation can be granted. In general, with regard to any interministerial or inter-agency preparation, we will find a situation where we will also start to look for how both parties could be as fluent in the process as possible and transfer as many points as possible to the other side, which in any case must be checked out. This has now been on the agenda for the past few months for me quite such an operational question. On a political level, we have always been very much in agreement with Minister Niinistö on this main objective, that reservist activity is one of the cornerstones of Finland's national defence and that work must be done on it as far as can be done, and it has certainly been possible. Mr Heinonen and some others here asked whether there was a need in itself for these blackmails. As such, these attacks have also used weapons from various sources, which can now be better controlled by this licensing of large-scale chargers. This was the last Friday I discussed with Mrs Morgan Johansson, Swedish Minister for the Interior, that there is a certain understanding of the authorisation of large chargers. But it is true that if we were to do this in a purely Finland-based way, we would be writing in a different way the necessary monitoring updates of the legislation that have been made in this directive. But, as has been said in many speeches, we have been able to correct these issues from our point of view, with good cooperation, so that those who need permits for Finnish needs are able to continue to obtain them for proper reasons. The Finnish supplement was asked. If reference is made here, for example, to pistols during two years of training, it was added by Parliament, to which Mr Paatero also referred, by his own work before the adoption of this directive. This is the kind of difference between this law and the laws of other countries. But now that the directive is being implemented, it has been assumed that it will not make it difficult to grant licences for arms for what the directive is absolutely inevitable. Halmemenpää asked about the crimes and the reserve derogation. As Mr Hongisto has already pointed out, of course, when the Police Government grants these special permits, security checks will also be carried out, as is currently the case. It is in itself only an observation from the police that there can of course also be a reserver who has drifted into a criminal path, but it is easy to see here. Why 900,000? Mr Paatero also referred to this basic question. First of all, in the final analysis, the whole reserve, that is, that of the 900,000 people eligible for investment, is the fatherland reserve. It is beneficial that more of them voluntarily practice military defence, and it is useful to create good and meaningful conditions for it. Secondly, I would say that there is support for each other in the frequent line of reserve operations, which means that we must have an active field. That is also why it is good that there are also people who are not necessarily the first to invest in a wartime.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u137	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the Firearms Act, the Voluntary National Defence Act and the Military Act. As a gun enthusiast, a gun collector, a hunter and a reserver, and as a police officer in my civilian profession, I am pleased with this new arms code. This performance has, of course, been awaited mainly by horror in amateur circles. I think this is very good now. So, as a whole, this bill can be considered a good one. It only tightens up the points that the EU requires, that is, changes are made by reason, not by emotion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u140	Madam President! Good Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This amendment to the EU Arms Directive started at a time when a small series of serious terrorist attacks involving serial firearms took place in Europe. As was pointed out in that debate, there was a different collection of weapons, and that is why there are these elements here that this EU Arms Directive now contains. Nevertheless, as I said before, I believe that this type of issue could have been approached well, perhaps through national legislation, and looked at the situation in such a way that measures are taken where they are particularly needed. Of these measures, all in all what has been contained in that proposal along the way, some may have been oversized to Finland at least, but I think that good, broad national cooperation and agreement on this proposal have now been achieved in such a way that it is possible to move forward with this. This can safeguard the activities of the reservists. This reserve deviation was an important achievement of the good cooperation that was achieved in the EU, and now also of the future protection of hunting and sporting shooting. This proposal has, in fact, changed quite significantly during the consultation and also during the good cross-party cooperation, and partly even beyond the government—oppositional cooperation, and I think that this has become a way of moving forward with this. These major changes, which have now been made to the proposal, I would like to go through some of them at least because there is still quite a lot of misinformation in public and there is, in principle, information which has been contained in the proposal at some earlier stage, but what this government proposal brought to Parliament no longer contains. A few comments should therefore be made. These most significant changes are therefore related, inter alia, to the authorisation of large-scale charging devices and also to this reserve derogation and the related age limits and also to the length of the hobby requirements and community arms permits. A few comments on these key changes since the consultation, which have now been included in this government proposal, which is being discussed by Parliament today: The authorisation requirement for large-scale charging devices does not apply to non-functional devices or to charging devices manufactured on a series fire station that has been manufactured before 1946. This means that much of the commemorative and decorative items are excluded from this regulation. Important attention for many, there is still misinformation about this in public. The wording of the so-called reserve derogation has also been substantially modified so that ‘the term ‘eligible’ is used in this proposal for the ‘investment’ or ‘planned investment’. The references in previous presentations to the upper age limit have also been deleted, which means that the Defence Forces can also, if they wish, support an application for a reserve rifle with a large charging device for over 60 years of age. A very good argument in Finland, where our credible national defence is based on a strong, competent, experienced reserve army. The age limit for the Reservite exemption criterion has been calculated from 20 to 18 years. Activity is required for 12 months instead of the previous 24 months, and in addition to training in the National Defence Training Association, other reserve activities, such as training in the Reservoir Association, can also partially replace the demonstration of activity. In the version in the opinion, the first authorisation for the reserve base would have been fixed-term, which is now in principle valid for an indefinite period in this final proposal. The following amendment: Communities, such as shooting sports organisations and reservist organisations, may obtain Community licences for class A weapons on the basis of the training exemption criterion of the Arms Directive. This has been taken into account in this proposal. Also, for class A long firearms authorised on a sports exception basis, the requirement for activity is 12 months, not 24 months, and for handguns that requirement would remain 24 months of training before applying for a permit. A report on borrowing a gun should be made if the loan takes more than 30 days. We've had 10 days of performances in the past. A significant change to that too, and I believe that the 30-day deadline can be well advanced. Finally, the amendment on the prohibition of firearms has been removed from the proposal and the practice remains unchanged, meaning that the permit authority may include a condition that a firearm belonging to a collection of firearms may not be fired. In other words, this too has been corrected, as has been the case in the broad public debate. Mr President! This proposal should be carefully and carefully reviewed by Parliament and made sure that we go through what is known as the minimum requirement from the point of view of the directive. It is what we have and only reason to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u141	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Finns have consistently and consistently opposed excessive blackmail in the revision of the Arms Directive, but we have remained somewhat alone in the area of arms law. There are still more blackmails than the EU directive requires, and there are others in this proposal. First of all, the European Union has accepted and even promoted the proliferation of organised crime and terrorism in Europe, and then, on the basis of security threats, the fundamental rights of ordinary law-abiding citizens are being pushed down. What will be done in the European Union with regard to the real security threats, namely organised crime and terrorism, in order to eliminate them? The government's proposal does not address the means of reducing illicit firearms held by criminals. The selection of means would be easy to use, inter alia, the criteria for hardened penalties in cases where any instrument, including firearms, which is suitable for harming another person, has been found in the possession of a suspected professional or common-law criminal. Is it possible that this draft law in practice prohibits the granting of Community licences for new highly dangerous weapons, such as assault rifles plus 30 cartridges, to non-National Defence Training Associations? The will to defend the country is also under test. Reservists' self-registration is in the wind, as leaving shooting training solely for national defence training causes a difficult situation for the Reservilainen Union and reserve officers' activists.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u144	Madam President! The Government's bill for the amendment of the Firearms Act, which is in the referral debate, dates back to dark events in Paris in November 2015. After the event, the European Commission wanted to categorically ban the use of certain types of weapons. Our country's defence system relies on the general military service and the reserve that will be created through it, which will form, if necessary, the armed forces of the Defence Forces. In order for the reservist forces to be able to function when the time comes, it is necessary to maintain the skills of fire on a continuous basis. The practice of shooting skills has largely depended on the reserve's own activity. In addition, the ability to function has been maintained through refresher training and voluntary activities. Our Defence Agency, based on general military duty and large reserves, is rare in Europe. The majority of the armies of the Member States of the European Union are small in strength, and the large-scale compulsory military service in Finland is hardly used elsewhere. Also rare is our reservist activity, which relies on volunteering, own desire to develop and maintain the skills needed for national defence. One of the most important skills is shooting with its own weapons and also with reserve rifles. When the content of the European Union's Arms Directive came to light, it was precisely on the basis of our defence solution that the reserve agencies launched an unprecedented operation to make it compatible with national circumstances. The impact work was started by Parliament, which also accepted the objective of the negotiations as a national negotiating objective. Reservist organisations have worked hard to ensure that the model proposed by the Union for national law is not jeopardised by the good system in place. The lobbying work has been so extensive that this has not been done before, not at national level, and certainly not within the framework of the European Union. Thank you, too, to the officials of the Ministry of the Interior and Defence who, encouraged by the trust and staff of the Reservoirs, carried the national objectives through. Thank you also belong to the Members of the European Parliament. At the beginning of the summer, the content of national law still appeared to be worrying. The changes it introduced went beyond the legislative objective and, if implemented, would have significantly tightened the various aspects of the Arms Act, making it more difficult to hunt, to shoot at sports, to collect weapons, and specifically to do so by reservist activity. It was particularly bad that the arms licences granted on the basis of a national anomaly would have been limited so narrowly that a significant part of the reserve population could not have been authorised for a class A weapon. The present bill satisfies the reservists and thus a significant number of volunteers working in the field of national defence. On the basis of this presentation, associations will continue to be able to own long, self-charged, repeat-fired firearms for training purposes and will be able to practice in a safe and controlled place. According to the draft law, the time-limit for granting permits will be improved. It is also a good thing that a gun enthusiast does not engage in unwittingly illegal activities when there are clear orders to preserve the boxes and use the different types of weapons and their boxes. The authorisation of long boxes is one of the most important changes when the law comes into force. Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the Firearms Act has been refined along the way in such a way that it does not prevent the use of weapons, that dangerous weapons are not put into the wrong hands, that class A weapons can be used in shooting training and that the permit can be withdrawn if the conditions for granting the permit are no longer available. I hope that the law will move ahead in a favourable climate and thus contribute to ensuring continuity in the defence work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u145	We have spent over 45 minutes on this issue, so the debate and the debate will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u146	We will now resume the debate on the 6th item which was suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u147	Mr President! Indeed, this matter was discussed earlier in the day and many good speeches were made. The amendments to the draft law and the relevant points have already been exhaustively listed in several speeches. I do not think I need to repeat them here, so I will deal with this draft law in general. Mr President! Last Saturday, I started my 41st deer hunt. 40 autumns have been in the passport, and now the 41 begins. While I was sitting on my passport, I was thinking about this arms law in the referral debate and its effects on us hunters and arms enthusiasts. Over the last four decades, I have removed many of the terrible roads and pine trees and felt that I was doing a useful job for society as well. We hunters assist and serve society in our own way, including the very necessary large-scale game-related activities for the police. When we hunters feel that we are helping society, it is natural that society should at least take into account its assistants in some way. We do not expect cheers, but we also do not understand that in recent years we have been placed in the position of a cuckoo bell. Even the cuckoo of the clock is only necessary for an hour, and for the rest of the time it must be out of sight and out of the way. As a hunter, I feel the same way: When society needs help, there is a need for large-scale game assistants invisibly to assist in tracking and killing an injured animal in an accident. We are also needed to expel bears and wolves from the vicinity of human settlements. Once the official aid has been completed, the hunter leaves invisible to wait for the next invitation, as it were the cuckoo of the clock. The gun is a tool for the hunter and the reserve, and its tool must be pleasant and safe for the user. The tools are worn out, so they must be renewed or replaced by worn parts. Renewal is subject to authorisation. The police are responsible for the authorisation according to the legislation in force at any given time. We are working on a new Firearms Act for weapons owners or those intending to become owners. The purpose of the law is to improve security in such a way that at least a firearm would not threaten or endanger the safety of anyone. It's a good idea. I'm a cop. I understand that. As a police officer, I also understand that even the best law does not prevent all crimes, because there have always been and, unfortunately, always will be people who don't care about laws and regulations. When they do not care about the legislation in force, they acquire their weapons from the black arms market in Central Europe and bring them to Finland — bringing them to Finland when there is virtually no control at the borders. The smuggling of weapons is thus relatively easy and risk-free. Money buys you what kind of gun you want on the black market, and all the boxes and chargers you want for it. These are then used in various acts of violence. In my opinion, the threat of security is the black weapons being smuggled into Finland and used by organised crime. The security threat is not — that is, the security threat is not — an ordinary Finnish law-abiding gun owner. The draft law in the referral debate refers many times to the grounds on which the licence of a weapon must be withdrawn. There is a great deal of concern about the withdrawal of permits, but not about the fact that a gun is an ordinary person’s hobby as well as football or rubber hockey. There are a number of points in the draft law which I hope will receive attention in committee. I'm not going to list them exhaustively. I would just like to highlight one point which, as I recall, was agreed in the drafting working group, which was not the case in this draft law. The draft law states: ‘In addition, according to the B Directive, a single-firearm of category B will have to be withdrawn if it is found that a person has a charger that According to my notes, the preparatory working group agreed that the authorisation must be withdrawn only if the person holds the firearm to which this high capacity box fits. If a person has bought an assault rifle box in the shop and has no weapon for which this box fits, then there would also be no reason to withdraw the licence for a Class B gun. For example, if a person has a self-charged, repeat-fired, 30-06 Springfield-caliber but not an assault rifle-fired weapon, then possession of the magazine would not justify revoking that 30-06-caliber. Mr President, I hope that the committee's work will focus on this. It must be recorded in the law so clearly that the characterisation does not remain open to interpretation. Mr Kulmala and Mr Raatikainen raised in their own speech that the law should be amended so that the person carrying the service weapon would no longer be required to provide proof of the continuation of the hobby. I will not repeat that again, but I agree with the wishes of colleagues and colleagues. That's right, that's a very good point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u150	Mr President! Mr Hongisto did give such an excellent and exhaustive speech that it is a little difficult to continue, but I will try my best. Last week we had a government proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on the amendment of the Firearms Act before Parliament, and it is in a way also relevant to this bill that is now under discussion. In that government proposal, the content of the Firearms Act is not changed, which means that the amendment is essentially technical. Access to e-services is a long-awaited reform to streamline the process of handling and dealing with arms permits in the licensing authority. Unfortunately, it has been delayed, but a change in timetable is still necessary, since it is now being ensured that sufficient resources are available for the reform of the information system and that there is no further delay in the procurement and IT skills and the reform. At least I hope, Mr President, that this reform will not end up like the Vitja police project, which still costs millions of euros, but there is still no guarantee of completion. In any case, we already have a well-functioning weapons information system for applying for arms licences, so the delay in introducing the electronic services system will not cause any interruptions in the application for arms permits or the validity of the licences. As an arms collector, I am particularly pleased that the extension of the transitional provision allows for authorisation applications and notifications to be made with the assistance and coordination of the authorities. This procedure ensures the smooth operation of the arms collectors in the authority and the authorisation of weapons and objects and the correct entry of data into the weapons information system. The current amendment to the Arms Directive will also include museums and collectors in the scope of the Arms Directive and, unlike in the past, they will be subject to the same provisions as other private arms owners. The Arms Directive also defines what is meant by a museum and a collector of arms. The amendment also requires some changes to the Firearms Act. A definition of deactivated firearms has also been included in the Arms Directive, the amendment of which creates a need for amendment to the Firearms Act. In the future, deactivated weapons are subject to notification under the Arms Directive and their acquisition must be reported to the police. I hope that arms collectors will continue to be able to use these weapons and not just keep them in a case or locked space, because if someone collects knives, for example, then of course he will also use those knives and not just keep them in the case of a case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u151	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The case was put on the table at the plenary session on 10 October 2018 at the meeting on 16/0/2018 when the matter was removed from the agenda. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 8. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u152	Mr President! Finland’s civilian crisis management activity has changed significantly since the entry into force of the current Act on the participation of civilian personnel in crisis management in 2005. The participation of Finns in civilian crisis management has also developed and diversified as a result of changes in the international operating environment. Finland is also strongly involved in the operations of the EU, the OSCE, its traditional civilian crisis management partners, but also in the coalition against Isil, for example, in Iraq. At the same time, Finns also work much more in the secretariat of international organisations than before. In addition, international rescue operations have become increasingly differentiated from civilian crisis management to a separate and important part. At the beginning of 2017, the Ministry of the Interior appointed a study team to evaluate the status and tasks of the Crisis Management Centre. Among other things, the Group drew attention to the operating conditions of the Crisis Management Centre as an administrative part of the Emergency Response Centre. The working group was in agreement with what has already been said in previous studies: the connection between the Rescue College has not produced synergies, as the core tasks of the institute and the Centre are significantly different. The Group therefore recommended that the Crisis Management Centre be removed from the Emergency Response Centre administratively. The Ministry of the Interior examined various administrative models in preparation. Due to its small size, the Centre is not considered to be capable of becoming an independent agency acting as its own accounting unit. This is why the model has been taken from the so-called unit model. In the preparation, it has been considered that the Centre is best placed to consider Finland as a major power in crisis management if it acts in accordance with a separate unit model in connection with the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time, account would be taken of the administrative segregation of civilian crisis management and international rescue operations. Mr President! At the same time, it is proposed to reform the system of compensation for civilian crisis management experts. In particular, we want to facilitate the recruitment of family members to expert positions in civilian crisis management. At the same time, we will improve Finland’s chances of recruiting the best possible experts from different types of life situations. In fact, unlike the field tasks, the same condition compensation has been paid everywhere for secretarial tasks, even though the actual cost levels of cities have differed. In the future, the regulation will introduce a definition of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's system of foreign compensation to all the secretariat cities, and experts will also have access to reimbursement schemes for family expenses, i.e. children's day care, schooling costs and so on. Mr President! The administrative role of the crisis management centre is thus governed by law. The administrative transfer to the Ministry of the Interior is not linked to the physical location of the Centre. Physical location is not provided for by law and the bill does not request the consent of Parliament to transfer physical location. The Ministry of the Interior has decided to change the location in accordance with the procedure laid down in the location decisions. The Government proposal on administrative transfer and administrative development would therefore have been submitted to Parliament, even if the location of the Crisis Management Centre had not been changed in the second process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u153	Madam President! This referral debate is at least a partial version of Wednesday last week, when the Minister responsible for the transfer of the Crisis Management Centre, Kai Mykkänen, was not present in plenary and it was decided to postpone the matter to this week. Now we are in this situation. Mr President! Here's the background. On 6 April this year, the Ministry of the Interior informed Minister Kai Mykkänen of the decision to transfer the Crisis Management Centre from Kuopio to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. The decision was preceded by a report from the Study Group on the role and tasks of the Crisis Management Centre. In May 2017, Paula Risikko, then Minister for the Interior and Päivi Nerg, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, announced that the Crisis Management Centre will remain and will be developed in Kuopio as a network-led and functional, not as a location-specific activity. Since the announcement by Minister Risiko, there has been no information in favour of a new transfer. The Association of Northern Savo and the City of Kuopio have presented arguments in their own statement which showed the data and conclusions of the final report to be at least controversial. The preparation of the decision announced on 6 April 2018 appeared to be attitudeal, inadequate and contrary to good governance. The Ministry of the Interior did not refer the matter to the Regional Coordination Group until the Ministry informed the Minister of the Interior of the decision that had already been taken. This is the Minister for the Interior. From the point of view of the protection of legitimate expectations, the activities of Mr Mykkänen also appear to be contrary to good governance, as the previous Minister of Interior Risikko had already announced that the Crisis Management Centre would remain in Kuopio and that there were no new grounds for amending this decision and that no re-evaluation of the matter had been announced. I am also surprised at what the Minister has to say. Mr Risikko, who has come to a completely different conclusion from his predecessor, and who has reached a solution which is maintained and developed on the basis of the official's presentation, has been presented to the mute with responsibility for office during the first period of his term of office. The Ministry of the Interior also did not consult the relevant localities and the personnel of the Crisis Management Centre, whose majority wish to continue operations in Kuopio. In the Ministry of the Interior's press release, the decision to transfer the Crisis Management Centre was combined with the centralisation of education under the Helsinki Rescue School at Kuopio Emergency College. However, this issue has no real connection to the Crisis Management Centre, but the centralisation of education in Kuopio is due to the regional reform, which will lead to the end of education at the Helsinki Rescue School in any case. Linking matters with the information provided by the Ministry of the Interior was misleading. The Ministry's investment survey was done with emphasis so that Helsinki appears to be a more attractive solution than Kuopio. The Regional Coordination Group also drew attention to this in its decision. Only after the decision to transfer the Crisis Management Centre, which was already taken and communicated by the Ministry of the Interior, did the Ministry request the opinion of the Regionalisation Coordination Group and carried out an investment study. The investment report appears to be questionable when the transfer decision has already been notified. On 29 June this year, the Regionalisation Coordination Group unanimously issued its opinion requiring the Ministry to consider the need to refer the matter to the Government General Session before deciding on a matter falling within its competence. The Regionalisation Co-ordination Group stated that ‘The objective of the Regionalisation Act is to establish a common practice and a democratic decision in all In order to achieve the objectives of the Regionalisation Act, the investment solutions under discussion are of fundamental and wide-ranging importance.’ Mr President! Despite the serious consideration required by the Regionalisation Coordination Group in its opinion, the decision to refer the decision to the Government General Session was signed by Minister Mykkänen and Permanent Secretary Ilkka Salme to transfer the location of the Crisis Management Centre from Kuopio to Helsinki. That Decision was adopted on 5 July 2018 and was notified the following day. The final decision by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, has been taken in a very short time since the discussion of the coordination group on regionalisation, in which the Ministry of the Interior has not given much weight to an in-depth and careful evaluation. I do not believe that this is in line with good governance. Mr President! As a whole, the decision-making process on the location of the Crisis Management Centre is seen as questionable from the point of view of good governance. The Ministry of the Interior took a decision on the transfer and informed the decision but took the matter to the coordination group only after that. The Ministry of the Interior did not refer the decision to the General Session of the Government, despite the opinion and strong signal of the Regionalisation Coordination Group, the principle and broad scope of the decision and the democratic decision-making aimed at by the Regionalisation Act. On this basis, I have also asked the Chancellor of Justice to assess the legality of the conduct of the subjects of the complaint and whether the subject-matter of the complaint has acted in breach of good administrative behaviour or otherwise reprehensible. As I know, the Attorney General's Office is currently working on this matter and is also trying to get its answer after the ministry's opinion, which, of course, will also serve as the basis and basis for Parliament's decision-making. Mr President! In view of the above, I believe that Parliament should not accept... Although the Minister said that the transfer of the Crisis Management Centre from Kuopio to Helsinki is behind the minister's own decision, this is also an opportunity to assess the physical location of the Crisis Management Centre as a whole with this Government's proposal. The Government's proposal to amend the Act on the participation of civilian personnel in crisis management, the Rescue College Act and the Act on compensation for accident and service disability in crisis management tasks is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u154	Madam President! Representatives, listeners, it's nice to talk about the Crisis Management Center. I have been there for several weeks, and of course I have been in civilian crisis management for several years around the world — a familiar place. It is positive that the government has understood that the laws in the proposal should be updated and thus improve Finland’s capacity and ability to participate in international civilian crisis management and international rescue operations. According to the National Strategy for Civilian Crisis Management, civilian crisis management aims to restore society’s capacity to act, support the central social actors in the state, prevent conflicts and maintain peace and stability. The aim of longer-term actions is to strengthen public administration, the rule of law, human rights and democracy. The current provisions of the Civil Crisis Management Act are not fully in line with the objectives set out in the National Strategy for Civilian Crisis Management due to the changed priorities. That's why we need to update the law. The obligation under the Civil Crisis Management Act to grant leave of absence or leave from employment for the period of employment currently applies to the State as an employer. The obligation does not apply to municipalities or joint municipal authorities which, however, are the main employers of persons involved in international rescue operations. That is why it is very important that people are also brought into the rescue sector by means of legislative changes. The proposal also clarifies the rights and obligations of persons posted abroad by Finland and their employers. It is also necessary to extend the compensation of accident and service disability in crisis management tasks, in line with military crisis management, to persons in training under the Civil Crisis Management Act and exercises necessary to achieve and maintain Finland’s required preparedness. It is particularly necessary to take greater account of accidents and service sickness in the law, as crisis management is often carried out in areas as dangerous or even more dangerous as military crisis management. Under the Civil Crisis Management Act, the Act on compensation for accident and service disability in crisis management tasks applies to persons currently engaged in employment and training, but it does not apply to persons taking part in an exercise under the Civil Crisis Management Act. However, international rescue activities, for example, involve exercises that are necessary to achieve and maintain the preparedness required by Finland’s international commitments. It is necessary to harmonise the law in this proposal. The Crisis Management Centre was established in Kuopio in 2007. The main criterion at the time was the new and adequate facilities of the college. At the time, there was little assessment of the functional relationship between the institute and the centre. According to the 2017 study group, the connection of the Emergency Response Centre does not create synergies. Some of the common services are expensive and inappropriate for civilian crisis management needs. Due to the current location of the centre, cooperation with ministries and other partners has proved particularly difficult. The location may also reduce participation in national and international cooperation in this field. The reports of the working groups show that the operations of the Crisis Management Centre and the Emergency Response Centre are different and that the current management model is not working in the best way. It is therefore not appropriate for the Crisis Management Centre to continue in connection with the Rescue College. The most important thing is that the whole thing works. The unit model strengthens the independence and decision-making powers of the Crisis Management Centre in its matters. The separate unit model also supports the cross-sectoral and networked model of cooperation in civilian crisis management. The Ministry of the Interior's connection supports cross-administrative activities better than the University of Rescue. Law changes respond well to administrative problems arising from the differences in the core tasks of the Crisis Management Centre and the Rescue College. Investing in Helsinki is excellent for cooperation, as the International Unit of Defence Forces (FINCENT) is already in Helsinki, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other partners. Of course, transport connections to Helsinki may also be a little simpler than to Kuopio. There are also quite a lot of international courses that bring people around the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u158	Madam President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the Act on the participation of civilian personnel in crisis management, the Rescue College Act and the Act on compensation for accident and service disability in crisis management tasks. Perhaps the biggest and most important line of the Government proposal is that, in line with the Minister’s policy, the Crisis Management Centre will move from Kuopio to Helsinki from the Rescue College. I do not consider this move to be in any way defensive. This solution is another example of how we regionalise agencies, i.e. centralise activities within Ring Three. In these state administration systems, we are moving in a completely different direction from what is, for example, the Nordic model. Why on earth do we have to concentrate all the government units in one area all the time? The latest example is the location of the judicial office in Vantaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u165	Madam President! Although that physical location of the Crisis Management Centre is not really in this actual legislative package, that is what I too want to talk about in my speech. And, of course, thank you for the presence of the Minister. This matter has also been dealt with here in Parliament a little bit of this kind of compromise, because here yesterday evening we sat for quite a long time and expected that this last item on the list would come under discussion, but then it was concluded that that evening it did not fit into the minister's schedule, and it was then tabled for today. But it is good that now we are talking about this subject. This Crisis Management Centre in the context of the Emergency Response College and its relocation — this is where representatives Kulmala and Rossi have well explained the background, referred to it until May 2017, the arguments of the then Minister Risiko and Permanent Secretary Nergi about this networked approach, which at the time seemed to be all right and acceptable and which now, when the new Minister took action, suddenly became inactive for some reason. This does raise a lot of questions. How is it possible that, in such a short time, what the previous Minister had considered to be a perfectly working solution suddenly no longer existed? In Kuopio, the Crisis Management Centre has had excellent facilities in the sense that it has been possible to do this in the context of the Rescue College, one might say, even at European level, in respect of prestigious and functional training areas. I have visited those areas myself, and there are indeed ministries all over Europe — I do not know if there is going to be any further — to get to know these areas of practice. And there indeed, when there emergency services and rescue students are in the same training facilities, can be arranged such things as very versatile and very authentic different crisis management tasks and various rescue exercises. In that sense, too, I wonder whether it is really the case that these facilities are suddenly on the same level somewhere else. Of course, here I was a little surprised to hear that there was a speech from the opposition Finns, which could well have come out of the mouth of the government party, and then here, on the one hand, Mr Kulmala and Mr Rossi gave the distinguished speeches as representatives of the government parties and, on the other hand, made it quite clear why they are so confused about these decisions, which have now been taken from the Minister's side. And, yes, it has to be said that these arguments are now very much the subject of this debate, why we have come to these solutions and in such a short period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u166	And now for the reply, Mr Mykkänen, three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u167	Mr President! Thank you for your constructive and analytical contributions. The content of the proposal was mainly dealt with by Mr Raatikainen, and I understood that support was also received for a jointly prepared line on how the management of the Crisis Management Centre should be developed and also these staff requirements for tasks requiring action. Thank you for that. Although this proposal does not really apply to the physical location, I appreciate the opportunity for a debate between Parliament and MPs, and I also comment on this theme for my part. Firstly, when I started as Minister of the Interior, the decision was in the preparatory phase for this administrative change and location. It would have been easier, of course, to keep it in place, but I may just justify myself when the matter is on my desk, which maximises the quality and efficiency of the operation. In this respect, studies in previous years have been recommending that the location of this case is not the most effective one at the moment, and the studies actually carried out during this process have strengthened it, particularly during this summer. Why did we announce this already in April before the discussion of the Regional Coordination Group, for which it was, of course, known that it was in line with the normal way of dealing with it? Because, in any case, it would have been made public in the context of the AKR agenda and we considered it reasonable that it should also be told about the direction of the ministry when it is going there as a proposal. This report, which was praised by the AKR, in fact, which we then did in June, as they called for, also brought something new to this debate. When the AKR took a position on this matter, it did not in itself recommend that the matter be referred to the Government, but really required the Ministry of the Interior to consider the need for a solution to the matter falling within its remit. This is the reflection we had to make in relation to the Constitution, according to which matters of general and fundamental importance must be brought to the Council of State, and, despite their symbolic value, this is now only about 1% of government employees in the Kuopio region. For this reason, the reference to the general scope of the matter was also deleted from the AKR's unanimous opinion. [Markku Ross’ interlude] In its unanimous opinion, the AKR also notes that the investment statement shows that the operational aspects clearly advocate the deployment of the Crisis Management Centre in Helsinki. In the survey, the majority of staff also say that they will: Helsinki as the best location for the operations of the Centre. I understand the challenge faced by the personnel established in Kuopio. Even after that, when the majority say so, I think it also speaks its own language. In this, Mr Essayah rightly described what was being sought ten years ago, that the training area at the Rescue College — I myself have familiarised myself with it, it is also an internationally distinguished field of rescue training — would operate in a synergistic way. In practice, however, it has not been used in the last five years, but the exercises have been held in the Police College training area or in Säkylä with the army. The nature of crisis management has moved in the direction which unfortunately no longer serves this connection with the Rescue College.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u168	I will give Mr Essayah and Mr Ross the answers, and then we will have a deadline again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u169	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister's speech should be understood in such a way that, in fact, civilian crisis management and, in particular, civilian personnel there are beginning to be somewhat less and there is only one aspect of civilian crisis management that is going on more and more to deal with the various types of armed conflict and the like. Somehow this makes me feel that way. Since the best practice areas are suddenly in an army area, must we now somehow understand that this priority has also been sought at national level by our own decision to go then to take more and more specifically to that side of military crisis management? However, I believe it is a question of civilian crisis management and the involvement of civilian personnel. This comment by the minister was also a little confusing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u170	Mr President! As I recall, the reports say that the majority of the personnel of the Crisis Management Centre would like to remain in Kuopio or at least very close. I've got those papers in that bag, but I'm not gonna dig them up right now. But whether it is or not, it is quite interesting that when the staff in Helsinki said that they did not want to move to Kuopio after the job, it was considered to have a great deal of weight. In this case, the weight has not been the same. Then on all the grounds that there is a ministry in Helsinki, there are NGOs here and there is easier access to Europe, as it were,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u171	Would the Minister like to respond? — 1 minute from the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u172	Mr President! Mr Essayah's question: There is no specific policy orientation towards military crisis management in civilian crisis management tasks, but in practice the requirements of operations have gone to the fact that experts in the use of training areas need to be connected to military training or demanding training in police operations in the Tampere Police College training area. This has only been a fact, which has also been stated in this report. I would also like to point out here, in the light of the certainty that Mr Rossi previously referred to the complaint made to the Chancellor of Justice and to his future decision, that in itself it does not affect the handling of this bill, since the complaint does not concern the change in the status of the Crisis Management Centre proposed in the proposal, which in itself is completely independent of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u173	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 9. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u174	Mr President! The Government has submitted to Parliament a proposal for a law amending the Student Aid Act and some related laws. The presentation states that a low-income family student under 20 years of upper secondary school or vocational education would be entitled to an educational material supplement of EUR 46.8 per month. The right to an educational material supplement would have been increased by a 17- to 19-year-old student living with a parent receiving a study grant, a 17-year-old independent student living with a low-income family and a student under 17 years of age. The educational material supplement would not be taken into account as income in housing allowance, income support or military assistance. It is proposed to align the criteria for the support period of the school year for upper secondary school education with the basic criteria for the support period for vocational education and training, in which case the support period for the school year for upper secondary school education would normally be extended by one month. It is proposed that the parents' income concept be changed to take into account taxable earnings and capital income instead of the income tax for the student's parents as referred to in the Income Tax Act. At the same time, the income thresholds will be increased by about 5% to avoid tightening the needs test. A change in the concept would allow the use of the Incomes Register in the implementation of student support. The proposal relates to the draft budget for 2019 and is intended to be discussed in connection with it. The proposal will increase central government expenditure by around EUR 12 million throughout the year. The aim of the proposal is to improve the financial capacity of the youngest students from low-income families to study. In addition, the aim is to promote equality between students in upper secondary school and vocational education. The starting point for preparing the material supplement was to focus the material supplement on those most in need of support as simply as possible. This led to a model of a single increase in euro, in practice an increase in the study grant for students already in the context of a low-income increase. The student could receive a material supplement if the total earnings and capital income of the parents subject to tax does not exceed EUR 41100. The income limit is the same as the income threshold for the low-income increase in the study grant. In addition, students under 17 years of age of low-income families were included in the study material supplement because they are not otherwise covered by the student grant. The educational material supplement would be part of the monthly student grant. It is therefore not a separate benefit, an allowance per semester or a difference in the different fields of study, as such implementation options would have unnecessarily complicated the system. The monthly educational material supplement is also compatible naturally with other monthly-based benefits. Approximately 33,000 students would receive regular material supplements, which is more than half of those under 20 years of age and less than one fifth of all students under 20 years of age in upper secondary school and vocational education. In addition, according to the proposal, the basis for the aid period for the academic year of upper secondary school education will be aligned with the basis for vocational education and training. In this case, the typical support period for a school year would be extended in upper secondary school from 9 months to 10 months. The extension concerns approximately 15,000 upper secondary school students and they would receive an average of EUR 115, i.e. an additional month of support. Mr President! There are different estimates of the costs of the study materials and in practice they can vary very much from one institution to another and from one subject to another because of the student's individual needs. For students from a low-income family, the material supplement would amount to around EUR 1,400. The student could use that amount for textbooks and other study materials needed in upper secondary school or vocational education, laptops, calculators or software licenses, for example. In vocational education, students can also acquire necessary work equipment by sector. The sum covers typical educational material costs in vocational education and most of the average educational material costs in upper secondary school. The purpose of the material supplement is therefore to improve the student's income, so it is justified to reconcile it with certain benefits. The educational material supplement would be made privileged in the Income Support Act. In this case, when calculating income support, the material supplement would not be taken into account as income. Thus, the educational material supplement received by a young person living in a income support family would not reduce the basic income support paid to the family by the amount of the educational material supplement. The educational material supplement would also be a privileged income in military and housing support and would not reduce these benefits either. Mr President! The measures proposed in the proposal will target a significant group of students and will significantly improve the livelihood of students from low-income families in particular. In this way, the proposal will implement the cultural rights of the Constitution to equal opportunities for other basic education, in accordance with its abilities and specific needs, and to develop itself without prejudice to wealthlessness — thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u175	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u176	Mr President! The starting point for the secondary material supplement is good, but there is also a problem with the legal change. The problem of the cost of secondary education is real. The cost of materials causes pain in many families, and for some youths it can even lead to school dropout. However, the government's medicine for the problem is incomplete. It is based on the ideology of poverty aid rather than seeking solutions for universal people. The Left considers the learning material supplement to be a better solution for all genuinely free of charge in secondary school. Mr President! In the Government's proposal, students who are under 20 years of age living at home or under 17 years of age who are not covered by study aid and whose parents' incomes are low are entitled to the educational material supplement. Mr Terho, I would like to ask: why are the 18- to 20-year-olds living alone, whose economic situation is often very difficult? I believe that this is a significant deficiency. The second point concerns the definition of "depreciation". The educational material supplement is mainly allocated to persons entitled to the low-income increase in student grant, which means that the total income of the parents is less than EUR 41100. The problem here is that even families above that income threshold can have significant income problems due to, for example, sickness, family size, debt or irregular income. It may also be that not all parents always want to support their child’s education financially. The educational material supplement, which would be EUR 46.80 per month, would be allocated on top of the student allowance for each month. In reality, however, purchases often have to be made in the form of larger one-off investments, and therefore the monthly increase may not always serve its purpose in the best possible way. We must also consider how we will be able to ensure better in the future that material costs are generally reduced or at least not increased when there will be indirect government subsidies for producers in the future. In other words, we also need structural measures to curb the overall cost of learning materials. Mr President! The Left Alliance considers the objective of facilitating the financial situation of students to be right, and we consider the increase in learning material to be a positive thing in itself and to move forward, but we ourselves would have gone on to solve the problem completely free of charge through the second stage. The citizens' initiative has also been in the debate here in Parliament, and I hope that it will be brought to the table during this parliamentary term. We in the Left Alliance would be prepared to continue with compulsory secondary education and at the same time make education genuinely free of charge. This would ensure the transition of all young people to the second stage, increase equality and reduce social exclusion and long-term unemployment and the associated heavy economic costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u177	Mr President! This presentation is very important and means a lot to thousands of Finnish students and their families. Indeed, as the Minister said, there are 33,000 students affected. This is an important way for the Blue Parliamentary Group to support the education of young people. After all, this left the spending limits debate, the negotiations of the government, our own proposal, and it must be credited to both the assembly and the centre that it was not difficult to get support for this, so all the groups saw this as a good thing. In the future, low-income students will receive approximately EUR 47 per month of support for the purchase of school books, and the support is intended for those under 20 years of age studying for under-deprived families and upper secondary school students. And what is very significant is that the aid does not cut income support, which means that it is targeting those most in need. In this speech by Mr Sarkkinen, I was a little surprised whether the Left really wants — and whether this is also the position of the Social Democrats, I cannot directly answer — to pay for the teaching materials of mountain counselors from public funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u180	I give Mr Sarkkinen the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u181	Mr President! The Left Alliance wants to extend compulsory education to a secondary level and thus also guarantee free secondary education for everyone, so you have quite rightly understood. Comprehensive school in Finland is also free of charge for everyone. School books are free of charge there for children of both mountain counselor and unemployed persons. Do you want to take away the free school books from primary school? We ourselves see that the school path must also be developed for the second stage, and if compulsory education and the school path are developed for the second stage, then free learning materials must also be included. We consider it so that mountain counselors will then pay it back in progressive taxation. It is based on a welfare society: progressive taxation, universal services, universal education. So we can see that, through progressive taxation, mountain counselors will also compensate for those free school books that children receive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u182	Madam President! Certainly the second level, free of charge, is a good long-term objective, but it must be remembered that it costs at least about 100 million and does not yet take into account travel costs or housing costs, which must be taken into account in that situation if we are to talk about a genuinely free second level. At present, many young people are forced to move away from secondary vocational education or travel quite long distances, and they are talking about quite different sizes. But I understand that if one does not want to worry about debt, then such ideas can be brought up. I think that Mr Terho's proposal is good and responsible in this situation, and we are concerned, above all, with the young people who are now most in need of help.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u183	I will give Mr Elo and Mr Sarkkinen a reply, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u184	Mr President! I believe that the line of the Left Alliance here, as in fact quite a few things, is in itself consistent and, in a certain way, understandable from the point of view they are looking at. In other words, you are suggesting that both there should be a free second level — indeed from public funds to everyone — and then there should also be an extension of compulsory education. In that sense, it has its logic and its comprehensibility, but in that sense the blues are not in favour of a free second degree for everyone, but precisely of targeting those who most need it, for example through such an educational supplement. And we are not in favour of extended compulsory education. As the name says, at least at some point it has been agreed jointly that it is the basic task that we all have in this society, to go to that primary school, and it provides a certain framework. But here we believe that there is, of course, a difference between ideological and practical in what is supported. I understand your view in this respect, although I do not agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u185	Mr President! Indeed, we see that without secondary education there will be no more success in today's society and in the labour market, and we see that the second level and the completion of it belongs to everyone, and we see that, therefore, compulsory education should be continued there and, as it is there in primary school, free of charge. Then, if we talk about these costs, the huge social costs will be incurred if young people do not continue their studies at a secondary level. It is the safest way to long-term unemployment, to exclusion, to enormous human costs, but also to enormous economic costs. Many economists have also recently raised this issue and recommended continuing compulsory secondary education as a cost-effective investment in the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u186	Madam President! As has probably been said here in every speech, the presentation of the study material supplement in itself is extremely good, and it certainly belongs to the Minister and the Ministry, and perhaps from the point of view that in some way, although the opposition is, I see the value of the fact that, when we usually consider the structures and the way in which the presentations and things are going here, there has, however, been some kind of intervention on the issue that has taken place during the course of the period, and I would see that there has been some attempt to make a first step in some kind of framework. I absolutely agree, and we are in the Greens at all, that free secondary must be the goal, but at the same time this can be seen as an important first step, and it is also important, of course, that we start with the lowest income people. The one criticism or challenge that clearly exists in this proposal, and what has at least been raised at this stage, relates to this payment every month. And then, when we think about the real costs there in studies, often they may, for example, accumulate at the beginning of studies and usually there should be a larger sum, for example, when we talk about the purchase of textbooks or the purchase of a computer or some other device or instrument. Now the proposal has referred to such things as student loans or things like different payment accounts, but we see that it is then a time questionable solution that, for example, under the age of 18 as if at the same time were directed to this kind of loan focus. So this is a clear problem that has arisen in this proposal. What is also great is that we are now bringing the whole second level of equal treatment in these months of aid, that is to say, the ten, that is important. But definitely the longer-term objective should be the free second stage, we drive it firmly. And I see that it is also linked to the broader vision of 2030 and to raising the educational level of Finnish people in general, and that goal is absolutely also supported by the free second level, and then it is also something that can have a price tag because it is a broad, big goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u187	Madam President! Good Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This proposal is very good and worthy of support, thanks to Mr Terho. For many, the educational material supplement is a very important, welcome supplement. Less than EUR 50 per month shall be a significant contribution to those young people,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u192	Mr President! After all, in connection with the spending limits debate, this material supplement, which the government intends to implement, was mentioned, and now the legislation is before us here — of course, there is another important issue here: this equalisation of the months of support for secondary education. This is the kind of government proposal that I praised even then after the debate on the spending limits, and I said that it is absolutely possible to acknowledge this from the opposition. It is important that parents’ under-utilities or low incomes do not prevent young people from studying. Of course, it is possible to consider whether there should be a little different ambiguity in this support. As a mother of a high school student, I know that at the beginning of the period there will always be those book purchases and there will be more in a course form of upper secondary school, but then, for example, in vocational education and training, there is usually a need for those contributions to various learning materials at the beginning of the semester. Here the left raised this universal solution. It does come to the problem that, at the end of the day, it might not be so universal, or it really does go to the massive costs, considering that it is not just about those learning materials, but if you think of the free second degree, then that is the cost of living, that is the cost of travel. From the point of view of Eastern and Northern Finland, secondary school students currently have the longest trips to an educational institution, i.e. they either travel quite long distances — between 60 and 70 km — or go to live in the place where the school is. Yes, there is much more talk about costs than the 100 million that have been estimated without these costs of living and travel expenses when we start talking to everyone about the free second stage. Therefore, I personally think it is important to balance those opportunities, to give the same opportunities and to allocate it to those families and students who really need it and where one can say... It can never be that a parent’s purse is the one that determines the possibilities for a child or young person to progress in their own studies. That is where Mr Heinonen pointed out this interesting situation, which this experiment in Helsinki is now leading to, is it true that then there will really be a much larger number of Helsinki residents, i.e. applying for upper secondary schools in Helsinki and then registering in Helsinki, depending now on the city's decision as to whether to be a resident of a municipality or whether to be a student in a municipality's upper secondary school? This is an interesting experiment, and I'm sure we'll be watching with interest elsewhere in Finland where this is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, the time allocated to this matter is now over, but I would like to give the floor to Mr Puumala and Mr Elo. Of course, they have the right to speak for seven minutes or a minute or perhaps in between. I'm not gonna start directing them. I think they're quite right to be able to measure what they're saying.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u194	Mr President! The excellent proposal is therefore on the table, and we are very happy to go to committee on this. After all, the aim is to achieve a genuinely free second degree. I think that we are now starting in the right order from those who need the support most and who have the starting point so that parents are not able to support that study so much. I'm glad we got this done together. And if there is too little praise for others in this Chamber, I would also like to praise the minister: you have been quite such a credit box or back-up in this area, taking this matter forward, it has been great to do this together. This is a significant step and a great day for the Finnish school institution. We enable and promote equality. There is still a lot of work to be done, and we must always remember to say it here from the government, but this is a big and important step. I'm glad we made this happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u195	Mr President! Knowing the Minister's interests, I share the thanks, but I would say that the Minister is a heavyweight boxer on this issue. This has also required a certain amount of boxing, not so much in the government, but, let us say, there is always a bit of a struggle for funding to get the money. Everyone has been in favour of this all along, it must be acknowledged, both the centre, the coalition and the blue. To this good speech by Mrs Essayah, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I think it is essential now, if we are talking about the idea that there really is a free second stage and that public money is being paid — as Mrs Heinonen said, 100 million upwards — it is also a question of ideology, which I think is important: do you think that we are going to the second stage on a voluntary basis — as almost everyone is going now — because, of course, the truth is that it is needed in today’s world, or do you think that it makes sense that by some kind of coercive action, as it would of course be necessary, if compulsory, and then a second level for everyone through it, in itself logically, free of charge? The view of the Blues is that compulsory education should not be extended to a second degree, free of charge, but rather that the teaching material supplement must be the targeted means — equality of opportunity, not equality of outcome. I am a little surprised to conclude, Mr President, that the City of Helsinki is now making such a unilateral decision. It may also put some pressure on neighbouring cities in Vantaa and Espoo, where I myself am authorized. But on the other hand, it will certainly be expensive for Helsinki, because there are certainly some students from these municipalities who are already looking for Helsinki, which in itself can be an attractive place to study.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u196	Mr President! Thank you to all the representatives and the parties for their support for this, and quickly put it to the finish line. This really is the basic idea that each of us used different wordings is precisely the promotion of equality of opportunity. Many have also seen this as a first step towards a completely free second stage, and why can it not be understood that way, but this has now been done with the funds that are now available, and there is a plan that can be implemented as quickly as possible to promote equality of incomes and, therefore, opportunities. Mr Sarkkinen raised a specific question as to why the 18 to 19-year-olds living alone have been left out. I actually have a whole A-fourne here, what different reasons was there for this, but I'm now reading one point here — you can have the rest, if you want, with this A-four. In other words, if this had been extended to independent secondary students aged 18 to 19 years, it would have become complicated to consider the need for older incomes, extending to the support of adult people. In other words, there would be more levels of study grant and the system would become more complex. Increasing the need-tested educational material allowance based on the income of parents is therefore a problem for adult adults living independently because the adult population is no longer subject to maintenance obligations. — I still have A4 more of these problems, which officials would have told me, which would have been the case in that technique. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u197	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 13. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u198	Mr President! This government proposal proposes a temporary amendment to the law on improving the competitiveness of vessels used in maritime transport. I think this is a very timely change right now. Finnish maritime transport has been in difficulties for a long time and has not been helped in any way by the actions of the previous government. As a result of this proposal, the State would pay back half of the employer's contribution to unemployment insurance contributions paid to employees who are generally or strictly taxable and for whom a withholding tax has been paid. If a withholding tax has been paid instead of withholding tax, the unemployment insurance contribution would not be refunded as aid. Finland has notified the crew support to the Commission and the aid is subject to the Commission’s decision. The purpose of crew support is to improve the international competitiveness of the Finnish merchant fleet. Even now, ships are being flagged out to countries with a lower cost level, and I think that is natural. Even shipping companies don't do charity. They do business. Crew support also supports the security of supply in Finland. Finnish law applies to ships flying the Finnish flag both under normal and exceptional conditions. Security of supply is particularly important in food and fuel transport and in crisis situations. When over 90 per cent of Finnish exports and more than three-quarters of imports are transported by sea, you would think that much more would be desired to support maritime transport. In the case of Finland's competitors, a favourable tonnage tax solution and the possibility of mixed manning, i.e. the possibility of hiring seafarers from third countries outside the EU Member States, at least in part on working conditions outside the flag state, is essential for the international competitiveness of shipping. These measures should also be recommended in Finland. Mr President! This government proposal is a very welcome change and makes it easier for Finnish maritime transport to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u199	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to make a technical correction to the change in crew support that entered into force in 2016, which has not had the expected effect. At the time of the change, shipowners were promised that it would be cost-neutral. However, this was not the case and in 2016, 2017 and 2018 shipping companies have received EUR 16 million less back than before. This information comes from the Marine Man Pension Fund. This is a significant amount of money. In its proposal, the Government also states that the reform has been unfavourable to shipowners with a high level of employment. Last year, the Ministry of Transport and Communications budgeted to correct this, and it was included in the draft budget submitted by the Government to the Parliament. However, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the proposal was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure; the matter would be prepared instead in a working group of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This has been done and there has been a representative from both the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Finance. The Maritime Pension Fund has calculated and stated that the amount to be budgeted should be EUR 5.8 million in order to make the reform cost-neutral. However, the proposal now only budgets EUR 3 million. It is clear from the proposal and the media too that the Ministry of Finance has opposed the budgeting of the entire amount of EUR 5.8 million. The result is that the proposed change is an improvement which is still not cost-neutral for shipping companies, as previously promised. It is certainly not good if previous promises are not redeemed. The proposal also means that the Finnish system is no longer as good as the Swedish system. There is also a risk that this will lead to the flagging out of the Finnish merchant fleet, which would be very unfortunate. The flagging out does not just mean the loss of ships and Finnish jobs. It also means concern for the municipalities where sailors live. Finnish seamen who live in Finnish municipalities but work on a Swedish flag, for example, pay taxes on Sweden. However, they use the public services of Finnish municipalities in practice, which causes a cost problem for both the state and municipalities. This is another reason why avoiding flagging is so important. In order to minimise the risk of flagging out, care must be taken to ensure that the Finnish system is as good as Sweden and to ensure that the change is truly cost-neutral, as promised during the reform. This means that EUR 5.8 million is needed, not just half of it. I hope that the government will be willing to look at this again so that we can put this right in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u200	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, we shall proceed to the next item on the agenda, i.e. 14. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u201	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to improve the position of children suspected or accused of a crime in criminal proceedings, and I think that is the right objective. A prisoner under the age of 18 must currently be kept separate from adult prisoners, unless his or her interests require otherwise. This government proposal proposes that an inmate who has reached 18 years of age during an incarceration period could continue to be kept separate from other adult inmates if justified by his circumstances. However, he could be held in the same premises as a prisoner under the age of 18 only if this was not the case for an 18-year-oldinspection against the incarceration ‘ — in this case,I would add that ‘unless it impedes the pre-trial investigation and the conduct of the investigation’. At present, the pre-trial investigation authority has to inform the minor of his or her rights, so supplementing the provisions on reporting obligations does not significantly increase the workload of the pre-trial investigation authorities. Therefore, the proposals on the obligation to notify do not have any significant financial implications. Mr President! I believe that this proposal complements the current pre-trial law on pre-trial investigations of 15 to 17-year-olds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u202	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-17-ps-102.u203	Mr President! In Finland, postal activities are regulated by the Postal Act. The purpose of the Postal Act is to ensure the availability of postal services, in particular universal service, on equal terms throughout the country. However, the Postal Act does not apply to international postal services to the extent that an international agreement binding on Finland covers international transport. In this way, it must avoid duplication of application and possible conflict situations. This government proposal proposes that Parliament approve the World Postal Union Convention. Its main changes concern the modification of the terminal fee system and the reform of the contract product system. In addition, changes were made to, inter alia, the processing of personal data and the regulation of dangerous substances. The aim of the Government proposal is to obtain the approval of Parliament for the Convention of the World Postal Union, which was approved by the UPU General Assembly at the Istanbul Congress in 2016. I believe that this proposal is necessary and timely. In fact, according to Article 40, this revised Convention has already entered into force on 1 January 2018 and will remain in force until the entry into force of the next Congress’s Conventions. The most important task of the post office has not changed in decades, at least at the thought level. However, the current situation is not in any way defensible. People living in cities get their mail normally, but who is served by evening mail delivery in rural areas? At least no business or newspaper subscribers. I think that one distribution in the morning would satisfy everyone's needs. The early delivery of mail and the basic distribution should therefore be combined. At present, the number of letters and mails other than newspapers is so small that they could be distributed well the next day in connection with early distribution. In this case, the newspapers in the sparsely populated area would also move out of the morning and the subscribers would have their magazines at a humane time. The magazine that brings the news from the early evening is no longer a newspaper. The newspaper is an important lifehole for many Finns and still the most important source of information. The newspaper distributes information equally across the country and is accessible to every citizen. The current high distribution prices are reflected in newspaper order prices, and those with low incomes are not allowed to continue as subscribers. Society’s support for the distribution of newspapers would be a hand-out of society for this important communication. Reading newspapers educates the people and keeps people on the edge of time, so to speak. Whether it is Finnish or global mail, a paper version of the news is still expected for mailboxes.
