ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u2	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u3	Mr President! The citizens have followed with dismay when it has been revealed that Trafi's register has allowed the citizens' personal data to be fished without hindrance and without supervision. Simple search options have made it possible to get the full name and date of birth of a person. Guessing has even figured out the rest of the social security number. This public driving licence information has become a tool for stealing personal data. According to Trafi's statistics, the valid driving licence is 3.7 million citizens and it can be said that at least their privacy has been violated. In recent years, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has placed a strong emphasis on the potential for exploiting public information resources. As part of this development, Trafi's transport register has also emerged. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you assess the impact of the Trafi case on citizens' confidence in the ability of the authorities to process data registers and what you intend to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u4	Mr President! The confidence of Finns in the authorities is particularly high, and it is our job, of course, to maintain this confidence. When I became Minister, I received a lot of positive feedback from the Ministry of Transport and Communications that Trafi’s services are increasingly electronic and easily accessible and that Trafi can also be easily accessed in electronic form. It is also, of course, particularly important that this confidence should be maintained and improved. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has required that Trafi's systems be audited. This has also been done, and The Director-General of FICORA has today stated that Trafi’s systems are better than average from a security perspective. Nevertheless, challenges have also been identified. These challenges are now being addressed: each system will be reviewed individually and as their security can be ensured, they will be returned to service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u6	Mr President! The problem cannot be overturned into Trafi's lap, and the change in the Director-General of Trafi will not remedy this situation. The Data Protection Ombudsman Aarnio warned against privacy in the traffic services law as early as summer 2017. It has now been revealed that there have been several warners during the autumn. At the second reading of the Transport Services Act, comments on data protection came from both us in the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Constitutional Committee. This is the same bill that the Constitutional Committee criticised as incomprehensible in its structure. The government has been pointed out for haste and imprecise drafting of legislation throughout this parliamentary term. Minister Berner, the preparation of the law and the supervision of the agency are your responsibility. Is it possible that your ministry's own office was no longer able to make sense of the law and its purpose? And how is it that the Data Protection Supervisor has asked for a report on the service in August and the Ministry wakes up to the problems of its agency?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u7	Mr President! From a legislative point of view: When the law on transport services has been the subject of statements, we have received the opinion of the Data Protection Supervisor. This statement has been taken into account in its entirety in the law which has been given to Parliament. In addition to this, the law has undergone a constitutional review in the Constitutional Committee and has also received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications. However, there were no specific comments specifically regarding data security or data protection. In fact, I have just gone through these and I have also looked at your own aspects of it. On the contrary, in fact, the law has also received feedback that it is specifically in line with data protection legislation. In addition to this, when the law is enforced by an authority, it is the duty of the authority to provide not only the law on transport services but also the law on transport services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u8	Mr President! This does not seem to be our point of view, because throughout the whole parliamentary term we have systematically criticised this bad legislation, both in the Committee on Transport and Communications and in the opinions of Mr PeV on the transport services law. This is a serious issue. It is a question of public confidence. In this digitalising world and in an international platform economy, individual data protection issues become a fundamental right. How can we ensure that? You say that information is public, but it also allows for such mass leaks. This is really a very important question for all of us citizens, and you in the government have pushed us into this situation. What do you do to make sure this doesn't happen again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u9	Mr President! Of course, the Ministry has taken this seriously, and I hope it will also be seen in the extensive audits that are currently taking place. These audits, too, do not indicate that this is a legal problem, but rather a question of how the law has been implemented. It is now a question of how to improve this point and also of ensuring that the level of expertise in the agencies is at which to rely on implementation. It is not just about Trafi, it is about our entire administration being more and more in electronic form and it has been so in the past. All in all, however, citizens and businesses need electronic services, and it is our job to ensure that they are available and possible, but also that they are secure. In this respect, we are also very committed to doing the work related to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u10	Mr President! The damage has happened, and by chewing it off, that's the only thing that's gonna change. But given the fact that Trafi has been one of the sources of information that exposes a person's place of residence... For example, if a criminal has wanted to find out, it has been enough to put Trafii’s data on the basis of the registration number, and so has the municipality of residence of the victim of the crime. For example, my place of residence Nikkila is not now such a big area that there is no such potential criminal who wants to threaten another's life or health, would find out where he lives. Now that you are doing this cleaning piece by piece, do you instruct Trafi so that, after a request for security, these personal data should no longer be given to anyone so that they can find their place of residence?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u11	Mr President! As far as Trafi is concerned, we are currently going through the systems that process personal data and residence data. With regard to driving licence legislation and driving licence data, we are trying to see that this information is not cross-accessible and that the amount of information available there can also be reduced. Nevertheless, from the point of view of road safety, it is important to have access and it has always been possible to know whether a road user has a right to drive, and this right to drive must continue to exist for citizens. What is really at issue here is how to get to this information and how it is possible in the current system that this information is incorrectly combined. Of course, this system is viewed through, and it is also sought to ensure that it is brought to a level that is reliable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u12	Mr. Speaker! This case is an unfortunate example of the fact that when we plan the good digitisation projects that are needed in our own right, there may be side effects that we will not think about until something happens that will draw our attention to us, and I hope that we will all learn a lesson from this. In this particular case, it may also have been a problem that, although Trafi reacted quickly, it took quite a long time to close the service after the news, and even days later it was reportedly accessed. I would like the government to be able to find out that such cases will not happen in the future with regard to other electronic services, and perhaps as part of the audits you will do so. I would like to ask the government whether this gives cause to look at other digitalization projects in Finland from information security and individual protection aspects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u13	Mr President! In this context, as Trafi's systems are now audited from a security perspective, it is also known that: The Finnish Communications Agency has extensively reviewed and also audited state administration systems in general. In this context, it is certainly good to see that what is learned in relation to Trafi can also be used in the future. The systems are very similar and it is also good to assess how information security is achieved on a wider scale. Nevertheless, I would like to continue to say that FICORA has stated that Trafi's systems are in a more secure condition than average, but they are still not entirely satisfactory. However, we can also see from this experience of Trafi how essential it is for citizens and businesses to have access to electronic systems and services and how dependent society is on them. That is also why it is extremely important that we now work carefully on these, so that one service after another
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u14	Mr President! Now that the Minister has just said that Trafi's systems were at a better level than other state systems, I am at least surprised whether this should inspire more confidence after such a disaster or less confidence. It is a serious matter for the initial audit to leave such security gaps in the system, but it is particularly serious that maintenance does not even have the skills to shut down parts of the system when problems are detected. First it takes days for the systems to be shut down at all, then one language version is closed, the others are left open, and then, when nothing else is done, the whole system is closed for days. Please do not argue — this is not possible anywhere but in public sector systems. In real working life, such a system supplier would be a former system supplier. Can other state information systems really be at this level in terms of their maintenance? What does the Minister say: If shortcomings are detected, what will be done?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u15	Mr President! I hope it will lead to a critical review of systems and system contracts, related maintenance contracts and service contracts. It is quite clear that society is highly dependent not only on the reliability of the systems but also on the reliability of the systems, and so it is important that we are able to ensure that citizens continue to have good confidence in the use of the services. This work is currently being carried out in relation to Trafi, and hopefully it will also lead to conclusions and lessons that will be available to the wider public administration in the future. FICORA is working on this and is also using external evaluators to obtain as comprehensive an audit as possible, a related report and related lessons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u16	Mr President! I would like to complete Mr Berner's reply here, perhaps in that, when this matter of Trafi is properly clarified, it is, first of all, extremely important, but then I am absolutely convinced that the whole public administration will also do this because of what they are doing, if they have not previously woken up, and examine their own knowledge of what the citizens in general are. I think it is important to bear in mind that, even if it is not necessarily illegal — as it obviously has not been illegal here, that there is a wide range of this information — we must use the question of appropriateness to consider what information about people is there in public registers. I'll take the IRS, for example. Our tax information, the tax information of all Finns, is public, but the Tax Administration does not put it out of everyone's data, but it is available when asked. And this, what's happened here — I'm sure,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u17	Mr President! Information security for citizens and individuals, data protection is an extremely important issue and must be respected by all means. Efforts have been made to increase transparency and access to information, and these have been continuously increased in recent years. Now Trafi has, in a way, risen to the beak of a stick in this matter. Thank you, Minister for Transport, for reacting quickly and taking care of this matter. There is a lot of information about different sources of information, other services, and e-services are available in many areas. In fact, I would like to turn this over to the honourable Minister of Justice: how have you reacted and reacted to this situation, and how do you see the security of the individual and the citizen in these public services?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u18	Mr President! A new data protection regulation has just entered into force at European level, which applies to all countries. We no longer need to implement any domestic national legislation, but strict data protection regulation applies to all countries. If you look at the big picture of privacy and data protection: very free hands in Asia, very free hands in the USA, but Europe has gone into strict data protection regulation. And in Finland, too, all laws must be mirrored through data protection regulation. In the final analysis, each ministry is responsible for ensuring that its own legal projects implement this one of the most stringent data protection regulations worldwide. In fact, in Finland the Constitutional Committee has even tightened the Finnish data protection regulation compared to European data protection regulation. In other words, if only all legal projects comply with these, there is strict data protection regulation in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u19	Mr President! The Ministry of Transport and Communications has announced that it will deal with this mess in Trafi, these problems with Trafi's services, in cooperation with FICORA and the Security Commissioner. For the time being, Trafi’s electronic services remain closed, which has already made it more difficult to sell cars. In a few weeks' time, at the turn of the year, when Trafi and The Finnish Communications Agency will merge into a new Transport and Communications Agency. Is this going to be the end of the day when the new agency will end up looking into its own actions? I ask the Minister: do you see any problem of independence in this investigation? And how do you intend to ensure the credibility of the investigation in order to restore public confidence in the e-services provided by Trafi and our authority anyway?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u20	Mr President! Yes, we have tried to ensure that we get the most credible, neutral analysis and audit of these services. Therefore, FICORA has been authorised to use external actors to help with this study. This has also been done, and a company called Nixu is doing this audit alongside FICORA, in order to obtain precisely credible and also as transparent reporting and auditing as possible, which is not just internal to the administrative sector. In addition to this, it is also extremely important to remember that the current service has been available in the past. It has been available in such a way that, as an individual data donation, it may have been asked by telephone or e-mail. Now it can be viewed online. This service is not in itself required by the law but is permitted by the law if the authority wishes to do so. And from this point of view, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u21	Next question, Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u22	Mr President! The government has failed to keep our citizens safe. The series of sexual crimes committed by immigrants in Oulu is absolutely shocking. Every sexual crime is too much, whether it is a parent Finn or an immigrant — I stress: a parent Finn or an immigrant. However, immigration from certain areas is clearly highlighted in the statistics on sexual offences right now. The Finns of Peru have put forward the detention of those who have received a negative asylum decision, a number of blackmails and rapid returns on asylum conditions. These measures could be specific preventive measures. Do you know, the government, how Finnish mothers instruct their daughters? They say that when you hide your long hair, no one can see that you're a girl. President Sauli Niinistö commented on the case of Oulu as follows: ‘We must show firmness. We are shocked by these acts with their perfect inhumanity.” What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u23	Mr President! At the beginning of the year, a change in law proposed by the government will come into force which will allow for a faster expulsion and cancellation of the residence permit if you commit serious crimes, as would the allegations made here about suspects. On the Ministry of Justice's side, we have a proposal to tighten the penalty scale, which I am sure the Minister of Justice will be able to explain in more detail, here in Parliament at the moment, specifically with regard to these serious crimes against children, and we have a number of measures to address this in addition. Yesterday, for example, in the referral debate, a good debate was held here on the prevention of abuse of re-applications. At the same time, as Mr Juvonen also said very clearly and again, ‘student Finns or other pools’,the fundamental values of society for all. That is why it is also important to cooperate with the authorities, the school police, the fight against online abuse, to which several representatives have drawn attention here too, and to strengthen them — but two thirds of sexual offences last year were also committed by the Finns. That does not mean that foreigners should not be subjected to special measures, but the basic thing is that all harassment should stop, and it should be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u24	I hesitated if the Minister of Justice also wanted to answer. — Yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u25	Thank you, Speaker! The country must live by the laws and customs of the country — the end. It has no exceptions, whether nationality or not, whether it is a residence permit or not. Finland must respect the law, the country's value base, and the Criminal Code has in fact defined the most sacred values. In fact, the lack of physical integrity of another person in a sexual offence is one of the most outrageous acts. This is why, regardless of such individual cases, the government has already launched law-making projects to tighten the penalties for sexual offences. In fact, the bill has already been submitted to Parliament, and it is now before the committees. In serious sexual crimes against children, the penalties will become more severe. But with the Criminal Code alone, these matters cannot be dealt with. More detailed control is needed in advance, education, including well-managed immigration and control,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u26	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u27	Mr President! Thank you for these answers. It is time to act instead of shushing and silently, for our women, our children and all Finns, the whole people, are demanding real deeds. According to a study by the Legal Institute, from 2010 to 2011, those from North Africa and the Middle East were up to 17 times overrepresented in the statistics on rape offences. I have tabled a discussion initiative on sexual crime last week and I ask you, government: do you know that and are you bringing this debate here to Parliament? Finns are calling for an open debate, and this is not enough to talk about it here, one hour or this little moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u28	Now the hands of both ministers are up. Why don't we start with Secretary Häkkänen this time?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u29	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Juvonen, for your initiative. In fact, sexual offences have been discussed for quite a long time. They have been discussed for years, but now this government has also taken action. Legislative proposals are on the way, and I hope that the Finns also support those that have been made by the government. In other words, if you want to do something concrete, you can accept those legislative proposals in this Parliament even before the elections. They are concrete blackmails, but in the same breath I say that more measures will certainly have to be taken in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u30	Mr President! Similarly, I welcome this debate in a constructive, factual manner. There's been a problem. It is quite true that we have had this situation for a long time, as Mr Juvonen pointed out. This is not the phenomenon of this week, month or even this reign, but the phenomenon of the whole decade that, unfortunately, sexual crimes of foreign origin have been over-represented, not to a dominant extent, but must be tackled. And yes, this debate was last held yesterday as such when we went through the government's proposal on the possibility of de-citizenisation in this Chamber in the case of terrorist offences, when there was a wider debate. This point is one where I also call for a broader debate on whether we could also interpret clear questions of physical integrity as an attack on the fundamental values of society, which would then also allow for tougher action even if citizenship had already been granted. But we are happy to have a debate in all the forms that Parliament wants to bring to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u31	And I'm sure there's a question in the same theme, Mr. Päivi Räsänen's question. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u32	Mr President! The events in Oulu have indeed shocked Finns, as even aggravated rapes have targeted children and are suspected of being the perpetrators of persons who have themselves come to Finland for protection. Indeed, yesterday we were discussing a government proposal here that would allow for the loss of citizenship of the perpetrators of serious crimes if the maximum penalty for the offence was at least eight years. These crimes include, for example, treason, treason or crimes committed with terrorist intent. However, it would be in the public sense that, in the case of serious sexual offences, especially against children, it would also be possible to lose Finnish citizenship. This is not in this government proposal, and I ask you, Minister Mykkänen, and do you support the extension of this loss of citizenship in view of the agreements binding on Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u33	Mr President! Personally, my sense of justice also holds in mind that these attacks on the fundamental value of society, which clearly violate physical integrity or, for example, sexual equality, when they are gross, would also be in use. As Mr Räsänen himself went through very well yesterday in this Chamber, it is precisely this international legal system and a very high threshold for the abolition of citizenship, which is now being extended to terrorist offences, to extreme perpetrators of such crimes, that is a challenging field in which this is certainly to be assessed. I think it is also necessary to have this debate, to give a clear signal that if you commit serious sexual crimes in Finland, you will have to leave here — if you have a residence permit, it is still possible to remove it, and there will be more medicines in it at the turn of the year, but even if you have citizenship, you must be able to tackle it. Such practices are not acceptable in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u35	Mr President! In the state of justice, people are not regarded as criminals on the basis of nationality or residence status. Instead, people who are known to be guilty of serious sexual violence should be considered a criminal. We know that perhaps about 10% of rapes come to the attention of the authorities. Only some of these end up in court, i.e. considering whether this is a sufficiently strong evidence of rape. The purpose of the Criminal Code is to protect citizens against serious sexual violence, and in the light of these figures, Finland is severely underachieved. Does the government realize that hardening of punishments will be of no help if people are not even punished by the courts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u36	Minister Mykkänen. That's enough for another minister to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u37	Mr President! I feel that this is related specifically to the activities of the police and the authorities in this very important area of intimate and sexual crime, where unfortunately, just as Mr Kontula said, there is a lot of sexual crime, other harassment, domestic violence that never comes up, especially within Finland, and even if it does, it is often the case that the reports of domestic violence do not come forward and that they do not get to the point of being prosecuted. After all, this has been the subject of a general charge years ago, including domestic violence in its milder form, but we are also working on it at the Ministry of the Interior in the performance agreement for next year, that we should pay even more attention to this. It also requires cooperation between the authorities, such as the exchange of information between child protection and social workers. The anchor teams that sit in the same room between different authorities are a cure for it, but then we must also be able to do it properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u38	Mr President! These crimes in my hometown of Oulu, my native part of Tuira, are deeply shocking, reprehensible crimes, and they must be strongly condemned, not shushed, but it must be clearly stated that the perpetrators are due to trial, they are to be punished, they are to be sentenced. We condemn these acts. President Rinne has clearly and firmly condemned these acts. That's not two things we're talking about. However, it must also be said equally clearly that crime is a crime, regardless of the perpetrator, and the political exploitation of these cases is almost equally reprehensible. What we need to talk about is sexual crime law, and we need to ask whether it corresponds to the morals of the people and is consistent with our sense of justice. Minister, there is no answer. Sexual offences legislation must be tightened throughout. Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code must be rewritten in such a way as to reflect our sense of justice. Criminal convictions must be intensified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u41	Mr President! While individual cases in the columns of magazines are stirring up, the rule of law must remember that this is a police investigation. In this Chamber, we do not distribute judgments, but the judiciary distributes judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u46	Mr President! Any form of violence, whether sexual or not, is wrong. There has been talk here today of sexual crimes committed by foreigners and people living in Finland and of violence against close relationships. It's all about attitudes. The UN organisation Promundo conducted a comprehensive survey of gender equality attitudes in the Arab countries. Its results were shocking. Values, attitudes, and customs go with people. I would like to ask the Government: how do we prevent people from going to Finland with asylum seekers or others with attitudes that subjugate Finnish equality and women?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u48	Mr President! Firstly, it is important to find a solution in this area in which we move towards a system of asylum seeking, which does not unduly favour young men coming across the border alone. It is a wider European solution. But here are the inevitable places for mild phenomena. Secondly, the reception centres are, of course, already doing a lot of educational work, not least on gender equality. We have last agreed in the executive group of the Ministry of the Interior yesterday that this will now be sharpened so that, when we also have a change in foreign law that facilitates expulsion, it will be made very clear that if you commit serious sexual offences, then even after you have obtained a residence permit, you will be faced with expulsion. This is how we aim to push forward the clear passage of the Finnish value base that there is no other way in this country. Of course, in all societies sexual crime is in itself prohibited, and this is true of other populations. You have to remember it all the time. But special measures are also needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u49	Mr President! All of us unanimously condemn these acts. These are absolutely shocking and need to be addressed. Mr Häkkänen, you spoke about sanctions and control, and it is clear that we need more of both of them. I am therefore delighted that, for example, the legislation on rape has been systematically tightened since the time of Minister of Justice Tuija Brax. But now that we are dealing with the integration law in committee, it has become very clear that immigrants, coming to Finland, need training in our values and attitudes right after arrival. Now they are taught Finnish very quickly, but many other things are not taught. Minister Mykkänen, how do you intend to promote the very basis of values here in Finland, so that immigrants have a clear understanding of sexual matters as well as, for example, everyman's rights and so on, so that we can have this common basis of values and attitudes in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u50	Mr President! As I am responsible for integration, I will tell you what we have done. We have completely reformed integration policy at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy since 2015, thus virtually completely new. We're on a long road, but we're on a good road. We have identified these problems, and one problem is precisely that this integration, language learning takes far too long. That is why, together with the Ministry of Education and Culture, we have worked together to make the paths shorter, not just to teach the language, but to teach through work how to be human here. It comes, as it were, not just by sitting in a classroom but by communicating with people. This is the direction we want to take, but it is also the responsibility of the integrationist themselves to do things. This is two-way work, this integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u51	The last supplementary question, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u52	Mr President! Indeed, the government is preparing, as was heard, a law that would remove Finnish citizenship from those dual citizens who have committed serious crimes. Yesterday, when this was indeed the case in the referral debate in this Chamber, it was unclear and unlikely whether rape would be such a serious and dangerous act of national interest that it would lead to the abolition of Finnish citizenship from dual citizens. In Africa and the Middle East, systematic mass rapes have been used as a means of warfare and have been targeted at women and also children of a different ethnic or religious background. In the light of this information, Minister Mykkänen: are rapes targeted at Finnish girls from immigrant backgrounds a threat to national security, and should any nationality or other residence permit be withdrawn from them?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u53	Mr President! First of all, Mr Eerola referred to the residence permit at the end of the year, and in this regard a change of law, which is actually being introduced at the turn of the year by a government proposal, will make it easier and more possible to abolish and expel a residence permit in the event of serious crimes. On the issue of denationalisation, as I have already said, I am encouraging a debate on values and also a legal debate. This government proposal, which has now been brought to Parliament yesterday in a referral debate, is based on responding to terrorist offences and is then more justified from the point of view of international law, national vital interests and national security. But, as I said, my own sense of justice would be capable of being able to attack fundamental national values in a way that attacks people's integrity in a gross way, which could also be tackled in such a way that the dual citizen no longer has the right to Finnish citizenship, under certain conditions, which is also the case in this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u54	A little less time will now be reserved for the following questions than for those that have just been asked. And the next question is for Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u55	Mr President! Christmas is fast approaching, but the Christmas spirit is far away when you read recent sad news about the growth of bread lines and the poverty of low-income pensioners. What kind of Christmas gift has this government given to Finnish low incomes? Yesterday you decided again to cut the basic security of Finns and not to make index increases in basic security benefits. During the Government term, you have cut basic daily allowance by EUR 24, national pension by EUR 22 and housing allowance by EUR 23. You took almost a hundred bucks out of the student money. Disability benefits, breast and family allowances have also been reduced. Minister Mattila, this money is not small for low-income Finns. How can you justify continuing the cutbacks to make a living?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u56	Mr President! This index freeze is certainly one of the painful decisions taken by the government in the negotiations on the Government Programme and in accordance with the spending limits decision to balance public finances. At the same time, I would also like to point out that every budget debate has been able to take specific measures for the low-income. It has also been possible to increase the minimum guaranteed pensions and the minimum daily allowances, the Yle-tax has been abolished from low incomes, and the reduction in the pharmaceutical ceiling, for example. As far as Christmas is concerned, I think that all of us now have a good opportunity to welcome the prospect of a good Christmas and the spirit of Christmas and at the same time remember our loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u57	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u58	Mr President! After all, the economic situation has improved considerably since the government programme was registered. Nevertheless, the government continues to cut low incomes and has not been prepared to correct its line in this regard. Despite the fact that even the Prime Minister in public has hinted that there may have been too much cut. Another current example of how the government is not prepared to correct its policy despite failures is the active model on which we received recent information this morning. Once again, they show how miserable this law has failed. It has cut the basic security of older unemployed people in particular. The number of people receiving reduced benefits has increased and has not succeeded in its task. Moreover, it has not activated the situation of the long-term unemployed or the unemployed with reduced working capacity in particular. The interaction with the unemployed is high when index freezes are first cut off from unemployment security and are followed by this active model, which cuts by almost 5%. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u60	Mr President! Yes, I have admitted that there are defects in the active model, and those defects are being repaired. The last thing I have signed today is a regulation that brings six months of study with unemployment benefit into a single active activity. I think that is a good thing and this Parliament deserves praise because it was dealt with quickly here. In addition to this, there is a regulation on the part of the STM on these complementary actions, for which Mr Mattila is responsible, and also on the list of the active measures to be taken in order to clearly inform the unemployed of what action is in line with the active model. These are the measures that will be taken. I would also like to remind you that this is going back to tripartite preparation, and then we will probably be much wiser.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u61	Mr President! The government's active model leaves the most vulnerable young people behind. The Government wants to drive down workshops in Finland. Some 20,000 young people work in workshops who need support in everyday matters, life management and education, and they need training for working life. The workshops have done an impressive job. After the workshop period, about 80 per cent of young people move either to education or to work. Now you are commenting this morning on Yle's morning television and saying that you are not taking responsibility for this, but that the provinces will decide how the workshops will work in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u62	Mr President! I'm glad you asked me this, because now you're putting words in my mouth. The Government is not pushing down the workshop with a growth service reform. No, no, no. [ Intermediate calls on the social democrats]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u63	Next question, Congressman Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u64	Mr President! Finland has been classified as the most attractive mining site in the world because of our ore resources and our mining legislation. With a spoon of gold, we hand the wealth of our soil to foreign mining companies. Our legislation is based on the czaric principle in which the discoverer is allowed to keep. We lack a mining tax, proper royalties and compensation for the disadvantages of mining sites. The voice of local residents is not loud enough. Furthermore, municipalities do not have an unambiguous right to veto mining activities, even if it is detrimental to other livelihoods or habitats. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has also been concerned about this. Even in nature reserves, exploration of ore is allowed, and in the worst case scenario, environmental damage is borne by society. Mr President! I ask the minister in question when it is very difficult for Finns to understand how all this is possible: are you prepared to tighten up and improve our mining legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u65	Mr President! Thank you to the Green Group for the question. This is therefore based on the Mining Act, which came in 2011, which you were preparing in the government at the time. [Department : Ohhh! ] What can be done, for example, with regard to the mining tax: of course it is possible. We can have a conversation, we can sort it out. At the moment, we have a system that brings royalty. The landowner has royalty and property tax rights, and jobs and so forth, which will then come with the mine.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u66	I will give Mr Halmemenpää a supplementary question on this question, the Minister's answer to it, and then no more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u67	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the mining law was actually reformed, tightened, but not enough. In May this year, despite opposition from the Greens and Left Alliance, Parliament approved CETA, a trade and investment agreement between Europe and Canada. Concerns about the need to reform the Mining Act only grew. When dealing with CETA, Parliament — Parliament — required the Government to initiate a reform of the Mining Act so that we have the right to further improve our legislation without any threat of liability to foreign mining companies. The report by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy did not satisfy Parliament, but this week the Committee on Foreign Affairs again called on the Government to continue its efforts to reform the Mining Act. Nevertheless, it seems that the government is acting against the tightening and improvement of the mining law and is even seeking to do the opposite. I'm asking you what action the government is taking.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u68	Mr President! In fact, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fully agreed with the opinion of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy on CETA and we have nothing that would conflict with CETA if it applies equally to all operators. Nothing like that will stop it. Now, with all due respect, Mr President, it seems to me that, a year ago, you were completely behind these laws, now you are against them, that there is going to be an election.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u69	Next question, Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u70	Mr President, värderade talman! Although the general income level has risen, at the same time poverty among families with children has increased, and child poverty is the most common among single-parent families. About one in five single - parent families have problems with their daily finances. By far the majority of single - parent families bear the responsibility of the mother of the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u71	Mr President! First of all, with regard to the child allowance system, which is my responsibility, the government has raised the separate part of single parents which is included in the child benefit. This is particularly because, as the questioner has rightly recognised, we know that special risks of poverty in families with children are situations in which only one parent cares for the household, or situations in which there are very many children in the family. In the case of one-parent families, we have also wanted to clarify situations, with a joint explanation with the Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, where the child has two homes, one parent, and how, for example, we could better share family benefits in these situations or, for example, in the housing allowance system, take into account the daily lives of the child's two homes. A family of one parent doesn't always mean a child doesn't have two parents in his day-to-day life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u72	Next question, Mr. Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u73	Mr President! For a moment in the school world, in vocational schools and in high school. There has been news this week that there may have been a slight increase in stress in that upper secondary school, perhaps a slight impact of the admission test reform. The hours they work there are quite large. At the same time, there are some worrying messages from the professional side that school weeks are not always complete. In some cases, it's only Tuesday to Thursday. For the city centre, perhaps the most important principle on the education and training front is that everyone would have equal opportunities regardless of their education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u74	Mr President! As the chairman of the Committee on Education is well aware, the new law on upper secondary education, which is laid down in this Chamber by a large majority, will bring more personal guidance to the upper secondary school and so will special education and thus support the upper secondary school. In addition, there are a number of other elements that I believe will have an impact on high school students’ increased fatigue and stress, including more fluent student selection and, for example, giving up the re-restrictions of matriculation examination and so on. On the vocational education and training side, a large new set of legislation on vocational education and training is now being implemented in various parts of Finland, at the heart of which are more personal study paths where adequate support is being built. The right of students to education, study guidance and adequate support is very strongly written in the legislation there. Now the challenge is how this whole thing works.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u75	Next question, Mr. Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u76	Mr President! Finland is a large country, and in our large country, driving in a country with long distances is a necessity, a car is a means of necessity, not a luxury product. The Transport Group of Experts on Climate Policy published its own report and has spoken to the people. There are interesting things, ways of solving climate policy. And the blue ones, naturally, as the responsible party, want to be there to solve this job. But there are challenges involved. The current policy leads to a low-income family with large children being a contributor to this current model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u79	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Jalos for his very timely question. It is clear that there are very different areas in Finland, which is why there must also be alternatives to introducing a reduction in emissions from transport. Renewable fuels such as renewable diesel and biogas are, for example, possible ways that can be very effective, especially locally, even when the vehicle is its own car. It is not necessary to abandon one's own car, even though it is actively involved and wants to participate in the reduction of emissions. Emissions reductions in transport must also take into account those on low incomes, and therefore a broader tax reform is needed, in which incentives and compensation opportunities can also be introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u80	Next and, at the same time, last question, Mr Raassina.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u81	Mr President! In Finland, the vaccination coverage of children remains at a relatively high level, but there are significant regional differences in coverage. If vaccination coverage is too low in some areas, adequate herd protection will not be achieved. For example, the coverage of an MPR vaccine that protects against measles, rubella and mumps should be more than 95%, but in some areas it is less than 75%. In Finland, vaccinations have been voluntary. However, it is perverse if a parent’s vaccine negativeness could endanger his or her own child and other people’s health. This is particularly significant in the case of generally dangerous and susceptible diseases, such as measles. It is vital to invest in promoting the pro-vaccination and ensuring the coverage of the vaccine. The national vaccination programme is a proven effective and safe way of preventing many harmful infectious diseases. Mr President! The role of clinics in the provision of vaccines and as a source of information is of paramount importance. Non-vaccination is not just a decision on one’s own child and family.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u82	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the hospitals of Kokkola and Vaasa, the health centre of Pietarsaari and the authorities of the municipality of Luoto for the excellent work done in connection with the latest case of measles in Finland. In the light of all the information currently available, those professionals have been able to prevent the outbreak of measles in Finland, with good education, contact and active measures. It is a very fine demonstration of the functionality of Finnish social services. Your question is topical and important, and I am delighted that several parliamentary groups and parliamentarians have wished to comment on it. Professionals have indicated that the necessity is not automatically a guarantee of better vaccine coverage. There is no direct evidence of this in countries where non-vaccination would have been sanctioned. However, since this issue is a very important part of the work to promote well-being and health, I have set up a joint working group between the Ministry and the National Institute for Health and Welfare to consider,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u83	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 24/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u84	President! I propose that Article 6 be read as follows: receives the form of objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u85	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u86	Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u87	President! I propose that Article 10 is replaced by the receives the form of objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u88	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u89	Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u90	Mr President! I propose that Article 12: receives the form of objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u91	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u92	Mr President! I propose that Article 12: receives a wording in accordance with the amendment proposed by the KD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u93	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u94	Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1. With the support of Mr Sari Essayah, Mr Östman has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u95	First, we will vote against Mr Peter Östman's proposal and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u96	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 25/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u97	Mr President! I propose that Article 3 is adopted in accordance with protest 1 by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u98	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u99	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Kristina Salonen, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u100	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 10/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u101	Mr President! I would like to propose that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u102	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u103	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Heli Järvinen, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u104	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 3 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order I am considering, I will give you answers for 1 or 2 minutes. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u105	Mr President! This is the first report on information policy and artificial intelligence. The report approaches the subject in a wide range of ways through ethics, security, economy and social impacts. The review covers the views of the citizen, the public administration and the private sector. The report and the social debate on it are the beginning of a new policy area, information policy. In time, J. V. Mr. Snellman felt that information should be used for the country's benefit. I will continue from this point of view that information should now be used for the sake of well-being, security and competitiveness. The vision of information policy is that in Finland, information and technology serve people in a safe and ethically sustainable way. What do we mean by information policy? Information policy is a commonly agreed set of principles and policies on the production, acquisition, movement, opening, sharing, use, maintenance and storage of information. Information policy will clarify the policies and principles that will strengthen a society that is sustainable and knowledgeable from the point of view of citizens' well-being, security, economic, social, cultural and environmental aspects. Information policy measures aim to encourage Finns to adopt, apply and exploit technologies to improve quality of life, facilitate access to and use of services, and enhance competitiveness and value added. Knowledge, inclusion and trust are the keys to the utilisation of artificial intelligence and knowledge. The report supports Prime Minister Sipilä's Government's aim to make Finland the leading country in the application of AI and information policy. Artificial intelligence needs high-quality information in order to rely on its solutions. Finland is an international pioneer in the focus of ethical information policy. Information policy also helps to build an image of Finland as an attractive environment for the information economy. The report's guidelines highlight, among other things, the strengthening of citizens' rights in the management and exploitation of their own data. The report also takes a position on robots and artificial intelligence systems, which should be built to promote well-being, respect the individual's autonomy, the fundamental rights of individuals and the requirements of justice, and avoid suffering. Although artificial intelligence can still be described as support intelligence, it opens up entirely new possibilities for combining and analysing information. We can make a whole new discovery of large data masses. This is a great opportunity, but at the same time it involves significant risks, as we all know. In Finland, decisions on the use of information and the utilisation of artificial intelligence should be assessed on the basis of strong ethical principles emerging from the value base in both the private and public sectors. Due to the speed of development, we cannot lay down unambiguous ethical rules, but we must have an ethical framework which also develops and becomes stronger when we get practical information about different situations. The report will form a position in Finland on the basis of which Finland will also seek to influence the international operating environment, commitments and regulation of the use of information. Together with other EU countries, Finland has the opportunity to build competitiveness through an information policy and artificial intelligence strategy based on strong ethical principles. The preparation of the report has sought as open and broad cooperation as possible. The report has been prepared by a wide network of experts of around 200 people from different areas of society. The opinions were discussed in cooperation with eight ministries. My expectation is that the report will produce a good debate on the future of information and artificial intelligence in Finland here in Parliament and in society at large. After the report, the work on information policy will continue by making a road map of concrete measures to implement the information policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u106	Mr President! The report in the referral debate is a concrete step towards how we deal with data: how we acquire, share, use and store information both in Finland and in cooperation with other countries. The use of knowledge, technology and artificial intelligence has a strong impact on society, services, corporate earnings models and on us people. It is therefore welcome that Finland is already taking the lead as an international leader. A particularly valuable aspect of the report is the use of information and the use of artificial intelligence above ethical questions. The human orientation highlighted in the report is hopefully also a signal to our partner countries. The use of technology and its applications are tools. Solutions made by a machine and the use of data must always remain the responsibility of man. Mr President! The central information society policy published a couple of weeks ago already states in the title that digital belongs to everyone. The information society must be accessible to all regardless of age, social status or place of residence. Already so far, we have established our own rights to information about us. This is a self-data-based approach, in which the management and processing of personal data is taken from organisational focus to human focus. In central thinking, the right to own data is the human rights of the digital age. At best, artificial intelligence and data give us great opportunities to improve our own life management, quality of life, health and well-being. Mr President! The transparency, portability and compatibility of data affect the lives of all of us. This means an increase in each of us’s responsibilities. It is essential that all information policy capabilities are taken care of — including those of us who may not or do not want to be on the wave of technological solutions all the time. Special attention and options are needed if their own capabilities are not optimal. Ethically used artificial intelligence robotics and the platform economy create stone bases for diverse cross-border business activities. At best, these opportunities are also an excellent substitute for Finland’s geographical location here in the European corner. However, it must be possible to decide on common rules at both national and international level. Mr President! Only a strong information policy will enable us to have strong decision-makers, to make correct and timely decisions based on collected and analysed data. It is not about whether we want an information policy, but about how we want to take control of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u107	Mr President! A lot of us are guided by artificial intelligence every day, and we don't even notice it. Artificial intelligence will be present when we search Google for information. In the future, artificial intelligence can drive a car for us. As a result of rapid change and new inventions, the Government's information policy report is a very important opening. We're dependent on new technology. Right now is the last time to define the principles by which the information collected about us can be used. Is it being used against us or against us? Are we getting fake news or information? Finland has exceptional strengths and we must be a pioneer. A successful information policy can have enormous economic value. However, artificial intelligence and the potential for digitalisation must be used in a sustainable and ethical way. Mr President! Artificial intelligence will come even if Finland does not have an information policy. In a couple of years, no one will blink on their phone and talk to it. For artificial intelligence and digitalisation to serve people’s well-being and success, trust-building rules are needed. In addition to threats, artificial intelligence also offers enormous opportunities. In the future, for example with regard to the social security system, artificial intelligence will enable benefits to be paid in real time and automatically according to changing life situations. Who controls knowledge, controls the future — the new era’s slogan tells us that information policy is part of the new era’s security policy. Every Finn must master the knowledge-reading skills. The ability to operate in a new era requires the development of knowledge, inclusion and trust. These skills need to be developed at a young age. The best guarantee for the development of skills for children and young people is to invest in early childhood education and at the beginning of the school path. No Finnish youth can leave comprehensive school without sufficient basic skills. If you can't read well, you can't read critically either. The need for new learning does not end with the end of school. Continuous learning and updating skills must be made a new standard for working life. Mr President! Although technology develops, man remains the same with his joys and sorrows. In the future, we will continue to bark at poorly functioning systems and haste at work. However, we can move routine work to machines and focus on where we are strong and what is needed for humanity, ethics and empathy, creating new ideas, social relations and making mistakes. Artificial intelligence and the information economy are good men and only tools. I would like to thank the government for its important groundwork. Artificial intelligence and digitalisation are already part of our world. We need an information policy across administrative boundaries for its development and guidance. This report provides the necessary starting points for further work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u108	Mr President! Finland and the world live in the midst of a great and rapid change. Technological development and artificial intelligence cut through society and change both the banking and insurance sectors and trade. There is also an increase in the amount of information, its management and utilisation. The Medical Association explained the views of health professionals regarding AI. The majority felt that artificial intelligence was a concept and knew examples of its use in terveys management. The cost and lack of knowledge were seen as an obstacle to the exploitation of artificial intelligence, and it was feared that it would cause misdiagnoses. In the future, however, AI is expected to bring relief to treatment decisions, speed up treatment processes, save healthcare professionals from routine work and free up time to meet the patient. Artificial intelligence was not perceived as threatening the employment of healthcare professionals in the coming years, but it was seen as bringing changes in the content and job descriptions of the work. In the world of artificial intelligence, new jobs and the platform economy, we must ensure that workers' rights are not undermined. Finland must ensure the digital competence of every citizen. It skills are as important in today's Finland as writing and reading skills in time. It is estimated that one million Finns are equipped with incomplete digital skills. We need to invest in a major digital knowledge-raising campaign and ensure that support is available. Artificial intelligence is a good man, but a bad host. As artificial intelligence develops, we must always keep a person at the centre. Services must be customer-oriented and user-friendly enough. Artificial intelligence is not an absolute value; it must be used to improve people’s lives, everyday life and well-being. A.I. can be described as a support intelligence. The responsibility for the decisions of machine intelligence must remain with man. We humans do not survive machines by being more machines, but by being more people. In the report, the threat to Finland in the operating environment is recorded as significant cuts in education and research. This cannot continue. In order to get to the forefront of information policy and artificial intelligence, we need to invest in education, research and development. Information policy is based on the fact that information is a commodity and the individual must have more say in the information collected about him and its use. There is a need to discuss what information can do and who ultimately owns it. Facebook and Google already know almost everything about us, but there is also a national collection of data resources with a lot of commercial potential. The right to personal data, such as health information, must always be retained by the person himself. Finally, Mr President, as a small and agile country, Finland has a great opportunity to be at the forefront of information policy and artificial intelligence. As Finland's Presidency of the European Union approaches, Finland has the opportunity to take leadership in this area also within the European Union. The Role of Politicians
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u109	Mr President! We've heard some good speeches. I'm trying to do better. Technology has developed with leaps and bounds over the last decades. The AI is going to revolutionize our lives and our society. This report is based on this current theme, in which information is precisely power and an important basis for business, among other things. Our society is increasingly dependent on information and services built on it. High-quality know-how is growing in importance for the success of our country. We Blues consider it important to invest in Finnish knowledge and technology and related research. We must ensure that our country is attractive in the eyes of the industry's experts and it is worthwhile for companies to stay in Finland or come to Finland. We cannot compete with banknotes and small tax rates, but we can provide security, stability and Nordic prosperity. The role of sustainable development in securing exports and jobs will increase in the future. It also highlights the importance of information management and training. Mr President! The large-scale use of data always brings benefits, but of course also risks. Data leaks are commonplace and people are concerned about what the data collected about them is used for. For example, with the use of a mobile phone, we accumulate and transmit a huge amount of different information. This information often ends up in a handful of international companies that dominate markets around the world. The business of these companies is therefore based on the collection and management of information on closed platforms. We, the Blues, are in favour of the report's line that citizens' rights to the management and use of their own data are still being strengthened. In addition, more information would have to be collected for common use in order not to drain all power to large companies. It is difficult for a small domestic company to compete against their dominant position. The state must therefore promote the survival of Finnish companies in fierce international competition. We have good domestic services that must be made widely available. Mr President! A changing, digitalizing society also raises questions about how we keep everyone involved. How do we ensure that everyone learns to use new services and exploit their opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u110	Mr President! The report now before us on information policy and artificial intelligence is a huge opportunity for our country. It is wonderful that this has finally been taken into account as a genuine sector of activity. This is a sector that needs to be significantly invested in over the term of government. Finland has a long tradition and strong expertise in this field. For example, Aalto University is among the top ten machine learning institutes worldwide. Examples include Business Finland, which has supported over 100 Finnish projects using machine-based artificial intelligence. In order to be able to maintain our position as one of the leading countries in the field, there must be a significant increase in IT and mathematical skills from primary school onwards. True Finns see that in the school world students' talents should be taken into account more forcefully than at present. Mr President! There's a lot of fear about artificial intelligence. However, much of the fears are unfounded, as artificial intelligence is a tool and a tool for many businesses and industry operators as well as citizens. In practice, this means that life is easier in many areas and services are better and more individualised. True, the Finns also see that there are different challenges and these challenges must also be addressed. The greatest challenge is that in many routine tasks a person cannot compete with a machine. In the future, a huge amount of the work that has been done so far as human work is concerned will be carried out by machines. As a result, the Finns of Finland see that lifelong learning must be supported and adult education developed to meet the challenges of the future. Mr President! Artificial intelligence requires large amounts of high-quality data to operate. At the moment, the problem is that the various administrative sectors are silod in their systems and the data quality is poor. Effective reporting by existing systems is somewhat impossible. If we wanted a comprehensive and factual report on the real costs of immigration, for example, this would also require a reform of the systems. In order to make use of artificial intelligence, a whole new kind of thinking and the rebuilding of information systems and databases is needed. It will also require some legislative and administrative changes, which must also take account of anonymity and data protection requirements. All of this costs money, but it is worth investing in, because the project has to be done anyway. So we have to ask whether we are in this first wave or just in the aftermath, when the solutions will cost much more. Mr President! As I said at the outset, this is a real opportunity. You're gonna have to stick to this. This could be our country's new Nokia.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u111	Mr President! The avalanche of artificial intelligence and the triumphal procession have been predicted for a long time. When developments appear inevitable, important questions need to be asked. The information policy report has sought to respond to many of these. On the other hand, Finland’s position is good, and on the other hand it is challenging. Europe as a whole is falling behind China and the United States. On the other hand, Finland also has a lot of expertise that can still be very useful. Our national challenges are twofold: on the one hand, whether we can develop and maintain the necessary high-level knowledge and research, and on the other hand, a variety of ethical issues. Finland’s potential to benefit from the development of future artificial intelligence rests on the high level of expertise that must be found in our country in the future. We know that there is a great need for continuous learning and retraining, for example. Finland cannot afford to save on education and research, but must invest more in them. Even now, despite the skilled and educated population, we have a shortage of experts in certain fields, such as coders. We must also be able to attract experts from abroad. Investments in research and training are also necessary because we will need a wide range of know-how in the various fields of technological transformation. In addition to obvious mathematical, statistical and information technology skills, responding to the development of artificial intelligence and societal changes also requires research and knowledge in history, psychology, educational sciences, languages and society, as well as ethics. This brings us to our second key challenge: the ethics of the development of artificial intelligence and the transformation of society as a whole. In many cases, when talking about the development of artificial intelligence and technology, there is excessive optimism and the risks of development are not always taken into account. A good example is the naive attitude towards, for example, the use of information by citizens, the pooling of information and profiling — the last time, unfortunately, in the Government's report on the future. It is good that the information policy report has now taken into account as a possible threat to the future for Finland's ultra-positive and confident approach to technological development. We must do our best to ensure that technological change is as beneficial and beneficial as possible for Finland and for all mankind. In particular, the challenge that China is facing Finland and Europe is huge, not least because in China, for example, privacy or civil rights are not at all at the same level as we are. Data is used without asking questions. Finland is often regarded as one of the strengths of our national data reserves. While making the most of our potential, we must not start compromising respect for human rights and privacy. The citizen must have the right and the opportunity to decide on the use of his data. Mr President! Transparency of information, extensive but ethical use of artificial intelligence applications and also the protection of important information and infrastructure must be defined as the foundation stones of digital Finland. At the same time, we must also have the courage to ask and assess how these changes shape our society and what we really want: how the benefits of technological revolution are shared, how we organise taxation, what is our relationship with work? These are what the Greens want to discuss.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u112	Mr President! The debate on artificial intelligence is determined by the uncertainty surrounding the definition of artificial intelligence itself. In order not to confuse oatmeals and wals, it is good to remember that any apps and programs are not artificial intelligence. The essential thing for artificial intelligence is autonomy, i.e. that the program functions independently without human guidance and that it is constantly learning to improve its performance. We are constantly hearing that artificial intelligence is going to cost a huge number of jobs. However, researchers are not sure what areas or tasks this transformation will take place. On the other hand, automation and robotisation have already revolutionised our labour market enormously, and this has been happening for decades. We cannot treat artificial intelligence as the famous invisible hand of the market, but we must have a social vision of what artificial intelligence and the transformation of work into it will be. The vision of the Left Alliance seeks a more meaningful life for people, such as shorter working hours, which we want to try during the next parliamentary term. Education is the key word in that if we want to be ready as a society for technological change. Adequate digital skills, basic programming skills and understanding of the impact of modern technology on society should be seen as part of general education. This includes critical media literacy. Mr President! Social media has changed our world more than we've ever thought. Facebook has collected an incomprehensible amount of information from its billions of users and sold it for commercial purposes. Data ownership has become a political issue. Unfortunately, social media has also strengthened the distribution lines resulting from social inequality. The result is that populist, human - minded movements have gained significant political power around the world. Our thinking is influenced by channels which were originally intended to give every citizen a voice that unites us. Mr President! It is our job to demand responsibility for and, if necessary, to regulate the operation of high-power technology waste. We must also set a vision for what kind of world we want with artificial intelligence and technology. For the Left Alliance, it means more flexible services, inclusion, more efficient and ecological use of resources, increased leisure time and easier everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u113	President, Talman! Artificiciell intelligences, robotisering, automatisering, digitalisering, blockkedjor, delningseconomist. Många är de begrepp som illustrerar megatrenderna i det vi i riksdagens framtidsutskott har callat för radikala teknologier. teknologier som inte bara är framtid utan de är redan ox nu. En viktig utgångspunkt för vår attityd till dessa trender är att bejaka dem. Förstås kan vi också tycka hjärtligt lla om att artificiell intelligens och dessa applicationer — som vi Levande, tänkande människortrot allt själva har uppfunnit — börjajat tänka och agera som vi människor, fast snabbare, och därför exempelvis stjäl våra jobb. Ett factum är ändå är att dessa technologier finns, och i högsta grad kommer att finnas också i fortsättningen. De kommer också att skapa massor med nya jobb. Alltså ska vi acceptera det ox, inte sticka huvaudet i sanden. Technologiutvecklingen är ändå ingen naturlag som lever sitt eget liv. Fortfarande handlar det om att manniskan nog kan behålla initiativet, styra eller avstyra utvecklingen i önskad riktning och se till att technology förblir dräng och inte blir herre. Men det au betyder att utvecklingen måste hanteras och definieras också med andra mutare än dem för effectivitet, produktivitet, snabbhet och inbesparingar. Den redogörelse som vi i dag diskuterar anlägger det helt nödvändiga rasret på datasamhället, nämligen det etiska. Vad allt vill vi att tekniikan ska göra för oss och vad inte?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u114	Mr President, värderade talman! Automatiseren, robotiseringen, den artificiella intelligenceen, de komer att förändra vårt samhalle. Förändringen kan kallas för den fjärde industriella revolutionen och kommer på flera jätt att vara annorlunda än tidigare.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u115	Thank you, Mr President. That's enough. — — — — First of all, we must highlight the fact that we are dealing with progressive issues when we make the first report on information policy, which brings together this big theme and also the development of artificial intelligence, the transformation of work, technologies, knowledge issues. Under the leadership of Minister Vehviläinen, this preparatory work has been carried out in a broad ministerial composition, and I think it is good, given all the recent events at home and at international level, that this theme will be tackled in a cross-sectoral manner from many perspectives. From the world of my own sector, education and education, I would like to raise a few points. Firstly, the basis and basis for everything is that we citizens have a high level of basic education in order to identify, for example, such attempts to influence, fake news, everything related to it, and to build inclusion in society and widespread trust. The prerequisite is that this level and level of knowledge and education are well taken care of and that such critical multi-literacy is developed. The new concept of multiple literacy, also in line with the new curriculum, includes the development of all kinds of media critical literacy, new digital skills and new content that must be identified on social media worlds, Argorits, and then on the whole, the data flows and all the phenomena at the bottom of artificial intelligence development, and the whole basis and basis of it, thus building on its understanding and extensive multi-literacy through the educational system. Similarly, the government has drawn attention to the fact that both schoolchildren and adults are also being taught in this new digital world. In the PIAAC study on adult competence, we have found that we have up to 600,000 adults with low basic skills — we are talking about the skills of the digital age — and that is why in the last amending budget the government increased funding for the adult digital skills programme, which is being implemented through adult education centres, through low-threshold services, so that all citizens can also have a part to play in digital services. Active support for active citizenship should be provided by providing public information, activities, services accessible to all and, in particular, opportunities for inclusion, experience and participation of disadvantaged people. On top of all this, of course, it is a question not only of building a reliable society but also of our competitiveness and of Finland being among the pioneers. I can say that if one of the indicators is how Parliament will deal with the matter, this report will certainly provide the basis for it to be able to build a pioneering role in this area too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u116	And now for the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u117	Mr President! Taking ethical matters into account in this report is a very good thing, and I thank you very much for that. We should also emphasise this at EU level, because there are different interests in the world as regards the exploitation of artificial intelligence at the moment. Perhaps it can be said that in the USA it is hoped that it will exploit the market, In China, on the other hand, there is an emphasis on public control. In this contradictory situation it is certainly difficult to point out in part that technology, i.e. artificial intelligence, must be made to serve man and man's needs, and in order to remember this, I prefer to use the word support intelligence myself, and fortunately I also found that word in this report. In my opinion, it would be Finland's task to remind with these international arenas that all measures and objectives relating to artificial intelligence should also describe how they affect people's everyday life and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u118	Mr President! The issue is extremely important. We must have a common understanding of how, for example, information can be shared in public administration, how it can be disseminated to public partners, how it can continue to be shared with private partners. I can't help mentioning a healthcare solution in which the Kanta-tieto-arkisto as a archive solution also allows you to manage and view your own information in accordance with the Omakanta principles. A similar use of self-data, coordinated with the international general data protection regulation, makes it possible for us citizens to become self-developers in the field of health and social services. We can be supported in our own survival with our own diseases, and I think that such applications in the future will bring quick profits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u119	Mr President! The fact that Finland and Europe are now taking a human-based and value-based approach to artificial intelligence is, of course, a very Finnish and European solution, but, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said, not everyone else is necessarily doing it. In the USA we go on market terms, in Russia, in China we go very far with a state-led approach. And this is precisely the problem that here it develops differently: if we make such a value-based system here, then necessarily it technology here will not then develop in the same model as in other countries. I believe that this should be taken into account with extreme seriousness, because we need global solutions here, and at the moment I believe that global solutions are very far removed from the development of artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u120	Mr President! Finland must definitely be a pioneer in the application of AI.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u121	Mr President! The pace of technological development in society is staggering, and it provides a basis for many aspects of digitalisation, which enables new forms of enterprise and new ways of doing things — good. For ordinary citizens, this is often reflected in the fact that familiar services are transferred to the network. We must also acknowledge very strongly in this Chamber the digital non-participation. Not everyone can simply use all the digital services required to be a full citizen in society today. It can mean training services, public services or essential private services such as online banking. The progress of digitalisation is therefore very welcome and good in itself, and it can be assumed that, when the young generations that are now growing in the digital world are in retirement age, they will also be able to cope as elderly people in the digital services world. In the meantime, however, we must take care of all those people and their adequate support and services that are not good enough with these digital bulldozers and this digital world. Throw
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u122	Mr President! When you think about telecommunications, it is important to note that Finland is becoming a hub in Asia when it comes to data cables. Mainland Europe is a data cable to Finland, and Finland is planning to use the North-East Passage to design cable for Asia. This is certainly also one of the reasons why China is interested in Finland — one of those reasons. Of course, Finland is a safe country and we have a good infrastructure, but we are not the only country with such a situation. Sweden is an important competitor for us. In Sweden, electricity tax was reduced for certain industries in 2017. Since then, Facebook has expanded its operations, Google has reserved a new site in the city of Avesta and Amazon has announced the construction of three centres. This is a competitive factor for us which must be taken into account. For large centres, the Finnish tax is currently 14 times higher and for smaller centres 45 times higher. In other words, we should have energy taxation on this issue at least at the Swedish level,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u123	Mr President! Good answers in the Chamber. It is easy to agree with them all. Although the report deals with ethical considerations relating to artificial intelligence, the impression remains that the principles are not yet quite clear to us. We must also invest in an expanded understanding of the social impact of artificial intelligence and technology. If, as a general rule, artificial intelligence is used — and in decision-making in particular — the legal protection of citizens and the principles of good governance must always be given priority. This is an absolute requirement of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u124	Mr President! This report is very important and timely. Digitalisation, robotisation, information policy, artificial intelligence — change in all these matters is enormously rapid. The important question is how Finland can take part in development and how Finland can be at the forefront of development in the future. It can also be a big opportunity for us in Finland. At the heart of change must be humanity and also its need for human development. Education, basic skills and the availability of digital services must also be at the heart of the change. In fact, I would also like to go to the very heart of how these digital services are accessible to people and how they can be used. Broadbands, 5G and the security of information and the accuracy of information — I think these are important in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u125	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this debate started only on 17 November, so we still have a little time. The President is going to change here, but we still have the comments that have been made. I would like to point out to you those who made the group statements, namely the representatives of Paloniemi, Vahasalo, Ojala-Niemelä, Jalonen, Torvine, Packalé, Parviainen Olli-Son, Stefan Wallin and Östman. And the Minister has asked and will probably be given the floor, but time will tell.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u126	Mr President! Active digital support services could be gathered under Suomi.fi, for example, for the benefit of all. An alternative service must be provided to those who cannot use the digital service with support either. Digital services in particular should be designed to be easy to use. The third sector and free culture work play an important role in providing digital support. For example, many senior citizens have technological skills and a desire to learn new things. Digital support must be available throughout the country and sufficient resources must be provided for this. I am very pleased that the Committee on Finance's Section for Education and Science also added money to libraries specifically for the needs of digital support and guidance. We have EUR 860000 in that report for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u127	Mr President! Technological developments must not take place at all costs, but we must ensure that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are realised. In Asia, for example, development is being accelerated solely on the basis of economic growth without human rights constraints. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law are part of the value base of our society, which we must not allow to crumble. Now, during the Finnish Presidency of the Council of Europe, we actually have a place of a thousand dollars to strengthen democracy and human rights throughout Europe. We have the opportunity to show leadership and show the European model how to enable technological innovation and at the same time ensure that human rights are realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u128	Madam President! I would have continued what Mrs Torniainen started a little here in the debate, namely how to make Finland the leading country of artificial intelligence and whether we are really involved in this development. Sometimes I feel that everyone is doing something, but there is little to come up with, that there is too wide a spectrum of different actors. The proposal by Minister Lintilä's steering group for the Finnish AI programme is a good thing, but at the same time one can ask whether we are aware of how Finland is out of the business that is already being run by the Chinese Alibaba or the American Amazon. We need a training programme to get Finland caught up in the international business operations of billions of euros in the future. One can say that there is a big business going on, and Finland must be linked to it. Aliba already sells the same amount of goods to Finland as HOK-Elanto, which means that this is a really big scale. We have good processes and infrastructure on which it is good to build.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u129	Mr President! In connection with the digitalisation of society, it is very important to remember information security and then also individual protection. When we really know that there are countries that invest considerable sums in the development of artificial intelligence without taking care of human rights, and accordingly we know that in the future we will be living in a world where the refrigerator can send you a shopping list, that with your exercise habits and health information you should now eat such food today and here is the shopping list, so this involves great security risks. When we are also at the root of the truth that there are countries, companies, various entities that are illegally seeking information about different parts of society — intelligence and so on — we need to pay very great attention to information security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u130	Mr President! The essence of our party's cause is security. Security is also an important cross-cutting theme in the current scientific policy report. Cyber attacks, the theft of information and the influence of information are very serious threats to which we must be prepared. Security, privacy and ethics must be placed at the heart of information policy and the exploitation of artificial intelligence. We must create a legal and ethical framework that minimises risks. In its opinion, the Ministry of Defence raised the possibility of raising Finland's awareness of AI safety-related expertise. We particularly support this. Better use of information is an opportunity for all of us, as long as our common security is ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u131	Mr President! This is an extremely important issue, and since I myself am an artificial intelligence entrepreneur, this subject is particularly close to me. The main problem with the use of artificial intelligence is the poor data quality in many sectors, especially in the public sector. It would be important for society to reform its information systems and combine their databases with the age of artificial intelligence. This would be an investment that would pay itself back many times as much and create a great ecosystem for the domestic AI industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u132	Madam President! I shall continue with a little ethical reflection, which I sidelined in the group speech. This is also a good report. It is important that such an information policy report has been made. Thank you to the government for that. Few of us think that Google, for example, knows more about us than probably any of our loved ones or we do. However, it is an advertising company or, in fact, a group that collects information about us for marketing purposes. It is a good example of the conditions under which the AI and Algorithm policy has progressed, that is, largely from a commercial point of view. It would therefore be good if, in addition to obvious commercial applications, we were to consider the boundaries in which it is ethical and justified to use algorithms and artificial intelligence in all public activities. A good example is, for example, that in child welfare we hardly have a situation where a human factor could be excluded, but, on the other hand, there may be many routine issues. For example, a lot of this debate is taking place in the United States at the moment, and we should catch up with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u133	Mr President! The virtual future of Europe is now being discussed at all the EU tables. The Digital Europe programme for 2021-27 and the Internal Market programme refer, among other things, to the digital transformation, where it would be necessary to invest in the success factors of the future and in a strong digital economy. There is also talk of bottlenecks and it is said that the EU is globally lagging behind in other areas and that a more strategic European vision is needed. This over-Europeanism is therefore also very much on the agenda when it comes to the ethical aspect of artificial intelligence. It is known, therefore, that the European Commission is involved in preparing an ethical framework based on fundamental and human rights for the sustainable exploitation of AI, which examines the impact on privacy, human dignity, consumer protection, non-discrimination and so on. These are important issues, and they go hand in hand — digitalisation, artificial intelligence has huge potential for a country like Finland — but at the same time it is remembered that every innovation, aha-life also has an ethical impact, that they are balanced in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u134	I will give you two more answers, Mr Östman and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u135	Madam President! It is true that digitalisation and the use of artificial intelligence can be of great benefit to society and citizens when properly used. It was good that Mrs Wallin took these ethical aspects into account. In other words, when artificial intelligence — I say ‘when’, ‘if’—to learn and travel human feelings, this can have unforeseeable effects. Artificial intelligence may change our behavior, our human perception and values more than we would like, as we also stressed in the group talk. I would like to ask the government: how are you prepared for this ethical aspect of any future legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u136	Mr President! It is also important to remember that our main objective is to achieve sustainable development and to prevent global warming. The development of AI should also support the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, as without policy coherence we will not progress towards achieving the SDGs. Artificial intelligence and digitalisation do not necessarily contribute to sustainable development unless they also invest in it consciously. In other words, we must actively strive and take this into account in all decision-making as one of the criteria for decision-making, including when we consider the use and use of artificial intelligence applications. I would like to ask the Minister how this sustainable development agenda has been taken into account in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u137	Then the Minister has the floor, please. Is three minutes enough, or is it gonna take longer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u138	Mr President! A few comments: First of all, I would like to say that in terms of new technologies — digitalization, robotics or artificial intelligence — we have had too much as an approach to such a technology tip above, and this should be extended, and I believe that this was also meant by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen when he raised this issue of sustainable development. Firstly, in response to this technology issue, to the new technologies, it is our responsibility in this house to ensure that we speak and do such legislation, that the public also understand what is at stake. That new technologies must not depend on the interests of the elite and on the understanding of the business world, but we will be able to accept all our new technological solutions when the public understands what these are all about. There has been a lot of support for ethics here, and reference has been made, among other things, to the thinking of the Council of Europe and the Commission of Europe and, in this way, to the building of an ethical framework. I think that, if we look at Europe, including Finland, it is precisely ethical issues that are such a liberal Western value base that suits us well, and that is where we find those strengths. We cannot compete in making artificial intelligence with China or the United States, but our strengths can be found in the application of artificial intelligence, and that is precisely the ethical issues involved. I would like to say, perhaps, what has also been said in that report, that ethics cannot be defined in scientific terms, and it is worth remembering that ethics is a rising sector. When I look at Finnish government, we have quite a few such boards where ethics are considered as separate. There is an ETENE or Ethical Advisory Board in the field of social and health care, but I believe that in the next few years we will also need to look beyond these ethical issues within the Government. I would like to thank you for this debate. I think that this debate has already shown that there is an order for this report in Parliament. Perhaps I would remind you that, in my own speech, I said that these common principles and guidelines are being sought here, but after this report a proper road map work will begin, which then sets out a proper policy on how to move forward. I think it is extremely important for Finland to be very active in international fora on this issue of ethics — artificial intelligence. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u139	Now, at this stage, the debate and the matter will be suspended for reasons of timetable. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u140	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u141	Mr President! This comprehensively prepared report focuses on information policy and artificial intelligence. The Government's aim is to make Finland a pioneer in the application of AI and information policy, and I think we have a very good chance of doing this. Security, privacy and ethics must also be placed at the heart of information policy and the exploitation of artificial intelligence. Information policy is a policy effort to promote good management and efficient use of information. With digitalisation, our society is increasingly dependent on data and services built on it. Business based on data economy, platform economy and artificial intelligence is growing rapidly, whether we want it or not. Finland must play a strong role in defining international rules for data economy and artificial intelligence. Compared to leading data countries, the USA and China, Finland’s advantage is an ethical and secure information policy and artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence should not be given the right to take discriminatory decisions. There are always risks associated with the large-scale use of data. Data leaks are commonplace and we are concerned about what data collected about us is being used for. It is clear that in the future, everyone's ability to decide on the use of their own data should be increased. The report well recognises the importance of ethics, but empathy and emotional skills are not addressed. The machine can never completely replace human and human interaction, and at least I personally think it is important that, in the context of the orientation of information policy, not only ethical but also humanity be taken into account. We could add justice and absolutely truth to this. When artificial intelligence is harnessed to serve us, our needs must also be taken into account when developing services. In addition to physical well-being, social and emotional needs must also be taken into account. In addition to knowledge of information and technology, empathy and knowledge must also be ensured. This will contribute to the overall well-being of people as technology increases. High-quality knowledge has always been a prerequisite for the success of our country. Finnish information and technology expertise and related research must be invested in. In addition, it is important to ensure that professionals and companies in the sector are profitable to remain in Finland and that our country is attractive also from the perspective of foreign experts. This may not be the case at the moment. In all cases, we cannot compete with international players. However, we can offer and market our security, stability and well-being, among other things. A high-quality and publicly supported school system and health care are exceptional on a world scale, as are the fact that we have children who can go to school safely alone. There is no need to go very far from Finland when this is not possible. I am in favour of upholding soft values and of the orientation of information policy on measures to ensure knowledge and business retention in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u142	Mr President! This information policy report is a very good opening-up to the debate on information policy and what it involves. I would raise four key points here. First of all, digital services. It is very important that digital services are fully available throughout the country. Digital services and digitalisation should make it even more difficult to transfer services to places where fewer people and more people use personal services, for which the utilisation of digitalisation and electronic services are slightly more difficult to use. After all, the approach has now been a little different, i.e. through digitalisation services have been transferred to growth centres and to users who, according to the studies, are primarily in growth centres there, there is a personal service as well as a digital service. It should be the other way around. The essential thing for digital services must be ease of use. There must also be simple enough systems for older people to get to these services even further away from where there is no personal service. For the digital infrastructure, broadband networks are also very important in the sparsely populated area. Wireless networks and broadband networks are not mutually exclusive; they are complementary to each other in order to make the system sufficiently comprehensive, to avoid blindness and disruptions and to ensure that the connection is maintained. Some time ago we also discussed the spatial data policy report here, and now that we are dealing with this information policy, of course it comes in this context who owns it and who can use it. This is not clearly written out here, that there is now a need for further clarification, how, with this increased data collection, the ownership of its accurate information and who will be able to use it in the future. It is quite a crucial question as to how to resolve it. Everything a and o is that the individual must have the right to personal personal data and personal data that these different systems have collected about the person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u143	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u144	Mr President! In addition to the information policy report in the recent referral debate, information policy will also be promoted in concrete terms at the legislative level. Now there is a law on public administration information management in the debate. This is a general law on information management. It regulates data management requirements in a uniform manner for the entire public administration. New forms of data exploitation, more real-time use of data and more networked approaches place new requirements on data management regulation. The aim is to make it possible to implement public services based on knowledge in a more high-quality, efficient and efficient way, supported by information management. The bill is part of the Government’s Digitalisation of Public Services tipping project. The new law promotes the automation of public administration processes and the digitalisation of services. The law will improve the use of data collected by public authorities. This will reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. According to the proposal, the administration's client may not be required to produce certificates or extracts for the handling of the case if the authority has the right to receive the same information from another authority in an up-to-date manner by means of technical interfaces or by means of a view link. From the citizen's point of view, this will contribute to the fact that information about him is only asked once. Over the past ten years, the Parliament has made a number of unanimous statements in order to promote the interoperability of the information systems of the authorities. The Parliamentary Audit Committee and the Administrative Committee have also made critical comments in several opinions on the interoperability of information systems. The Data Management Act will enhance the implementation of the interoperability of information systems. It is responsible to the authorities for organising the exchange of information in an interoperable manner between information systems. The Data Management Act also allows for better regulation, in line with the objectives of the Government Programme. There are now more than three hundred regulations laying down technical connections, i.e. more than three hundred. There have been no harmonised security regulations for the authorities in Finland. However, studies have already been carried out in the late 1990s which have shown the need to develop information security regulation. The Government's proposal now includes requirements ensuring a basic level of information security for the authorities. Our society operates on the basis of the availability of information systems and the information contained in them, but also on the basis of the necessary confidentiality. In order to ensure the proper provision of services by public authorities, in accordance with good governance, adequate information security measures must be taken by the authorities in their own activities. In this context, I would also like to say that this proposal does not change the regulation on publicity and confidentiality or on the grounds of disclosure. The general provisions on these matters can be found there in the public domain. The regulation of data management is already quite old. For this reason too, the legislation needs to be updated and clarified to reflect the current and future operating environment and service structures. The Government's proposal lays the foundation for the government's life cycle in information management. The proposal now before Parliament provides a sustainable basis for the information management of public authorities' services in the transition to the 2020s. This will enable public authorities to develop their services to citizens in such a way as to meet their expectations in the coming decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u145	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u146	Mr President! I cannot fail to continue the debate on artificial intelligence and digitalisation during Question Time and the previous paragraph, although I am aware that my speech goes a little beyond this draft law, but since there were not so many reservations, the President will allow this. Of course, it is a little strange — or I do not know now whether it is unusual, but a little funny in itself — that this law should be brought before Parliament has defined these information policy principles and policies in the above-mentioned reporting procedure. If it had gone logically, then this should have happened the other way around, but I do understand that this law cannot be passed on. The purpose of this bill is to make it possible to implement public services based on knowledge in a more high-quality, efficient and efficient way, supported by information management. The aim of the proposal’s information policy is to improve the efficient disclosure and use of data in a secure way between authorities, other actors and services — an extremely important objective. This proposal will contribute to removing barriers to different information systems and data reserves. Different authorities have their own very precise, limited registers, and this reform must ensure that information does not end up in the wrong places, while at the same time ensuring that it meets the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Modern technology makes it very easy to combine data and manage large databases. That is what we discussed in Question Time. That is why the processing of individual databases, let alone the electronic transmission of them, must be very precise, even in relation to information which is, in itself, public. Mr President! We have just discussed here that the development of human and needs-driven artificial intelligence requires the provision of extensive shared data databases according to the omadata principles so that the individual can have confidence in data protection and also the right to decide which parties can use the information about him. There is therefore a need for mechanisms to enable a strong security of the individual without jeopardising access and possible reuse. In this context, Finland should invest in developing software competence, as in the world of algorithms it is strategically necessary to reduce dependence on imported digital platforms. In particular, public administration's AI procurements and digital platforms must not be dependent on opaque solutions purchased elsewhere, but Finland must have sufficient algorithm skills to safeguard the interests of its citizens. Mr President! With regard to Question Time and the above-mentioned report, a few words about digitalisation and digital competence. It is necessary to increase the cross-sectoral competence associated with digitalisation in all sectors and levels of society. From the perspective of human and needs-driven digitalisation, it would be important to increase citizens' knowledge and understanding of working and working with artificial intelligence, its possibilities, limitations and the ethical dimensions of AI-assisted activities. This approach would also help to prevent digital exclusion and create a basis for human and needs-driven competitiveness. Finland needs a digital divide closing programme, as we have almost a million citizens who are unable, able, able or able to use digital services. We often think that all our young people are digital and move smoothly in the digital world, but unfortunately this is not the case. Although young people skillfully use smartphones and surf online, they often fail to fill out different applications or forms, for example. Thus, young people move in a very limited way in the digital world. The goal of the digital divide closing programme must be that all Finns must have access to the latest technology and the best applications, and this requires the diverse use of society. Libraries, free cultural work, youth work, schools and many others are needed, while also bearing in mind the need to ensure accessibility and accessibility of digital services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u147	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u148	Mr President! Two amendments are proposed to the Act on Spring. In future, Keva would be obliged to carry out a risk assessment as part of strategic decision-making and risk management. In the risk assessment, Keva should assess the impact of the relevant risks on its operations and the measures it can take to manage the risks identified in the assessment. According to the current legislation, Spring must already have a risk management system that is adequate to the extent and quality of its operations, so the change would not entail significant new tasks for Spring. This amendment corresponds, where applicable, to the amendment to the Employment Pension Insurance Companies Act of 2016 on the risk and solvency estimates of employment pension insurance companies and is based on the implementation of the EU Directive. On the other hand, Spring cannot be obliged to make a solvency assessment, since Keva does not have a solvency requirement based on a different financing model from Keva's pension insurance companies. Keva's statutory role is to add activities related to the reduction of the risk of disability. The purpose of this is to clarify the law in order to meet the tasks that Keva already performs. The aim is not to extend Keva's current tasks or activities. The Act is proposed to enter into force in spring 2019. However, the entry into force of the Risk Assessment Act is proposed for the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u149	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u150	Madam President! It is justifiable for Keva to assess these risks in the same way as others, because today there are many things going on in the world and it is good to prepare for them in advance. One big risk is, of course, this regional and social reform, where the risk has been at present, in relation to Keva, that if many of these services go to the private side and the companies, then, of course, that is why there are quite a lot of people leaving the financier, in particular the municipalities, and that is why this one risk must also be taken into account here. It is a very good idea that the risk of disability and the preventive measures will also be included in Keva's activities on a statutory basis. My question to the Minister is, therefore, a further clarification: this strengthens the thought-based model of Keva's occupational health care in its own right after this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u151	Mr President! I think that all of us – and there are also a lot of municipal decision-makers and experts in the municipal sector here – feel together that the position of Keva must also be financially secure in the future. I personally think that Keva has opportunities here too on the health care side, but, as we all know, it is of course an activity in which new decisions are needed, and it is not in the hands of the Government at the moment. But I personally think that everything that Mrs Keva can do with her own efforts to reduce disability pensions and then increase the ability of the local government, the public side, to continue working as long as possible, is absolutely essential. As far as regional reform is concerned, on the one hand, the provinces will also become members of Keva, and, on the other hand, when we know that cooperative models are also being planned, I myself think that it should be possible to continue to reform the Keva legislation in such a way that cooperatives can also become members of Keva.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u152	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes is still reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u153	Mr President! Since 2007, Finland has had a procedure for municipalities with a particularly difficult financial situation, the so-called crisis municipality procedure. In the crisis municipal procedure, the State and the municipality concerned will examine the possibilities for the municipality to provide its residents with the services required by the legislation and assess the measures to be taken to safeguard the conditions of the services. The crisis municipal procedure will start if the municipality meets the assessment criteria laid down in the law. These are the deficit of more than EUR 1000 per capita in the current legislation, provided that the deficit in the previous year has been more than EUR 500, the non-covered deficit in the period covered or the four separate municipal economic indicators, all of which jointly initiate the procedure. In May, the Ministry of Finance set up a working group to reform the assessment procedure and criteria of a particularly difficult municipality, consisting of representatives of the Ministry and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. The criteria used to define a particularly difficult financial position are designed to identify a significant deterioration in the municipality’s economy before the capacity of the municipality to provide services has been substantially compromised. Key figures under the current law are partly outdated as a result of the regional and social reform. In addition, municipalities are investing more and more in different financial arrangements, which means that the mere stock of loans no longer reflects the municipality’s finances with sufficient precision. The government proposal proposes to change the individual key figures, but not changes to the evaluation procedure itself. The opening of the evaluation procedure would therefore continue to be considered by the Ministry of Finance, which could take into account, for example, items having a one-off impact on the municipality’s finances. The government proposal continues to propose that the deficit criterion be maintained. On the other hand, changes are proposed to the four criteria that trigger the procedure together. According to the proposal, the previous negative annual margin would be replaced by a key figure describing the ratio between the annual margin and depreciation, which the municipality should have more than 80 per cent. The tax percentage in relation to the weighted income tax percentage of all municipalities would remain unchanged, but the critical level of the indicator would be raised from 1 to 2 percentage points. In this way, the key figure would better reflect the exceptionally high tax rate in the municipality. The comparison of the amount of the loan to the average would be replaced by an examination of the total amount of loans and rental liabilities. In place of relative indebtedness, a imputed loan management cover is proposed. This indicator describes the adequacy of the municipal income funding in relation to the municipality’s liabilities. The feedback received during the consultation on the changes to the key figures was mainly positive and the proposed changes to the key figures were considered justified. According to the opinions, the changes put forward will develop the evaluation procedure into a fairer and more reliable assessment of the financial situation of the municipal group. Mr President! This amendment to the Local Government Act also involves a change in the so-called "involvement and influence" section of the Local Government Act, which aims to take into account diversity. The list of examples for promoting participation and influence would also be complemented by the analysis of the opinions of users of services who are regularly or longer-term residents or residents in the municipality. And this list of examples is not binding, the means and methods would, as they are today, be considered by the councils. And I say to this, a little outside this speech that we have had in use this kind of The future municipality reform throughout this term of government, the parliamentary term and has also had a parliamentary working party and has now met on a very regular basis. We did a study on dual municipalism, which produced the result that dual municipalism is not feasible for fiscal reasons and also for reasons of voting rights, but the result of its work was the idea of strengthening this plurality even in municipalities, and that is why this amendment has now been written here. This law is intended to enter into force in spring 2019 as soon as possible after its adoption here and confirmed by the President. However, according to the proposal, for the first time in 2022 new crisis limits would apply, using the key figures of the annual accounts for 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u154	Madam President! The crisis municipality criteria sound quite familiar, because many Finnish municipalities have actually used them just because they can be described to the delegates in what kind of economic situation they are in. I myself come from a municipality called Kotka, where these criteria have been referred to from time to time. That is why I think it is very good that now too, if I understood correctly from this presentation, there has become so-called warning lights, i.e. this kind of thing is not yet quite red-looking, but a little towards that which does not yet cause the evaluation procedure, but can be discussed. I think this is a very good practice. It is a very good thing that since the consultation, there has also been feedback on these current criteria, which have already given rise to a certain need for debate. When I looked at these figures here, there are deficit criteria. Even these figures would have met the criteria of at least three municipalities, at least more than 50 municipalities and more than several criteria, but I understand that there has been quite a small number of evaluation procedures if you look at the situation in 2016 and 2017. But that is very well-founded, and knowing that the situation in the municipalities is not making this any easier, it is, of course, good that it is followed by several different indicators, but also by this measure. Another thing I would like to draw attention to in recent years is the practice of not only talking about the situation of its so-called parent, but also involving the consolidated financial statements. In many municipalities, investments have been made and had to be made through companies, and that is why the whole responsibility lies with the municipality, which is supposed to be guaranteed by the municipal council decisions, and in any case it falls entirely under the responsibility of the municipality if anything happens there. At the same time, I cannot fail to say that today the evaluation procedure, in which we now have this famous one municipality on the table to some extent, is also for other reasons and not just on economic grounds. I hope that there will be no more of them, but that the municipalities and local authorities, as responsible actors, will be able to deal with matters so that this other reason is that the municipal affairs cannot be properly managed, will not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u155	Mr President! Of course, the situation of crisis groups has been difficult for a long time before it becomes a crisis municipality, and there is no single cause for that. Many municipalities, as Mr Paatero has already said, have begun to fear the signs of a crisis, and perhaps these reasons for fear should now be considered in greater detail. Many municipalities made next year's budget in a very strange situation. On the other hand, local government finances have been strengthened and good news is coming from the industrial and employment front in many regions, but there were difficulties in predicting local government finances. It has now become clear that the cuts in central government shares in municipalities have eaten up all the good local government finances considered to be expected by economic growth. At the same time, new tasks and obligations have been partially added without money. The situation cannot go on like this, but municipalities are now looking for a clear change in the basis of local government finances, so that the economy can be planned and forecast and stabilized in the future. One of the peculiarities of recent years is, for example, the savings claims made by the centralisation of regional hospitals' operations in surgery and on-call operations. Less than a couple of years ago, the government justified the new regulation with patient safety, and the budgetary savings were also behind them. Public cutting operations were driven down from smaller units. This autumn, the threats presented by the staff of these units and by the regional hospitals more than a year ago are beginning to materialise. Based on a survey conducted by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, it has been found that the promised savings are not coming to fruition. In the survey, the hospital districts responded to the savings of a few million euros and half responded to the cost increase of the regulation. The interpretation of the effects of the centralisation of special care based on surveys is similar in 2017 and 2018 respectively. Five of the responsible health care districts even estimated that expenditure had increased, while four had achieved savings due to the performance. According to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, in summary, only about 4% of the intended savings are achieved. The EUR 260 million proposed as a saving target for special care is not in the process of being implemented by these measures. According to a survey carried out by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, a more realistic savings execution would not exceed EUR 10 million. If the cost-saving effects really remain at such a low level, it should be said that the last base will fall from the centralisation of the government. However, despite the lack of savings, central government shares have been cut, as if the planned savings had been fully realised. This applies in particular to the expected benefits of the centralisation objectives of special care and the expected impact of the development of family and family care on the reduction of long-term institutional care. As a whole, this is a whole new policy when the state shares are already being pre-empted, even though the estimates are perhaps slightly weak. Next year, central government subsidies will decrease by 3%, central government transfers of basic services by 2% from this year. At the same time, in almost every medium-sized municipality, the population is ageing and therefore the need for services is also increasing. This is why, unfortunately, municipalities are now in great need to plan further cuts in services. This equation in the local government finances must be resolved in a systematic manner and no hasty cuts must be made in order to correct the one-year economy. This is the kind of action that makes crisis societies come. It would now be appropriate to put an end to the pre-emptive cuts in the state's share of municipalities, which are not based on the realities of the municipalities. Hopefully the next government will be ready to reform the direction of local government finances by the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u156	Madam President! It is very good that these criteria are reviewed from time to time and updated. It is worth remembering, however, the overall picture of what has happened in the economy during this parliamentary term and over the last few years. The economy has grown strongly, and this is also reflected in the local government economy. It is also true that in the municipal economy we have a small drop in central government transfers due to the fact that a revision of the allocation of costs between the state and municipalities has been carried out and that this will reduce the central government share by around EUR 200 million. Measures to reduce municipal tasks in accordance with the Government Programme reduce both municipal expenditure and central government share. This is something to remember with. In addition, the reduction in central government shares associated with the Competitiveness Pact will increase. The combined effect of central government measures on local government finances is approximately EUR 254 million, which is visible in the municipalities of next year, 2019. That these should be taken into account, and we must also bear in mind that the trend is positive, however, when more jobs have been created and it is reflected both in the tax revenues of municipalities, in the tax revenues of parishes and, of course, in the tax revenues of the state. Of course, we must bear in mind that, as we all know, if a person is unemployed in a municipality and has, of course, lost a considerable amount of income, it will directly affect the tax revenues of the municipalities in his or her contribution. When unemployment becomes long-term unemployment, it will then result in the municipality’s share of labour market support becoming that half of it easily paid, so that the local government expenditure will not increase. Unfortunately, there have been too many of these cases in recent years. In the last parliamentary term, this thing got out of hand, but we have now reached out to it, and the long-term unemployed, among others, have been delighted to get back into the labour market. I do not remember the exact number, but there is talk of tens of thousands, which is a very fine thing. It should also be borne in mind that this line must continue. The employment rate is now roughly 71.7 or 4 percentage points more than at the time Sipilä's government started, which means that it has gone a long way. Public finances have improved by between EUR 6 billion and EUR 7 billion, and some 120 000 people have been given a job. That the trend is good, but this feeling of comfort must certainly not remain, but we must ensure that this employment rate of almost 72% can be brought up to 75 in the next parliamentary term. It would be the right sustainable level for central government finances and also for public finances in general, so that we could build this economy and Finland, our beloved country, for the better. I hope that this growth, which has already begun, will be brought about by the current growth throughout Finland, as the editorial of the Helsingin Sanomat has written recently, to continue throughout Finland and not just in large growth centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u157	Mr President! This proposal to amend the municipal law is important, indeed important, even though the subject matter is gloomy. It is proposed to change the conditions for initiating a procedure for assessing a municipality in a particularly difficult financial situation to describe in more detail the adequacy of income financing, and to replace the ratio indicator of the conditions of the procedure with a credit management margin in the consolidated financial statements. As Mr Paatero has already said, it is very important that the financial position and the ability of municipalities to pay debts are examined specifically at group level. By looking at the group level, and only then can you get a real picture of the financial situation of the municipality, the ability of the municipality to manage its debts, the ability of the municipality to meet its financial obligations — the overall picture of the municipality’s finances. I also very much welcome the fact that it is proposed to treat municipal rental liabilities as loans in this proposal. Mr President! This is a gloomy subject, but just as Mr Hoskonen said earlier, we are fortunate that employment in our country has been strengthened very significantly during this parliamentary term. As Mr Hoskonen said, the local government economy, as well as the state economy, is also very important in economic terms, if and when people are employed and transferred to the economy of society, you can say that from one to the other. This strengthening of the economy is also very important in the sense that, although good legislation is now being adopted to change the criteria for crisis municipalities, the strengthening of the economy and the strengthening of employment will mean that these criteria will be needed hopefully and probably less frequently. However, the strengthening of employment and the increase in tax revenues is by far the most important and most important cornerstone of the economy and the source of income through which one or more of these criteria will be met by the municipality. Hopefully, economic development and growth will continue to be favourable and there will be as good a government as there is at present, which will create the conditions for strengthening employment and thus strengthening the local economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u158	Madam Speaker! Here if you look a little further, then maybe this beautiful sun is getting quite black clouds in the global economy, but also in terms of municipalities, just today's facts when you see it. Secondly, we have an increase in employment and income tax reductions, and from my point of view it seems that the municipalities have paid them, because when I look at them, and we can all see the increase in the municipal tax rate, which is quite averaged around 20 at the moment, the effective percentage is 14, and this is because of these reductions. The example of Tampere, when I visited there at some point, was that in 2016 they have received more tax revenue than they have now, although Tampere has an increase in population, although employment has improved, even though wages have increased, their tax revenue, which they receive from municipal tax, has decreased. This is an unimaginable equation that municipalities have actually paid these income tax discounts — if you look aggravately. Another big problem, according to this effective income tax rate, is that we also have very different municipalities. When you look at the plus of what municipalities do, it is actually all in Helsinki. In Helsinki's plus, next year's budget has several hundred million euros, and it is almost the same amount as in the total budget of municipalities next year. If we clean Helsinki out, the municipalities' budgets for next year will look a lot sadder, but when you look at the average of which Helsinki is involved, it will look a lot nicer. As far as this employment is concerned, I cannot yet say that, unfortunately, it was this week that it became known that all the tests of employment will be stopped, that is to say, the good models that have been done there in Pirkanmaa and Tampere and elsewhere, for example, in Vantaa. It is very sad that this good model for the activation of these long-term unemployed cannot be continued, but will be driven down and returned to the previous model, for which there have been no good results. But if this is the way we want to deal with this issue, it is only in general the local government economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u159	Mr President! I certainly do not dispute the fact that in many municipalities the employment situation has improved considerably. But the problem is exactly what Mr Paatero described here well above. Despite the fact that the situation in the region, the economic situation in the region as a whole, the municipality’s own economy has not experienced a similar improvement. Many municipalities had to increase their tax rate for next year. In Rauma, for example, only central government cutbacks meant a single tax rate — only a single tax rate. And then when you think that at the same time the population in the city is still getting older, this equation is just impossible. Of course, it is also known that we have a tax system for change, work in change and change, which means that the municipalities will also have to think in a completely new way about how the future will come from where the funds will then provide the necessary services for the local authorities. These preliminary savings, which have therefore been made in advance to the municipal economy, even though the costs are still borne by the municipalities there, seem to be a double penalty for municipalities, a false act. It must also be said that the Association of Local and Regional Authorities hopes for a reform of the financial system in order to ensure the sustainability of local government finances, and has also placed clear demands on Parliament and the future government: When new tasks come, when activities are expanded, a full state contribution must also be made to them. Estimates of the impact of the changes in function on the finances of municipalities must also be based on realistic calculation assumptions — that is, the very one I have just described — and the index increases must be fully implemented. Yes, this is the reality of the municipalities. So let us not paint the finances of municipalities with pink glasses, because the situation in most other municipalities is quite different from what it is in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u160	Madam President! Indeed, in Helsinki the average earnings of residents are probably higher than in some Utsjoki or Ilomants. Well, that's obvious. You don't need to give a lecture about it. The big reason for this is that a large proportion of the inhabitants of an eastern Finnish municipality are pensioners who receive a very small pension, while here in Kauniainen live — taking the extreme example — people with high incomes, well paid. Of course, the amount of municipal tax there is considerably higher, and it is pointless for us to argue about it. What is big about this is that when we have decided in this house in many years before this Parliament that taxation has been reduced, the taxation of low-income people and their position by reducing state taxes cannot be made any easier, because low-income people do not pay a cent of state tax, for example, by raising income tax or by some other means reducing municipal taxes. Here it comes, this effective tax rate, which was spoken by Mr Paatero, a representative of my highest esteem, even a distinguished person in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, who knows these things much better than I do. That's where these reasons come from. I do not want to polemise in any way here, just to say that this has been the case. Now we have to make sure that once Finland has finally got into this cycle of European growth, a positive cycle, that cycle must be maintained. How do you keep it? We need to keep our cost competitiveness in order. This is what the competitiveness pact was all about, and that's where it got there. We were about 10 percentage points behind our rival countries when this government started. It is not the cost-competitiveness that we try to cope with on the world market that comes to us as a manna, but we must do it ourselves. In time, when we went into the euro, we took the path of having to do the internal devaluation ourselves. In the past, the D pills were used to do the job so that when the cost went up, it was devalued, one or two or three times — as the cost went up, it was played with the external value of the money. The currency value was reduced and exports were again withdrawn, but unfortunately those with the least marks in their pockets were affected. This is not a strange phenomenon for anyone in this room. It is worth remembering these facts. And now, Madam President, to conclude: when we look at the economic development of this nation, let us at last, when we finally agree that the bioeconomy has taken huge strides forward and is growing everywhere in Finland, we should stop doing these logging restrictions and other such things, and together we should look ahead and take care of climate policy at the same time and put an end to this kind of artificial braking where the forest and bioeconomy are, in other words, in the rural municipalities of Finland, which most of the municipalities of Finland have. I would like to see a little more open-minded thinking in this policy, when it is the whole country from Helsinki to Utsjoki, the beloved country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u161	Then Minister Vehviläinen, please. How about three minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u162	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that this debate has gone a long way from these criteria for a crisis municipality, but I do understand that there are many different sides to municipal issues. Then I'd like to make a few comments. First of all, when Mrs Viljanen said that the subject matter is very gloomy and I think Mrs Hoskonen said so, I should also like to stress that the evaluation procedure does not mean that there is always that forced alliance at the end of the evaluation procedure. We also have examples in recent years that, through the evaluation procedure, we will have to do so. the municipality and then the government have jointly found these good ways and the finances of the municipality have been put on a sustainable footing. Personally, I would like to say when we look at next year's budget, which still has EUR 1.6 billion in debt, that at least I internalise my own task so that we have to take care of, good care, public finances, whether it be a state or very self-government. In other words, a very stable local government economy, a stable central government economy and a stable future regional economy — it is up to us all to do so. Then, to this broader debate on local government finances, I would like to say that during this parliamentary term we have not done so-called level cuts to the state contributions of the municipalities there. The indices have not been raised, as we all know. But then there are also mechanisms, which are not political decisions, which, unfortunately, will also weaken part of the municipal economy next year, and one of them is this revision of the division of costs between the state and the municipalities, to which Mr Hoskonen referred. Then there is another matter which I am extremely sorry about, which relates to this tax-accounting law. So when taxes are paid, part belongs to the state, part belongs to municipalities, part belongs to churches and part then to us taxpayers, and that final, in a way, information comes afterwards. And now, as far as last year is concerned, both with capital taxes and also with these holiday allowance cuts, many people had too high tax rates, and now, on Tuesday, many received large tax refunds. And this synergy — since I have been following the municipal budget readings now in the last few weeks — has made those losses seem rather large. But then we will certainly have a common understanding that nothing is more important than stable local government finances, and that is why we have also set up this preliminary study of the state participation system, and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities will hopefully be very closely involved in it, and we will be able to see what the new system of local government transfers would be like after this reform of the social welfare system. It is not an easy job, but we must do so immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u163	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral debate again. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u164	Mr President! The government gave 5.12. i.e. last week, a proposal to Parliament for a law on the State Financial and Human Resources Service Centre, better known as Palkeet. The law replaces the previous regulation level. Central Government Financial and Human Resources Service Centre Palkeet provides financial and human resources management services and other similar administrative support and expert services. The customers are central government agencies and over 70,000 employees of the state. Palkeet's service production is based on service-mindedness, partnership, efficient electronic processes and cost-effectiveness. The podiums are also an active developer of central government processes and their own operations. Palkeet operates in Joensuu, which means there is a main place in Joensuu, and Palkeet works in Hämeenlinna, Mikkeli and Pori. In addition, temporary offices are located in Helsinki and Lappeenranta. There are 650 staff. The turnover of the remuneration is approximately EUR 55 million. Wages work on the cost-benefit principle. These payments cover the costs of providing and developing services. The development of services and processes is carried out in cooperation with customers, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. The remunerations as an organisation started operating in 2010. Service centre operations in financial and human resources matters in central government began in 2005. I myself think so, at least, when regionalisation is sometimes referred to in this Chamber, quite rarely today, but I believe that this is a good example of regionalisation, which was done at the time of the first decade of the 21st century. I also remember that it was not too easy to have been born, and when I was in charge of the other ministry myself, I remember that there was still a discussion about whether the Palettes were working well enough. But I have not heard of such assessments and criticism in recent years. The proposal proposes to provide for a law on the Central Government's Financial and Human Resources Service Centre. The proposal proposes to carry out a number of amendments to the Organisational Act on the State Financial and Human Resources Service Centre and to make the regulation at the level of the law. In the past, the service centre has been regulated only at the Government's level of regulation, and that is quite rare. Upon the entry into force of the Act, it is proposed that the offices of the service centre should be regulated by a separate Government decree. The regulation provides for the headquarters of Joensuu and other locations in Hämeenlinna, Mikkeli, Pori and Helsinki. The service centre may also have other offices. There are no new site solutions in this proposal, but what is currently stated in the Government Decree. The proposal provides for the status, tasks, customers, management system, the adoption of rules of procedure, the direction of the service centre, the resolution of matters and the payment of charges for services. There have also been changes in the tasks related to the HR administration of the State Treasury when some of the tasks of the HR have been delegated to the Administration of Finance and Personnel of the State. It is therefore also proposed to amend the Act on the Treasury in this respect. With regard to human resources management, it is proposed that employment services remain the responsibility of the State Office. Working life services focus on supporting management and supervisory work and the renewal of state working communities, as well as the development of health and safety at work and well-being at work. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2014. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u165	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that this legislation on service centres is now finally being brought to the level of the law. So far, the regulation has been applied, and the current Constitution is based on the fact that all public activities must be governed by law and the law must be strictly respected. Now, Mr Vehviläinen must be given a big thank-you to the big K for bringing this important state into the law at last and on a solid basis. From experience, I can say — and I know people who work at the Palks in Joensuu, for example — that they have done an excellent and productive job. I have not heard anything since the start-up difficulties were passed, but simply thank you for the work of its institution. Wages have worked well, and it shows that, today, the lessons learned from these Rewards would be of great benefit to try to decentralise these state measures across the country, because it is also wise for the future of the nation, because the decentralised system works — if there are ever crises to become — generally better than centralized. If you look a little at that bigger world, then at the time when the events of the World Trade Organisation were in New York, it was decided to decentralise the centralised system there later, when it was discovered that in one huge crash a huge number of big business managers and many other actors went into a state of paralysis, so that the management and measures of the operators concerned went into a state of paralysis for a short time. We in Finland should, of course, lift ourselves a little bit from the neck and use the experience gained from the beams in order to disperse the state administration so that this concentration, which is now quite advanced both mentally and physically in this country, can finally be reversed, because there is knowledge in those provinces, as the Palkeet has shown in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u166	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. As the Minister said, it is a question of bringing into law what has been at the level of the regulation. During Prime Minister Vanhanen's second government, when we were both members of it, this system was created, and certainly it is necessary. When the Minister here said that nothing has been said, my question is: do you sometimes ask the airport for information? I have only one experience: I visited the Riverside unit of the Natural Resources Centre in the autumn about three months ago when they moved to renovated, smaller premises, and there I received feedback that it could be further developed. They feel that certain things are done twice, and that is why it is only a hint that it would be good to ask at times how those who do the work experience their own work precisely from the point of view of rationality and elimination of duplication.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u167	Would the Minister like to respond? — 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u168	Mr President! With regard to this speech by Mrs Anttila, I would like to say so briefly that it is extremely important for a service centre such as this, which deals very extensively with the affairs of various government agencies, that that customer feedback goes directly too, and that customer feedback matters. We know from some other quarters of the state — even though we are talking about the Senate and so on — that there will be many feedbacks to the Minister from the point of view of being a little too hard on the feedback. I myself at least think so — and here too, of course, with regard to the remuneration, we have to look at this, the result steering is the place — that there is such a good dialogue, especially in these tasks, even though the Palkeet or indeed the Senate, where there are in a way monopoly players for customers. Then it means that they also need to be able to do much more to improve the quality if there are such unclear situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u169	Mr President! I forgot to say just now that this person who gave me this feedback said that he would take it forward, and I too, as a shepherd, that this would happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u170	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 25/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u171	Mr President! The new measurement of CO2 emissions has been applied to passenger cars and vans since 1.9.2018. The new WLTP method replaced the previously used NEDC method. The government has started from the fact that the new method of measuring emissions must not increase car taxation. In June, i.e. last June, the Parliament discussed the draft amendment to the Automobile Tax Act, in which the aim was to adjust car tax levels to the emission values according to the new method of measurement so that tax levels would remain unchanged compared to the situation before the change in measurement methods entered into force. However, even when this change came into force on 1 September 2018, there was a strong suspicion that the change would not do the right thing for big cars. This change was based on the models made by the Commission’s Institute for Research (JRC) and therefore there was not enough real information to draw reliable conclusions. In its statement, Parliament therefore required the Ministry of Finance to monitor the impact of the change on the level of taxation and to present an expert report on them by the end of 2018. According to the statement, the Ministry had to prepare the necessary government proposals without delay and bring them to the attention of Parliament when the report gave rise to remedial legislative measures. Mr President! The proposal at first reading is based on the expert report required by Parliament and its conclusions. From a study carried out in cooperation between VTT Oy and Trafi, it can be concluded that the change that came into force on 1 September 2018 raised tax levels for large cars. The present revision of the tax tables is justified in order to remedy this. The car industry has also welcomed the outcome of the expert consultation. According to the sector, the new tax table produces almost tax-neutral results. The amendment is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year. However, it shall apply from the date of publication of the proposal, i.e. 3 December 2018. The tax administration will refund the overpaid car tax on its own. The discussion of the proposal here in Parliament should be regarded as relatively urgent, as the proposal was submitted on the eve of Independence Day. The committee proposes the adoption of a government proposal without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u172	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 19/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u173	Madam Speaker! The committee was unanimous in its decision on this amendment to the Kemera Act. A provision would be introduced to allow automatic decision-making of the seedling in order to grant early care, young forest management and health care support and, once action has been taken, to decide on the final amount. At the same time, the provision on appeal would be amended as regards appeals against a decision taken by the administrative court on the basis of an appeal. What happened now in plain language: when Kemera decisions have to be made according to EU regulations — a preliminary decision in advance and after action has been taken — and this has required unnecessary handicraft work on paper, it is now being automated, just as many tax decisions have been made. It was quite interesting that the Ministry of Justice was a little cluttered about this and would not have wanted it to go forward, but then it came to the conclusion that this could be done. This is a very sensible matter, and it eliminates unnecessary work and unnecessary use of time, and now Metsäkeskus can focus more on development. At the same time, of course, decision-making speeds up, and there can be much more in real time. We did not see any negative things in committee here, but we are glad that this is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u174	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Temporary Financing Act for Sustainable Forestry to include a provision allowing automatic decision-making in early childhood care, young forest management and health fertilisation to be granted, and to decide on the final amount of aid. This change is small and technical, but it is entirely in the right direction. Whether we think about it from the point of view of a single Finnish forest owner, municipalities, the state or the national economy, managing young forests, tending to care for waste management, taking care of the growing condition of forests and ensuring the highest possible forest growth condition are very important. This is important both from the economic point of view and from the point of view of the ever-increasing climate and carbon sequestration. A well-managed, very growing forest binds coal. Exciting forest carbon sequestration creates the carbon sink, the size of which has been the subject of heated debate here in recent weeks. There are different views on the size of carbon sinks, but I think everyone agrees that a well-managed forest is the most effective binding of carbon. Mr President! As I said at the outset, this legislative amendment is small, and the committee was completely unanimous on it, but the legislative amendment is a step in the right direction. Any action and change that facilitates and contributes to the good management of forests, especially young forest management waste, and their implementation and improvement of forest growth condition, is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u175	Madam President! It is a very great thing that the funding law for sustainable forestry is brought into effect by this kind of automatic procedure. In my previous career, I was on the side of private forestry for over 20 years in these particular forest improvement and other tasks, and then the management of the trout was actually done in such a way that the only agreement that was made before the seedling was an agreement with the landowner to do the job and at the same time a cost estimate was presented to the landowners. Then, after the work was done, the implementation report was made, a single paper that went to the Forest Center on the basis of which the funding came. In other words, there was no bureaucracy at all, there was no bureaucracy at all. I was wondering when this bureaucracy gradually crept back into private forestry. Now it seems that we are back to the good old procedure of being in this kind of automatic procedure. It is self-evident that when some subsidies are allocated out of society, it always involves control and controls, sampling checks, which is probably the best procedure in such cases, but definitely such a procedure, in which the treatment of the seedling is done quickly, smoothly without bureaucracy and then through sampling, is the only way to go. When we go into the other procedures that have been tried here, it is always a defeat for the whole of private forestry, because it reduces the real workload, directs the money to the wrong place, that is, bureaucracy, and, worst of all, the forest will not be taken care of. So it seems that we are returning to the good old times, even if we should not remember the old ones, but now we had to. Madam President! In the same context, with this climate change, I would like to say that, as Mrs Viljanen said in her excellent speech, coal sequestration can only be achieved in a very growing forest. The kind of protected forest that doesn't grow and rot up, it's a carbon producer, not a carbon binder. But the most important thing now is to see that, at the beginning of the next decade, when the Kemera Act is being amended, it will be completely renewed, I hope, Mr President, that the new law will bring much more up-front the issue of forest health fertilisers. It must be remembered that, for example, when fellings are added, thinning fellings are precisely, of course, out of the forests will decarbonize and then it will go to the pulp mill or whether it will go to the sawmill, wherever it goes, and the forest must restore that growth power, i.e. trace elements and nutrients, in order that the forest will continue to grow. Ash fertiliser in this respect is an excellent thing because the ash that has been burned into energy in power plants would be returned to the forest by fertilizing forests and at the same time treating the nutrient balance of forests and smoothing the acidity of forests. After all, Finland's soils are known to be acidic. I hope that the new Kemera Act will bring this up, because it is precisely the correct adjustment of acidity and the correct level of nutrients that easily add many mots to a hectare of forest growth per year, and when there are more than 20 million hectares of forest in Finland, then if we get one mot a hectare of additional growth in a few areas, then we will achieve the fastest benefits that climate change serves, i.e. more wood with little effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u176	Madam President! Thank you for your excellent contributions. Mr Viljanen raised the question of carbon sequestration and, indeed, this small part of it makes it possible to increase its carbon sequestration. The more we care for our seedlings and young forests and the more they are fertilized, the more forests grow. This is precisely what it is worth investing in in the future, that we will have that growth of forests and an ever greater carbon sink to be born. On this actual legislation: In the previous Kemera reports, we have been concerned about how much money is left between small projects and only a small part of the Kemera funding goes into action. Now, in fact, there is an improvement that will save more money to be allocated to the actual work. If there is some confusion then in the implementation report and in the original applications, then the legal security of the forest owner will be ensured, because then these applications will be handled by handplay. So that's really great work from the ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u177	Madam President! In the reform of the Kemera Act and in these matters of seedling and forest management in general, it should be remembered that we have had a huge change in the structure of forest owners in recent years. Fewer and fewer forest owners live near their forests, which requires labour to do these nurseries and other forestry work. Of course, many forest owners persist in doing these work. I greatly appreciate the efforts made by forest owners in their own forest over the years, and hopefully the work will continue and new generations will take responsibility for forest management. But in the coming years, the renewal of the Kemera Act will come at a very important time. We need to get such a Kemera law into this country, which gives us such a small carrot that encourages people to manage their own forests and also to hire a professional forester to work there. Real carbon sequestration is considered, seedling management at the seedling stage is of paramount importance for the initial development of its forest, and then, for further development, thinnings in time will be the next step. After that, it makes sense to consider the forest health fertilizer that I have just mentioned, for example, in my region of North Karelia and also in that region of Savo. There are old, large, huge casserole areas, and in these casseroles the soil has this kind of micronutrient deficiency, among other things boron is lacking in quite a number of forest patterns, and among other things in seedlings and especially in spruces it is visible as very strong growth disturbances, and this growth disturbance is not repairable in anything other than rationally designed health fertilizer. When it is done correctly, good forest development will be ensured and, above all, the harvest that has been sought will be recovered. It is true that the investment in forest management today will only generate revenue for decades to come. It is a long-term work, but look around us, ladies and gentlemen, after the wars we have doubled the stock of forest trees, and forest growth has more than doubled. Now we are able to enjoy these fruits, which our fathers have done tenaciously for decades without thinking at all about the fact that the proceeds there are decades away. The same tradition must be maintained in Parliament now that we are giving it a chance. It is one of tens of millions of euros per year, but the amount of work it creates in Finland... If anyone dares even further to look at what industry has been created in Finland through forests, it is, of course, the metal industry, the chemical industry and many more. The electric side has developed enormously precisely because of the forests, because machines and equipment had to be designed to make the sawmills play and the pulp mills play and so on. This is the national interest of Finland, and I hope that there will be a great consensus in this House on this issue. That's exactly what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u178	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u179	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the law on the rehabilitation of front veterans. In the future, front veterans who participated in wars between 39 and 45 and who have a military code, a military code or a military code will be replaced by services supporting living at home. The costs incurred by municipalities and joint municipal authorities would be reimbursed by the State Treasury. Local authorities and joint municipal authorities currently provide services to front veterans to support living at home within the limits of the budget paid by the State Treasury, but the services have been different from those paid to the war-qualified. In the future, front veterans and war veterans will be on an equal footing with regard to services supporting living at home. It is proposed that front veterans should be provided with services of the same content as military veterans on the basis of the Military Injury Act. I think this is the only and the right decision, and one can only wonder why this decision has not been taken before. Madam President! I would hope that the front veterans who were born in 1926 will receive the same support, and I hope this will be the case. Perhaps I have not read the government's proposal in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u180	Mr President! This committee's report states that front veterans are governed by the law by the express right to home-support services and are replaced by state resources for municipalities and joint municipal authorities. Although front veterans have already been provided with home support services within the framework of the state budget under the current regulation, this proposal strengthens the right of veterans to access these services and to extend to some extent the services to be reimbursed. The committee also considers it important, in principle, that the proposal clarifies the legal status of front veterans and strengthens their right to home-based services at the level of this legislation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also discussed today an important legislative initiative, in which the joint commitment of all parties suggests that the disability threshold for treatment under the Military Injury Act is reduced from 20% to 10%. In the future, therefore, it will be easier for the war-qualified to access state-funded care and rehabilitation that cannot cope alone at home. The extension of the replacement of maintenance provided by the institution in accordance with the initiative constitutes an essential benefit for the disabled concerned and thus facilitates their position. It has to be said that it was during the examination of this proposal by the government in committee that we learned that it would also be possible to lower this handicap threshold, and the committee unanimously, with the joint commitment of all the parties, decided to take up this matter which was heard in committee and to take up this initiative, which has now been dealt with in committee and is now coming to this Chamber. In this way, it can be said that expert consultations are an important part of parliamentary work, which can also do good when we are paying attention there and there is a common desire to do so. We all have a duty to ensure that older veterans and their mates do not remain alone. They must be present not only in solemn speeches but also in actions, so such decisions seem good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u181	Madam President! It is very good that we are finally getting this thing moving forward. The services taken home by veterans are all the more important because many veterans have, as is known, weakened over the years, and as the average age approaches 95 years, everyone understands that the need for care will certainly increase. Just now we heard this bill coming out of the committee coming out of the mouth of a representative, which gives all veterans the same services that are granted to invalids, when the handicap rate is 10%, to all those services being arranged under the law and financed by the State as a whole. That is what we owe our honourable citizens. I know from my own experience, when I myself have done some of these different tasks, that in many municipalities the services of veterans are at a very good level. There are very active people who, with their own contribution, are doing valuable work in cooperation with the municipalities and congregations for the benefit of veterans, for the benefit of veteran widows, for the benefit of war orphans. Although the veteran moves after the final evening cry to the latter, of course, the widow of the veteran will not be forgotten in that connection, but will also be helped and treated with honor until the end. Similarly, the fate of war orphans in Finland after the wars was quite terrible, when loneliness was ahead and access to help was bad at the time. We have to help them too. I hope that in the coming years attention will be drawn to the fact that this generation of veterans and the widows of those who have the VA will receive good care until the end and will thereby receive the recognition that the country owes them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u182	Madam President! It is really great that veterans of our wars are now receiving home services, whether there are many or few veterans in the municipality, whether there has been active use of that money, run out of money or not. In the past, these services were well offered, but in some municipalities there were problems with the fact that funding was not enough. Now this court is kind of subjective, and it's a great thing. The same is true of the fact that the disadvantage rate has now been reduced to 10%. Even if the disability rate is not very high, that disadvantage rate has been the burden of life, and it is rather unfortunate that there has been such a group of interveners who have not been able to access such rehabilitation or housing as is justified by the War Injury Act. The veterans have built this Finland with the bravery they showed during the wars, and we must now only bear that debt. It is great that quite a few Finns also do volunteer work. Many times we can simply listen, visit, help veterans. I know that in Central Finland, for example, Tikkakoski has met veterans capable of nailing the whole province, and that is entirely the result of voluntary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u183	Mr President! We have the last moments to give all our thanks and support to the veterans who defended our country, our distinguished citizens. It is important that every veteran receives services to be taken home and that, with the support of the state, we can guarantee it in every municipality, and I also hope that every municipality will work to reach every one of its war veterans and lotta so that they can get help and support home. Mr Salonen also stated above that a bill is being adopted by all parties to improve the position of all the war-qualified, including the most severely handicapped war-qualified, who have, throughout their lives, been carrying this burden of disability. Many veterans also have a fragment in their soul, even if there are no physical injuries. They need all the support and help we can give them. Mr Hoskonen also raised the issue of the situation of war orphans, and I personally hope that there will also be an improvement in the status of war orphans. Many of them have had a harsh childhood that has affected them throughout their lives. Fragile and elderly veterans are only with us for a moment. At the reception on Independence Day, the most impressive discussions and encounters were with these very veterans, with our honourable citizens, and I hope that Parliament could speed up all the legislative proposals, such as the draft law before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and bring them here so that we can pay them our debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u184	Mr President! It is quite true that for a very long time we will no longer have this debt of honour to pay, and that is why it has been so unfortunate, as the committee has heard, that there has been an exchange of orders in the municipalities, although, in principle, we have thought that these services are equally available to them in the case of veterans. So the Front Veterans have been in a very unequal position, depending on where they lived in Finland, and this has of course not been right. Just as Mr Karimäki said, it is also important now that information is sent to municipalities and that municipalities are activated — including the municipalities where there is now something to fix. I, too, am concerned about war orphans, and I know that in part they feel that they have been completely ignored. Now that we know that the number of veterans is shrinking, I think it is important to go from a state point of view, too, to create a completely new bridge towards the war orphans and to consider how we can help them in their losses and in their harsh childhood, as Mr Karimäki said.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u185	Madam President! It was decided — I might say — to extend the domestic and open services of war veterans to all veterans, because in the past war veterans have had greater rights than front veterans. We must continue to thank the whole of Parliament, all the parliamentary groups, for the cooperation that has brought about this decision. This is one of the things that was really only now achieved in broad agreement, if we consider the debt we owe to these people, who have defended our country, and that is why we can now live here in Finland, an independent, secure Finland. I think it is extremely important and wonderful that this law is now finally coming into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u186	Mr President! As many colleagues have already said, I too am very pleased that all veterans now have access to the same level of home-based services regardless of their place of residence, their municipality of residence, their location. It is very good and right that in the future we will not have to do classifications, different divisions between them, who were ready and put their whole lives at risk in order to ensure Finland’s independence and defend Finland’s independence. I am very pleased that we here today can be in the process of strengthening the law by which we, for our part, are paying the debt of honour that we owe to veterans and to their entire generation. It is very good that this bill has enjoyed the undivided trust and support of all the parliamentary groups and that this matter is now finally moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u187	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u188	Mr President! This is a financial proposal, and I would just like to say from our committee and from our committee's report that the proposed extension of the training allowance will increase the opportunities for the development of the division of labour between health professionals, that is to say, this development that we have had in recent years in the distribution of work between doctors and nurses. The Committee stresses that training must ensure that the competence of nurses is equivalent to the level required for limited prescriptions. The committee also believes that adequate financial resources must be made available to compensate for the training required for limited prescription, and that reimbursement of the costs of prescription training must not undermine the level of other training allowances. In addition, both with regard to this government proposal and with regard to the previous proposal on social training, the committee considered it important that both the social and health sectors are in a similar position. In other words, issues that are being replaced in the health sector and in which the state is involved should also be involved in the social sector. This is not the case now, and we hope that it will be improved in the future, because if we want to talk about integrated social and health care, we must also treat both social and health care professionals in an equal, equivalent way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u189	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u190	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on parental responsibility and rights of access. This performance has been expected in many divorced families. In this proposal, it is proposed to clarify the general provisions of the law on the content of parental responsibility and access rights. New provisions include the obligation of guardians to protect the child from violence, to foster close relationships with the child and to contribute to the realisation of the right of access. It is also proposed to supplement the elements to be taken into account in resolving the issue of parental responsibility and rights of access. All these reforms are such that you would think they were already in force in a civilised state — but they are not. It is only now proposed to include provisions allowing parents to agree or the court to decide that the child will live alternately with both parents. In the future, the child’s right to see a person who is particularly close to him could be confirmed. It has been quite extraordinary and in the best interests of the child that he has not received one’s parents when it forbids him to meet his grandparents, for example. I believe that this point should now be firmly enshrined in this law at the latest. The child may also have other persons outside the family who are important and dear to him. A parent’s divorce must not break up such relationships. One of the most important aspects of this proposal is, in my view, that in future the parent of a child is obliged to inform the other parent in advance of his or her intention to change his or her place of residence if he or she has an impact on the exercise of the child's care or right of access. Madam President! This government proposal is a step in the right direction. This is precisely the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u191	Mr President! There is a law on child custody and access rights. The Childcare Act has entered into force 35 years ago and has undergone only minor changes prior to this overall reform. The law must live in time, and reforms are necessary. This legislative reform will improve the status and rights of the child. New provisions include the duty of the guardian to protect the child from violence. The committee also confirmed this in the articles of the law. Any violence — physical, mental, child or family violence against a person other than a child — is extremely harmful. The child must be protected from violence at all costs. In addition, as a new provision, the obligation of guardians to maintain close relationships with the child and to contribute to the exercise of rights of access should be introduced. It is proposed to include provisions allowing parents to agree or the court to decide that the child will live alternately with both parents. The new provision is also to strengthen the right of the child to meet a person particularly close to him. This is an important change. For example, a child can meet his grandparents or other people close to him. In order to ensure that the right of access is exercised, various means are proposed, such as the possibility of imposing a penalty payment on a court decision on rights of access under certain conditions. The recognition of shift housing in the Child Care Act clarifies the current state of affairs. Shift housing can support the child’s development and well-being. It promotes and strengthens, in particular, the participation of fathers in the growth and everyday life of children. The committee stresses that the arrangements for the child's residence should be assessed on a case-by-case basis in the best interests of the child. However, as far as shift housing is concerned, the government’s proposal remains half-way. It would be in the best interests of the child to clarify shift living in other legislation as soon as possible. The committee therefore proposes a step forward for adoption so that the government as soon as possible examines and evaluates the effects and the need for change in the legislation on benefits and services and prepares the necessary legislative amendments for the Parliament. The determination of the child’s official residence is relevant to the family, as many services and benefits of society, such as housing allowance and school transport, are carried out according to the child’s official residence. Detachment has also been raised more strongly. The committee stresses the harmfulness of alienation to the child. The aim is to ban all forms of manipulation and other inappropriate influence on the child. These proposals aim to support parents’ understanding that the child’s right to visit is an important issue for the child and that preventing it is harmful to the child. The aim is to secure the right of access with a new opportunity to impose a penalty payment when the right of access is already decided by the court. However, the effectiveness and effectiveness of the proposed measures in practice must be monitored in the future. In difficult situations, families should also be able to receive support and multiprofessional assistance from social services. It is essential to strengthen and develop support for parenthood and relationships and services for divorce situations in order to prevent and resolve prolonged and difficult disputes about maintenance and access rights. The committee also proposes that a ponies statement be adopted to strengthen access to services. Strengthening the child’s involvement is one of the guiding principles of the new law. The proposal proposes a number of legislative measures aimed at improving the right of the child to be heard and to participate in matters relating to him or her in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, the Legal Affairs Committee drew attention to the preparation of periodic reports in the event of resignations. According to a report received by the committee, the reports on conditions and practices vary considerably from one municipality to another. It appears that there is no record at legislative level of the qualifications or training to prepare opinions on child custody and access rights to the court. Municipalities are thus free to consider what skills are needed in the task and to assign tasks to their staff accordingly. Conditional survey work has also been purchased in whole or in part from private service providers. In view of the fact that a study of circumstances requires special professionalism and competence from the authors and that this is a service that is essential for both families and the courts, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers the situation unsatisfactory and unclear. The Committee therefore considers it important that national guidance and training be provided for the conduct of the survey and that the need to set eligibility criteria be assessed. In its report, the committee calls for these measures to be taken. The Legal Affairs Committee carefully examined the reform of the Childcare Act and we heard a number of experts. The report highlights the fact that in everything the best interests of the child are the most important. A parent’s divorce must not break up important and close relationships with a child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u192	Mr President! This bill has already been declared a victory for equality by many, and it is true that parental relations with their children are often also an issue of equality, and it is important to raise this issue. However, the most important thing in this law and the starting point must be the best interests of the child, as the Committee on Legal Affairs has also pointed out in its own report. Making arrangements for the whole maintenance and meeting must be based on the child’s interests — not on the wishes of the parents but on the interests of the child — and this can sometimes be difficult for us adults to see and understand. This bill is good and necessary. The proposal will safeguard the child’s interests and the child’s involvement in matters of parental responsibility and meeting and will bring important reforms to the existing law. The proposal strengthens the rights and position of the child in the family and in the child’s immediate circle and also takes greater account of the different family structures and situations that are more diverse than before. So we come closer to the reality in which our children live in Finland. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore discussed the draft law and gave its opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stated that the best interests of the child should be the primary and most important consideration for all decisions and activities relating to the child. The best interests of the child should therefore be a cross-cutting principle guiding all decisions and activities of the Child Welfare Act, which must always be assessed on a case-by-case basis for each child. It is precisely this principle which, according to my information, has now been a guiding principle for the activities of child overseers, and when, for example, it has been statistically considered how different agreements have been made from the perspective of mothers and fathers, it has not been possible to assess whether there has been a decision at the bottom to favour, for example, mothers or whether there has been a child’s interest at the bottom, in which, for example, it may have been significant and decisive for which parent stays in the family’s common dwelling, which is already familiar to the child. For example, such a factor may have influenced the basis of a child supervisor’s agreement with parents, and it has been difficult for us to interpret it when each decision has already been and must continue to be based on the best interests of the child. The new provision is also the right of the child to meet a person close to him, and such relationships that are important to the child can include, for example, the child’s relationship with his or her siblings or grandparents, and this would also be considered in the best interests of the child. Many grandparents have been saddened when their grandchildren ’ parents have been so inflamed that grandparents have also been excluded from the child’s life when, for example, they have been important to the child before the divorce. And that is why it is also important for parents to realize that in the midst of a dispute, the greatest sufferer is a child if, for example, they prevent meetings from taking place in a situation where a child has already had close relationships. That is why it is important that this, too, is taken into account here and that the present problems and injustices be eliminated. However, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health would like to point out that, in particular situations, the best interests of the child may require that the child’s contact with a person who has become important to him or her is no longer maintained. I would like to say this because we do not, as it were, start to assume that there is always a right to meet. If there are very difficult situations, it may be that, despite the fact that he has already had an important permanent relationship with a person, it is considered that it is not in the best interests of the child. In the Committee's view, the best interests of the child are therefore always ahead of other principles, including the promotion of close relationships and the right of access. In the view of the Committee, the possibility of strengthening the right of access to the child and to a person particularly close to him should therefore be used only when the confirmation of such meetings is considered necessary and justified in the interests of the child in an individual situation. The committee stresses that this is a child's right of access to a loved one, not his right of access to a child. Attention must also be paid to the fact that we are able to safeguard the position of vulnerable children and children who have been subjected to violence, and this requires a great deal of familiarity with the forms and dynamics of post-departure violence and the violence experienced by children. In the expert hearings it became clear that we still have a lot to develop. At the legislative level, shift housing also offers a new option to support a more equitable relationship between the child and both parents through the form of housing. This, too, is not entirely unambiguous, for it is not appropriate to consider shift living as a general rule or as a primary form of child’s residence by default, but to create one alternative way of organising the child’s living in situations to which it applies. The permanence of human relations and the environment is important for the development of a small child. Therefore, rotation must always be considered. Other considerations, including the promotion of equality of parental status, are subservient to the child’s interests, and this must also be taken into account in the choice of shift housing. The child’s interests in relation to housing arrangements may change in the child’s different age and time periods. And therefore, it may be that for a small child it is considered that shift living is not the best option, but when a child grows up, it is already quite different for the child. Therefore, when a child grows up, these housing arrangements should also be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u193	Madam President! A couple of years ago, I spoke to a concerned father who told his own story about custody of children in a divorce situation. During a long telephone conversation, I became quite convinced of the shortcomings of the law in force. In the case of that father, the custody of the child was exercised by the mother, who repeatedly committed violence and heavy use of drugs. The father had tried to do all he could to get his child out of a seemingly terrible situation. In no way had the authorities taken Father’s concern seriously. According to that father’s experience, the authorities primarily went to support the mother in the event of divorce, always discriminating against her father. The more the father tried to protect his child, the more difficult the legal meetings became. Father was despondent and waited for the desirable changes brought about by the new law. The law on child custody, which applies to all children, has now been revised. Many of the improvements my father has called me have been recorded in the law. With this change, we legislators want to send a message to the relevant authorities that both parents can be equal guardians even in the post-divorce situation. The focus of everything is and must be on the best interests of the child and his rights to both parents. With this change, the situation of the contacting father would also change completely. Another major reform is the ban on alienation, even by means of a penalty payment. In the future, the other parent will not have the right to prevent or prohibit the child from meeting both parents. There are far too many examples now of the mother appointed to be a guardian who tries to prevent the child’s father from meeting — a shocking use of power for the child’s growth and development. Such conduct is worth getting out of children’s lives. This, too, would improve the awkward situation of the father who contacted him. The right of the child to be heard and to participate in matters concerning him or her is now strengthened. The child may be confirmed by a court decision to meet a person who is particularly close to him. Even in difficult divorce situations, this will help the situation of children and grandparents or other close relatives, for example. With the reform, shift housing is recognised in the Child Care Act. In this context, the Government should as soon as possible examine and assess the impact of shift housing and the need for change in the legislation on benefits and services, so that it can also succeed in practice. Shift housing eliminates artificial causes to prevent fathers from participating in the life of a divorced child. There is also a desire for a change to this, which will now be taken into account. A change of law in the interests of the child is only one way of increasing social exclusion for young people, and it does not apply only to children in divorce. Many studies have shown that the earlier children’s nausea and social exclusion develop, the more certain children’s growth and development can be supported. The changes now being made to the Childcare Act will have the right effects in order to prevent exclusion, but much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u194	Madam President! This law usually comes into practice when you have a family divorce or divorce in general, and that is not what parents do when they leave for a relationship with hope. This law is an extremely good thing, so it can now be said again at this point that the best interests of the child and the voice of the child will certainly be heard. The last 35 years ago there was a law on this matter, and now it is high time to come here to the 2010s on this matter. There's a lot of good here. Of course, it remains to be done for the next term, including the fact that it is always best for matters of parental responsibility to be settled and negotiated, and this law will further extend the powers of the social committee. It should always be the very last option to refer these cases to the Court of Justice. The law clarifies the situation with regard to shift housing. There are already so many of these families, and so far they have been categorized as remote or immediate parents, but now this law recognises shift housing and joint custody is given the framework provided by the law. But as has already been said here, other laws must also be brought into line with this law with this effort. Equal breeding is of the utmost importance. Therefore, shift housing is a good option and ensures that both parents can thus participate in the child’s life. However, it is good to assess the situation, age and level of development, the nature and tendencies of the child on a case-by-case basis — again in the best interests of the child — in general, the specific needs of the child. Even the distance between parents’ places of residence is essential in this regard as to whether shift living is successful and also the fact that both parents must then be able to take joint responsibility for matters relating to the child. The law also interferes with alienation and underlines the importance of rights of access. The disadvantage of blocking the right of access for the child is also one thing that is highlighted here. Indeed, it remains to be done to bring these services to the level of this law in the next period, and I hope that they will then be taken up immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u195	Madam President! This proposal from the government at second reading is extremely good and worthy of support. We need legislation that safeguards the right of the child to both parents. It goes without saying that a little child misses both his father and his mother. This present world, which we live in, has largely changed over the past 20 to 30 years, so that traditional marriage is no longer really in fashion but is beginning to have more than one of those relationships, and then it leads to children being born, and then we are in a situation where the child is always in the loser's part of the adult world. In this context, Mr President, I would like the adult people, when they live in a relationship and children are born, to bear the responsibility for that parenting themselves. It is quite clear that even if we passed 28 laws in this house on the matter, we will never be able to take that responsibility away from those child’s right parents. Let each child’s parent be responsible for his or her own children and arrange things in such a way that the young child will not suffer in these divorce situations. And I think a significant damage is caused by the child losing the right to his grandparents. I myself have been in this honorable grandfather's office for three years and I have seen how dear grandchildren are, and I can assure you from a short experience that I think that office is the best thing I've ever had in my life to play with grandchildren. If this connection is broken, the child’s loss will be enormous. I would like the adult people themselves to take on a much better responsibility for their own lives in this regard. No matter how many laws we legislate here, we will never be able to pass that responsibility on to law, parliament or various municipal authorities, but the responsibility must be borne by ourselves at the moment that life is living. All of us should remember that that little child is the most innocent of all, and he certainly deserves the love of his parents and the love of his grandparents. Then let these personal passions and other goals not cloud this little person’s life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u196	Mr President! This proposal is a piece of legislation that nobody wishes to apply but which is necessary, and it is very good that the law is now coming into force. This will safeguard, in particular, the rights of the child, but also the position of both parents in the event of divorce. This will prevent, unfortunately, frequent alienation, clarify and create a legal basis for e.g. shift living in situations where shift living would be in the best interests of the child but the parents would not be able to agree with each other. In those circumstances, the court may, if necessary, decide on a rotational arrangement if, in that case, it is in the best interests of the child. This law specifically improves children’s rights in divorce situations by safeguarding not only parents but also other close relationships in a difficult divorce situation. A child can also be guaranteed the right to meet people who are particularly close to him after a divorce. In practice, as Mr Hoskonen has just mentioned, this is most often applicable in the event that the child’s right and desire to meet his grandparents, for example, would not otherwise be fulfilled. Mr President! Relationships, cohabiting marriages or marriages, at least hopefully, are made on the basis of feelings, but especially marriage is also, to a great extent, a legal and economic union. For example, issues related to wealth in the event of divorce have already been regulated fairly comprehensively in our legislation. It is even a little surprising that, until now, the most important thing, the position of our children and the future and the right to important human relations in the event of divorce, has not been set precisely. I am therefore very pleased that this law, which has been adopted specifically in the interests of the child, strengthens the rights of children, is now being finalised. It is good that the rights of the child to the most important people are now finally being strengthened by legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u197	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen said in some way that each parent has a responsibility and we will never be able to ensure it by law, as it were, and that is true. Sadly, many children who do not see their parents because parents, mothers, or fathers do not want to see their children at all are excluded from this law. That group of children in this country is far too large and we cannot force it. It's where the parent takes responsibility himself. In the previous speech, I have not yet said that it is precisely this change in shift living that is now going to be half-way. It becomes a problem because in the future the child can only live in one home, one address, as it were, officially, and in that case the regulation of the benefits and services related to shift housing will be half-empty. This regulation should therefore be brought into line with the situation of shift housing as a matter of urgency, in order to ensure that the legislation gives equal support to parenthood when it is considered to be in the best interests of the child. The knowledge base necessary for this drafting of legislation should be identified and clarified without delay. Therefore, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has tabled statements requiring the Government to bring the benefits of shift housing and the regulation of services into line with the situations of shift housing as a matter of urgency, in order to ensure that the legislation gives equal support to parenthood when it is considered to be in the best interests of the child. The second draft statement is also important, and I would also like to say this out loud: ‘The Council of State shall instruct the Council of State to adopt the proposed act as a child on the principle of the interpretation of all decisions and activities. In addition, the guidance should take into account changes affecting the child’s best interests in the child’s circumstances.” With this in mind, the committee wanted to emphasise and in many ways underline that every actor understands that the best interests of the child are the most important aspect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u198	Mr President! The essence of this legislative amendment is that the child has the right to his/her parents, the child’s best interests are the most important and the child has the right to meet people close to him/her. It is essential that both parents are equal when the family situation is examined, and this should be taken into account, for example, in the condition report. Their quality will have to be invested in the future. Representative In his speech, the column raised the issue of contact with the child’s father in a situation in which the child’s situation has been wronged by the child’s father when settling the child’s situation and deciding on custody. I myself have received a number of such contacts, and I really hope that this bill will be sufficient to bring about improvements. The big question is whether this will help the most difficult divorce disputes. That is why I think it is very important for the committee to propose that the functioning of the legislative package be monitored and that we accept the commitment that the government should closely monitor the implementation and impact of the reform of the Child Welfare Act, paying particular attention to, inter alia, the use of more extensive arrangements for the custody, housing and meeting of children and the powers of social authorities, the functioning of shift housing and the effectiveness of means of preventing alienation and other rights of access. This law introduces shift housing as a term, although the fact is that it is already very common, and in Sweden, for example, it has long been the main rule. It is in the best interests of the child that the distribution of benefits and services related to shift housing should be examined in an equal manner as a matter of urgency. In fact, these are the issues that tend to cause disputes and crises in families. There is a need for support and understanding in divorce families. The situation is challenging for both parents and children. There are shortcomings and differences in the availability of services between municipalities. Representative Salonen also raised the point that it is sad that there are also situations in which a parent does not want to meet his child or take responsibility for him. They're very tragic. It is essential to understand that it is in the best interests of a child to have effective relationships with the people he loves. The amendment also allows grandparents to apply for access rights for the child. Many times grandparents are big in the child’s life, and if a child is prevented from meeting his grandparents in the event of a divorce, it is very harmful to the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u199	Mr President! Rääkkylä is a small municipality in North Karelia, has about 2,400 inhabitants, and the population is constantly decreasing, but Rääkkylä has understood very well the divorce children and the fact that the divorce is never the child's fault. In the municipal council of Rääkkylä, families who are divorced have been given the possibility that if their parents live in the same municipality after the divorce, the child will receive a school ride from both parents’ residences. I would hope that such an opportunity would also be given to divorced children in other municipalities in Finland. At least no law forbids it, and the small town of Rääkkylä, although poor, is able to pay for these school rides from both parents’ homes. Hopefully, we can also do it elsewhere in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u200	Mr President! Divorce is always a crisis. It is a crisis for both married or unmarried couples and for children, and in the midst of this crisis, families would need help. Unfortunately, divorce services around Finland are still weak. They have improved, for example, in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in recent years, but in view of the situation in Finland as a whole, separation services are non-existent in relation to the need that people would have. In this context, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also dealt with the parenting plan, which is a tool worked on by the Lappe project, in which the parenting plan is intended as a tool for post-divorce parenthood. The plan is intended to help parents to discuss and agree on children’s daily lives and the division of work so that parents know what they are responsible for and what is expected of them. However, this parenting plan is not a legal document. It is often the case when we talk about alienation that there is a situation in which there is a very inflamed difference, and in that situation all the problems are left entirely alone, very alone. Sometimes the situation may be so bad that there is even a need for child welfare help, but quite often it is as if trying to deal with the situation or fight back, and the child there is the one who is suffering. Whenever there is a situation where the phenomenon resembles alienation, I also think it is a serious threat to the best interests of the child and an inflamed situation that must be tackled immediately. The University of Lapland pointed out in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that the information of the social welfare, health and judicial authorities, in particular, on these very challenging post-deviation situations, such as post-deviation violence and persecution, has proved inadequate. At worst, the fact that professionals do not recognise the dynamics of sexual violence and do not know the principles of the law, thus misinterpreting family situations and their own possibilities to help, allows for the unintended structural violence and victim and child abuse of those who are not aware of violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u201	Mr President! It is a good thing that these matters of parental responsibility are brought up to date in legislation, but it is also worth taking into account, in this context, what is the status of the child in the world of these free relations when it comes to divorce. Well, this law is in the process of strengthening the child’s right to both parents — a good thing. But it should be remembered that when married spouses have children and then it becomes so bad that one of the parents dies, the married widow has the right to a widow’s pension from her deceased spouse and children have the right to a pension from their father or mother until the age of 18 on the grounds that the father and mother share children. This right does not exist for cohabiting persons. And with the aim of living in a free relationship today, many people miss the fact that there is no family pension right for cohabiting couples, and this is the worst loss of EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u202	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-13-ps-130.u203	Mr President! In the course of the examination of the amendment to the Rescue Act, the expert hearing of the committee found that Article 57(1) of the Rescue Act could be interpreted as meaning, for example, that the rescue service’s full-time fire inspectors, who do not have the required rescue qualification as required by the regulations, cannot be used for rescue support tasks, e.g. in situation and management centres. With the reports from the committee, the committee points out that the article provides for eligibility for the post or post referred to therein. If, for example, the post of fire inspector includes participation in rescue operations, a qualification is required to enable him to be appointed to that post. On the other hand, there are no legal obstacles to being involved in support tasks, for example at the management centre. According to the opinion of the committee, the current provision of Article 57(1) of the Rescue Act does not preclude, for example, the participation of a full-time fire inspector or other personnel, such as a vehicle manager or a paramedic in a multi-professional unit, in rescue operations or in the management of related support activities in the event of a practical rescue operation. According to the study, existing legislation does not actually prevent the appropriate use of staff for different tasks. The unclear situation in the committee, which came from the expert consultation and from the hearing of the ministry's expert, has been very well-opened since then in this committee's report. The committee also notes that the provision of Article 57(2) of the Rescue Act does not preclude multi-professional cooperation. Paramedics whose duties do not include participation in rescue activities shall not be required for the appointment of a post or post when they participate in rescue activities within the meaning of Article 57(1). The Rescue Act does not provide for the eligibility of a person occupying a multi-professional unit. In addition, the committee has stated that a possible change in the eligibility criteria for rescue services staff will require a broader study than it is possible to do in this context in the parliamentary procedure, but it is hoped that these open entries, which have now been made in committee in this report, will be sufficient to put an end to this unclear and controversial situation in practice as well.
