ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended yesterday at the plenary session on 18 September 2018. The debate is now continuing at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 3 to 17 July. on the subject. So now the debate continues. We have ministers here, and Prime Minister Sipilä will begin, please. And the introductions are also five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u2	Mr President! Yesterday I said that in the context of the budget debate, the government stated that it was achieving its ambitious economic objectives. The debt-to-GDP ratio has already fallen. Finland's tax rate has not risen, it has fallen. The point for indebtedness will be in the framework of calculation accuracy next year, but in central government finances we still have a lot of work to do. In practice, we have already achieved our ambitious employment targets. The employment rate is currently the best in about 30 years. We are also on the right track to bridge the sustainability gap. The strategic government programme has proved its worth. The results will come when clear objectives are set and they will be pursued with determination and humility. For example, the employment rate target for this government has not been a number among numbers, but it has been closely monitored and has been accompanied by dozens and dozens of individual measures to promote employment. Mr President! The Government decided to step up the protection of the Baltic Sea and inland waterways in order to improve their condition. For the protection of the Baltic Sea and inland waterways, a total of EUR 45 million will be launched for three years, the first part of which will receive an additional EUR 15 million for 2019. During this period we have also developed budgeting and indicators for sustainable development. I am proud that, for the first time, we have been able to get sustainable development assessments centrally into the budget book. It's a tough one, by the way. This is the start of getting other important indicators alongside GDP. It is quite clear that gross domestic product and various indicators of growth do not measure well-being adequately. We are now working to ensure that in the next government programme this issue is even longer. The Government’s National Agenda 2030 implementation focuses on carbon neutral and resource wise Finland. The draft budget will contribute to the objectives of carbon neutrality and resource wisdom by a total of around EUR 1.7 billion. Clearly, the main measures are the implementation of the energy and climate strategy and the medium-term climate policy plan, as well as bioeconomy and cleantech solutions. Mr President! In addition to knowledge, growth and employment, the main components of the 2019 budget are entrepreneurship and Finnish food production. It must have been a surprise to many that a family member of an entrepreneur who does not own a business is not currently entitled to unemployment benefit. Now we are going to put this right. The status of a non-owner family member is changed from an entrepreneur to an employee. Entrepreneurs have been waiting for this reform for years. We also decided on major measures to safeguard Finnish food production. The profitability of agriculture has been weak for a long time. Last night I met representatives of agriculture. We discussed sustainable solutions to this problem. The government has also asked for them from Mount Counsellor Reijo Karhinen. It was decided that some of the actions he had proposed should already be put into the budget debate. Karhinen's work continues. Mr President! A strategic government programme and strategic objectives are also needed for the next parliamentary term. Big strategic goals keep the goals of the coalition government bright, and everyone knows where we are going. I therefore hope that all parties will once again prepare their own strategic government programme. I believe that there must be at least 100,000 new jobs on that list and, for example, the reform of basic security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u3	Then we'll start the debut. I would ask those who wish to ask further questions or comments to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u4	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, we all welcome the fact that the economy is growing and employment is improving. It's no use arguing about who it is. It is good that this has happened and that it is going to happen for a long time, I hope. But, Prime Minister Sipilä, you yourself have often talked about the fact that the platform economy and technological development are challenging Finnish society and demanding solutions that will survive in the future. It is important for the SDP that even in the 2030s, Finns can be confident that the economy will grow, employment will improve and sustainable development will also be achieved here in Finland. The question is, why have you not such big future investments put in motion now in this last budget? This would have been an opportunity to build the entire educational path for the 2030s from early childhood education onwards, as suggested by the SDP. The social security reform could also have been introduced during this parliamentary term. These would have been important things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u5	Mr President! Indeed, the economy is growing and exports are pulling, the wheels are spinning. Yesterday it was said in the debate that it is confusing that, in the midst of all these good figures, it is clear here that the disposable income of one in three Finns next year will be reduced compared to this year, i.e. one in three and related to government activities. And this information is not from me. It's from the Treasury. It is disconcerting that the income of one third of people, especially those on low incomes, will be falling next year. Now I'm going to ask if there's anything wrong with this government's social justice policy when this kind of thing is possible. Has the government spoken about this matter that we should reverse the course so that this economic good will become something for all our citizens, and not that the lowest-income ones will receive less money next year than this year?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u6	Mr President! I would like to continue with that observation by Mr Heinäluoma that the Government ordered a programme from liquidator Juho Saare to reduce inequality. However, the final result for the government is that the lowest-income population loses in this budget. Now the question is: has this report been read, has it been understood, has any action been taken? At least the practice looks different. Moreover, it seems amazing that when this budget book already states that growth will halve this year and slow down in the following year, the big five reforms proposed by the SDP are needed: free second stage by extending compulsory education, early childhood education reform, family leave reform, social security reform and incentive tax reform. Instead, 0.2% of the total amount of this budget is tinkered with in this budget. So if the family had EUR 50000
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u7	Chairman of the Committee on Finance, represented by Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u8	Mr President! The strategy of this government was first to stabilise Finland's economy and create opportunities such as those that will then have the opportunity to reform and improve basic security. Had it been done as the opposition demands, we would not only have 30 % but 100 % of the people who would have lost their income. So I ask Prime Minister Sipilä: now that the economy has been stabilised, what kind of economic growth and employment will be needed in the next parliamentary term in order to significantly improve basic security and to improve the position of these people who depend on this security? What should the employment rate be, what should economic growth and how much productivity be improved over the next four years in order to respond to this call?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u9	Mr President! It is really great that the economy has been brought into this model, where it is now. And now would have been an excellent opportunity to invest in the future in such a way that, in this last budget of yours, there would have been a fair investment in education, research and innovation. Do you think, Prime Minister, that this investment in education and research is an investment? If so, why has it not really been invested in now that there is some room for manoeuvre? On the other hand, we have an enormous number of young people who have been left behind — those who have been left behind. What is the line by which the government intends to involve the people, the young Finns who have been left out of this development of society, so that they are indeed included and not left for decades to spend,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u10	Madam President! First of all, the issue of agriculture, which has become a very topical issue this summer, which the Prime Minister has already mentioned as a problem of profitability. Now that it has been decided, quite rightly, to support those who are in particular difficulties because of the crop damage, I would like to ask: are you convinced in the government that those measures are being targeted correctly? If one of the measures is to return EUR 20 million as energy tax refunds from 2018, how will it help those farmers who have been badly hit by crop damage but who have made a progressive transition to renewable energy, such as biogas? After all, these farmers do not receive a refund at all. Above all, the government has not taken the fight against climate change seriously enough. Why, for example, has this government not taken cuts in business subsidies that have been found to be harmful and ineffective for hundreds of millions of euros and transfer them to effective climate measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u11	Mr President! The delegation from the Committee on Finance was in the Commission last week, among other things, and the Commission was very concerned about a number of issues. First of all, when R & D expenditures go up elsewhere, we have them down. While the number of graduates in the age group 30-34 remains in place, elsewhere it has improved by almost 10%. Also, according to OECD studies, the competence of schoolchildren has fallen by many indicators. And once this employment rate has risen, and that is a good thing, it must be pointed out, however, that our employment rate has increased less than the average in the EU countries in recent years. In other words, should not this budget, Prime Minister, address these concerns of the Commission and invest in knowledge, education, research and product development in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u12	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är Jättebra att sysselsättningen blir bättre, och manniskor är det är fler som får jobb. Men en sak som folk inte är nöjda med är det att man nu med den ox regeringen i spetsen har gått åt de mindre sjukhusen, och också centralsjukhusen. Vista av dem jobbar för sin existens i dag. Det auri på grund av den centraliseringsiver som regeringen har haft.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u13	Mr President! Although employment has indeed improved, it has deteriorated in the weakest groups of the population. The government has taken steps to get people to work, they call them Active Model One and Active Model Two. However, if, despite their desire and efforts, people do not find a job or receive measures that would help them to get a job, they will be deprived of the opportunity to live, cut subsidies. Now I would particularly like to ask Minister Lintilä, on your side, when the new jobs should and should be created, whether you will be able to offer the government such jobs or show these unemployed that the government is involved in this matter and will help people to achieve the goals of the active model number one and number two? Then we would certainly be able to cut unemployment in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u14	Madam President! Only by working will this country eventually meet the challenges of the future. Employment has been strengthened and there are many jobs at the moment, but the skills and jobs of the unemployed do not meet, and it is good that this knowledge is now being strengthened by both continuing training and retraining, so that everyone can get a job when, at the moment, all our regions are free of these jobs. I would like to thank the government for finally putting this issue of social security for the members of the family of entrepreneurs in order. It's been a big problem for a lot of entrepreneurship families. I would also like to thank you for raising skills and education to one more point, and in fact, research and knowledge were targeted at the biggest single additional effort in the budget debate. It's about this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u15	Mr President! The Prime Minister called on all parties to reform their electoral programmes on basic security, and this is important because we all know that there is an incentive problem in Finnish social security. In addition, Finnish social security is difficult to understand. Each government has increased and reduced benefits, bound indices and frozen indices according to the current economic situation, election promises and citizen feedback. This has led to the fact that applying for aid and granting benefits constitute a rather bureaucratic process for society. The Christian Democrats propose a new model that would replace the fragmentation of basic security and increase incentives for work. The current support system for people of working age and able to work should provide a clear and simple single support system. KD's got one of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u16	Madam President! After all, this is very strange: 100,000 new jobs are being created, and yesterday the opposition even complained that Finland is the happiest country in the world, which is also a problem for the opposition. The people know that Finland is the happiest country in the world, and they also know that more than 100,000 new jobs have been created. If it is someone's fault, it is this government's fault, because the opposition has certainly not been able to influence it, Mr Rinne. We really do not have to argue about it, because it may be thanks to the government, but it certainly is not thanks to the opposition. Representative Heinäluoma raised this assessment by the Ministry of Finance. This has to do with indirect taxation, an increase in the tax on tobacco. Is it the Social Democrats' line that the tobacco tax should not be increased so that it can be said that the income gap between the three lowest deciles will not increase as a result? This is arbitrary use of statistics, Mr Heinäluoma. That's what you could expect from SAK, but I wouldn't have expected from you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u17	Mr President! I see that Mr Elo has taken quite literally what the Minister of Finance, Orpo, said yesterday. After all, he gave little indication that this was actually due to the tobacco tax. But, Congressman Elo, it's not. It's not the tobacco tax. When you look at those calculations from the Ministry of Finance, they show that the two main factors are income support and national pensions, your index freeze. On the wrong grounds, those who smoke are being blamed. I would also like to point out that, fortunately, one third of the Finnish people do not smoke.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u19	Mr President! Had the present government continued along the previous government’s lines, we would be in Greece’s way. During the previous government, 100,000 unemployed, and this Ringe appeal that we should have continued with the SDP, would have meant that we would have taken on more debt, more and more, and that would have been a disaster, above all for children and young people. The fact that 120,000 jobs have been created in Finland means that between 300 and 400,000 Finns feel better, both mentally and economically, in every way positive. It should also be pointed out that the fact is that a strong economy is the best protection for the poor and people receiving income transfers. It is the best security, and it has therefore been absolutely necessary for the government to put the foundations of the economy in order. Now we can look to the future. I hope the SDP has a little vision of the future too, not just more money here and there. Finland will not succeed in the future and Finland will not succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u20	Mr President! It is strange that a central government cuts basic security so that one third of the population loses their income, and it is precisely the weakest third from the point of view of livelihood. I would like to say to you, Mr Rantakangas, that it is worth exploring the future programme of the SDP. The 2030 Skills Path describes how to invest in knowledge, research, product development, raise back and restore the honour of education and research. These are key issues that can be dealt with in the future. We also need social security reform. The Prime Minister is quite right that it is good if all parties have views on the development of basic security in the next parliamentary term, but you still lack it, Mr Rantakangas. Where is the central model for this basic security reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u21	Mr President! It's a very different mood than it was four years ago. It's a different mood. After all, that was when the election took place in such a way that every party was thinking about their own cutting and saving lists. Even there on the left you made proposals on what you need to be cut off from, but you have nevertheless been somewhat opposed to all the savings here. But the situation then was that we had to think about what we were saving from. Now Finland is in quite another condition, in another condition. There is even little room for discussion now on how to improve things, which could be given a little more effort, and in a very different spirit we can discuss in the forthcoming elections. And it has not come by itself, Mr President, but it has required difficult savings, major reforms, but the result is quite good. You say what you say, but Finland is in a much better condition: employment is growing, the economy is growing, debt is under control. It's not like it was four years ago. You can blame the government, but it's that crew, and this crew has done something right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u22	Mr President! Here the representatives of the government parties repeat that strong government finances are the best friend of the poor. But obviously there is not such a good economic situation that the government is prepared to take care of social justice. We are now in the middle of a boom, according to economists, and yet you continue to maintain the indexation of social security. How do you justify this to the low incomes in Finland? It is social justice that is the main difference between the opposition and the government. We have repeatedly argued that it would be possible to make a policy of equality, including within the parameters of the existing budget, by making different value choices than the government has done. The most affected by this policy are the low-income Finns who are not working: the long-term unemployed and the national pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u23	Madam President! Indeed, the honourable opposition would have to think about how many hundreds of thousands of people have risen above the poverty line, have been able to work, and how much it has affected the lives of everyone and their family members. In fact, I warmly recommend that you also listen to those actions of the rest of the government. A lot of good reforms have been carried out. If just a few days ago you were looking at the analysis from where this economy has come from, it has been the kiky agreement that has started to move, turning the course. More action is now being taken with regard to family members. Now, perhaps, action is also being taken on the incentive package for employment, in relation to small companies, for easier recruitment. Member of Parliament Rinne said that when the reform of social security is carried out, we will see the effects over time that the reform of social security will have. I would have asked whether we should not do this labour market reform in the same way. If things go well and there are more jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u24	Mr President! I do want to thank the Prime Minister for one thing, and that is that this sustainable development is reflected in this budget. I believe that the cooperation with the Committee on the Future has made this possible for its part — right? At least that's what I think. But there is still a lot to do from the point of view of sustainable development. It should be mainstreamed in such a way that, for example, the welfare economy, which is part of sustainable development, would not only be a matter for the STM, as it now seems to be a little in that budget book, but would have been taken into account in all other ministries. The aim should be for sustainable development to be part of all legislation, every single bill that comes here in Parliament. In my opinion, this is not yet happening. We need a much clearer idea of sustainable development in the assessment of legislation. Do you agree with this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u25	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma, I have not been as familiar with these figures from the VM, but it is quite clear that when you mention income support, its index has not been frozen. In other words, those who depend on income support have received index increases. Then, on the price of tobacco: it is quite clear that if the price of tobacco were reduced, what you apparently demanded, it would improve the low income part of the situation. Besides, you had the wrong percentage of the number of smokers, but let's not go there. Mr Rinne, Mrs Harakka, you are also calling for social security reform. Have you not heard that the project is going on, that it is going on, and that it is going to be your representative, too? And then, Mr Rinne, yesterday I asked where your concept of democracy came from when you feel that the government should not interfere in legislation concerning working life. You didn't answer yesterday. Now's your chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u26	Madam President! Mr Kaikonen gave a wonderful speech. He accelerated himself to such spheres that, at the end of the day, he probably wept at his own speech and gave himself a standing applause.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u27	Mr President! In this budget proposal for 2019, the Government will continue with the same consistent and balanced line it has chosen. Exports are now doing well, and Finland’s competitiveness vis-à-vis competing countries has clearly improved, and more and more people have been able to get away with the work. It is a miracle that the left-wing parties are not at all happy about this here. The basic security has been kept in reasonable condition even in this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u30	Mr President! The government is talking about an important issue: improving employment. Still, I don't see any stakes in being able to move after a job. Housing increases, the heating fuel tax is increased. Mobility is not made easier because fuel tax is not counted, although it was promised that if it rises from a barrel of over $80, it will be counted — nothing is heard. What about road maintenance, how do people get to work there? These are indirect issues that directly affect how people work and move. What do you intend to answer these promises, and why do you not invest in these matters? Yesterday, there was still no answer to the question of how you intend to act, when in 2017–2019, asylum costs and integration costs alone amount to 1.4 billion, i.e. the same amount as next year's debt. What are you going to do now? You have reported that you are prepared for 4,000 new people. Action, please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u31	Let us take four replies at this stage, then perhaps two ministers' replies, if necessary, and then resume the debate. These four people are Torvinen, Wallin, Essayah and Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u32	Madam President! When you listen to this hall, you cannot understand what is coming from that country in Finland. The left is crying as if Finland were in the worst state. [Interjection] — — — — If you read the papers, you can't figure it out. — I have traveled around 80 places, I have been in the East, the West, the North and the South, and there is a positive voice everywhere. People are happy, people are happy, jobs are available, and all that left-wing outcry is a product of pure populism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u33	Mr President! The Digital Europe programme for 2021 to 2027 is interesting to read, and I know that this is currently under discussion in both the VNK and TEAM and the LVM and so on. Digitalisation, robotisation, artificial intelligence are all these megatrends that challenge our society, its structures, but also the labour market, for example. Jobs are leaving, but new ones are also emerging, and this favourable development can be promoted by investing enough in research and development. In this area, the Government's objective is to reach a 4% GDP level by 2030. This pace seems too slow. In the opinion of the RKP, this objective should be achieved as early as 2025 in order to keep Finland involved in this development — and preferably in the front line to which we belong. Prime Minister and Government, in what way this robotization, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, favourable development, R & D, this entity,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u34	Madam President! Indeed, working life is becoming much more diverse from eight to four rhythms, and today there are many people who are doing part-time entrepreneurship and are partly in employment doing assignments. We've started talking about entrepreneurship. Of course, there is a risk here of whether social security and also pension security will be taken care of. And when you look at these so-called light entrepreneurs, there are quite a few of them who spend their income a month on the 1000 euros, on the reels. Unfortunately, Mr Lindström now left for some time in that corridor, but I would have liked to have heard from the government how to respond to this challenge. We have an increasing number of people who are engaged in this type of multifaceted employment, and it is a little annoying and frightening that young people may not understand that this pension provision is accumulated over a long period of time and that social security may be incomplete. I would have liked to have heard how we are responding to this new challenge of this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u35	Then, Mr Rinne, and then the Prime Minister begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u36	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, I would like to say that, because of education, we both know how the constitution works and how it should be assessed and respected. I have a lot of respect for the constitution. But at the same time I would like to say that we have had a long tradition in Finnish society: especially in labour market matters, things are being prepared on a tripartite basis. The contractual society has been the key success factor by which Finland has emerged from the slave labour, from the beginning of the 20th century, to this situation where we are at the moment. The experience of the early 20th century has shown us that it is worth seeking compromises by agreeing, in the right way, to prepare with everyone involved. This government has acted unilaterally in terms of compulsory laws, cuts in unemployment benefits. We are now taking unilateral steps forward to reduce the level of employment security. They're things I don't approve of. In my opinion, tripartite preparation of these matters is a sensible, correct way, and that is what I meant when I said that the shoemaker should remain in his place. The Constitution must be respected. We all do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u37	Then there are the answers, and at least the Prime Minister wishes to receive a reply. Up to 3 minutes at this point, then there's a follow-up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u38	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, this tripartite preparation: it has also been a rather long-standing preparation, and now we have to understand that no party has the right to veto, but we have to move forward. During this term of government, dozens and dozens of measures have been taken to promote employment, which, as individual measures, have been underestimated in this Chamber. But if 80 operations are carried out and each of them has an average employment impact of 1000, they will become 80,000 employment effects. That is what we have done. We have done big things and a large number of smaller things that have taken the matter forward and appear in the results. Who's to blame — it doesn't matter when we get here. It is quite clear that if we were not in these chapters, at least the address to whose fault it would be would be quite clear. What progress should be made from now on in order to create more room for manoeuvre in the budget? It should be pointed out that even in this budget, EUR 1.4 billion is still in debt, indeed at the peak of the economic cycle. Of course, we would be in a completely different situation if that initial situation had not been so bad that we started. About EUR 100 million will be invested in education, research, product development, Business Finland, the Academy of Finland. We must reverse this trend: we have had a declining trend in product development investment in relation to GDP for about 10 years. It will now be translated by these decisions. This is how we estimate that when the private sector joins it in a normal relationship, this will change, and then we will go towards that 4% mentioned by Wallin. Is 2030 too slow? If we can keep up with the 75% employment rate next season, with an increase of around 2%, then the budget should be able to invest in these investments, there should be room for social justice, there must be provision for social reform, there must be provision for family leave reform. But that requires that we adhere now to this speed, where we are at the moment. We have always exceeded the Ministry of Finance's forecast for the next year's growth, and that is a good line. But I believe that this kind of 3-percent growth rate is unrealistic in a long run. We can make a 2% increase, but it's not born by itself. We need to work on it. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen, the sustainable development indicator must be brought deeper into the budgeting process. I agree with that. The second thing that is lacking in our budgeting process is the more rational use of state assets, that is, the balance sheet. During this parliamentary term, the value of central government's company assets has grown by around EUR 8.5 billion. We could afford to use it for research, product development and infrastructure, for example, as long as we agree on a model. There have not yet been such models, but I hope that we will find a model for the next parliamentary term for how we can better use the State's assets for these future investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u39	Good. Thank you. — Minister Tiilikainen, up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u40	Thank you, Mr President. A few comments on climate policy and sustainable development. The European Union is making the world's most ambitious climate policy. Finland has the second highest current level of renewable energy within the EU and the second highest target, we have the second highest emission reduction percentage. From this one might conclude that Finland is definitely among the most ambitious countries in the world. And that reasoning is quite right, and this is also the case in international assessments. I am sad that the Greens do not have the guts to admit these acts: renewable to more than 50%, decarbonisation, we have increased fossil energy taxes by 250 million in this parliamentary term, next year the tax on coal, fuel oil, peat will rise. As far as this sustainable development is concerned, social sustainability is too often forgotten when it comes to sustainable development. Employment is an important part of it. The previous government deserves recognition for raising unemployment benefit. But this government is doing even more: we are offering jobs. What we cannot thank the previous government for socially is that when you talked about raising basic security, you did raise unemployment benefit but did not raise the lowest maternity, paternity and parental allowances, and that is irresponsible family policy. That is why, in the name of sustainable development, next year we will be raising these very minor benefits, as we have also done with the guarantee pension. Government practices both in environmental terms
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u41	We'll be back for about an hour to finish this debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u42	Madam President! Sustainable development is an important issue and it is good that we talk about it. I would like to raise two points of view: The first is that if we want to safeguard prosperity and economic growth in the future too, we must definitely invest in research, science and education. And even though repairs have now been made, the nearly one billion in education that has been taken away during this reign is still running out. I would like to hear your thoughts on how you think that Finland's education policy is moving forward on this path to the future if and now, for example, these subsidies and funding provided to Business Finland and others are mainly channelled through the private sector. So I am concerned, for example, about basic funding for universities and how we can secure future jobs by securing quality research. I would also like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: what is your position on the fact that, according to the follow-up report of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, our emissions are, on the contrary, threatening to increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u43	Mr President! In this context, it must be noted that the Bible account of the rich man and Lazarus is very commonplace today for many Finns. A rich man wears linen and lives gloriously and enjoys this economic growth today — is that not so? But similarly, the poor, who is often also very ill, would like to feed himself even with the crumbs that fall from the rich one’s table to the floor, but they are not to be enjoyed. The account of this example: the food queues are that Lazarus and the rich man is this government. You in the government know what you were doing last Christmas, when this Christmas money was being distributed, which is also being distributed this Christmas: you did not even give that one million to the people who wanted to help these lasers in those food queues. And now I appeal to you: When this fall comes, now give a little of that bread to the Lazarus. Share it also with those organizations that help these poor people. They are not yet able to catch up with this economic growth and that is why we are here to help them together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u45	Mr President! We do, of course, recognise the improved employment situation and the improved economic situation, of course. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u46	Madam President! There has been a great deal of talk here that nothing has been invested in education in this budget, but I do now think it is a very good investment in research and innovation of EUR 120 million. And then, of course, it is now on this path that that 4% will be reached in the future. You can't get everything at once, but I'm sure it's the right direction. Then I very much welcome this equality fund for early childhood education, which specifically improves the quality of early childhood education, particularly in areas with relatively more social problems. And that support for learning materials is also an excellent start in supporting those most vulnerable people who simply do not have enough money for all the learning tools. That, too, is a good start. There's a lot of good things here that you might want to see.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u47	Madam President! Yes, it is really good news for Finns that new jobs have been created in Finland. The number of Finns in Lahti has been given a job. It is good that the government has been working despite opposition from the opposition to all measures aimed at creating new jobs. I encourage the Prime Minister to continue his work. And the goal can only be the Nordic employment rate when we want to maintain a Nordic welfare society. In the government negotiations, we agreed to promote the employment of part-time workers as a top priority. We have an innumerable number of disabled people who would like to work without access to the labour market. So I ask the Prime Minister: when will we get further action in this regard to ensure that people with disabilities have access to the labour market? They have equal rights to work. To the social democrats, I would like you to be able to say this now: you have long talked about the cost of secondary education — spoken, spoken. You've had one Minister of Education after another, you've done nothing. Here comes the educational material supplement for under 20-year-olds
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u48	Mr President! I would like to continue the debate on this labour market situation. If you think about the operation of this government right from the start, then at first there were 100 hours more working hours already in government confessions without compensation. Then came the coercive laws, where there was no common preparation. You tried to impose laws on Parliament, which stated that employment security would be undermined in this way if there were no agreements. Then, as far as the unemployed are concerned, despite the fact that you have agreed with the social partners that there will be no reforms to the labour market without tripartite preparation and a common vision, you have constantly brought proposals to Parliament and now these last weakenings relating to employment security. You withdrew the deadline for those under thirty years because it was immediately declared unconstitutional. You've increased the tension. I have talked a lot with business, with people from big companies, small companies, and it is appreciated that there is predictable stability in the global economy in the labour market. Now you yourself have caused major problems of predictability and stability in the labour market through your own actions, the actions of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u49	Madam President! I hope, however, that when I get to be in Parliament for the sixth time, the next parliamentary term and the next parliamentary term will be such that it will not destroy the development of the economic improvement of this period and, in part, of the previous period. I have not yet seen a time in this country when the money is sufficient for all the needs — regardless of who is in the government or the opposition. It has to be said, in the name of the general truth, that next year's budget for this government will be a budget for overgeneration. It looks far beyond what was suggested in yesterday's debate, for example. The assessment of sustainable development, carbon neutral and resource wise Finland, where Minister Tiilikainen was well lacking in his speech, are among the factors that lead us forward. Then we need a social welfare reform, and that is where we will be able to achieve the savings in the sustainability gap, even with the treatment of individual diseases and the technology of health care moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u50	Mr President! When we talk about the big picture of the economy, we talk quickly about the sustainability gap. It has become clear here that the government continues to trust that the government's social welfare reform will bring savings of EUR 3 billion in the long term. The problem now, however, is that no financial expert believes in this goal of saving, and if the government has read the opinion of the Committee on Finance, then the government too should have woken up to this reality, that is to say, these estimates, which are in this budget book, are very loosely based. It is good that you are having a debate among yourselves, Ministers, but I would like to see an answer to this important question now, because yesterday the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, did not want to answer this question: In what way does the government calculate that the social welfare reform will bring these savings of EUR 3 billion in the future, when the economic experts in this country are completely different and that this House, too, to a large extent disagrees? Where the government
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u51	Mr President! As far as our debate is concerned, Mr Heinäluoma has to say that the Gini coefficient will, however, even improve with these government budgetary measures, and I am not talking about the liberalisation of the alcohol law on this issue. Mr Arhinmäki has also raised the issue of taxation once again. At that time I witnessed a rare moment when the socialist held hands in his own pocket, Mr Arhinmäki. We clearly disagree completely over and over again. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u52	Mr President! Under all circumstances, whether we live for fat or thin years, we must ensure that the common good is distributed fairly. It is even a characteristic of humanity that every decision maker should have. Yes, this government has been on the side of the most vulnerable in this draft budget. The minimum daily allowance is increased by 80 euros, the sickness allowance's allowance, 55 days' allowance, leaving the low-income group, becomes the upper secondary school material supplement. On the other hand, if allocative index revisions had been returned, this would have meant an average of EUR 8. Yes, EUR 80 is more than EUR 8; for the most low incomes it is big money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u53	Mr President! The increase in these minimum daily allowances is admittedly a good thing, but at the same time we should put our efforts into perspective. The government now allocates 20 million to improve the minimum daily allowance, while the government has cut 300 million during the Government's term of office through index freezes in social security. This can be compared to the previous government's efforts to improve basic security, which were EUR 400 million. I think this is a full picture of the policy and value choices of this government. Mr President! As far as the government's tax policy is concerned, it would have been justified in this economic situation to make a more tight budget for taxation. In practice, what the government has done during this parliamentary term is to put these massive tax cuts ahead of the necessary future investments. In other words, by reducing taxation to such a large extent, pressure has been maintained to reduce public spending and to cut social security and education, which is precisely what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u54	Madam President! The Prime Minister announced at the beginning of his term that the aim was to put Finland in order, and apparently he now thinks Finland is all right, because this is very much expected of the opposition to praise the excellent work done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u58	Mr President! We often say that employment is the best social protection, and that is how it is to a certain point. But when we look at families with children, for example, Mannerheim’s Child Welfare Association reports that half of families with children below the lower income threshold are employed by at least one parent. This reflects the fact that, for everyone, this work does not serve as a means of providing a living as it should, and so attention must be paid to the quality of our working life. It is not just a question of creating jobs; it is a question of creating jobs where people can live. These families are about fixed-term employment, temporary employment, part-time employment, and this is what eats the value of work. That is why, for example, the proposals relating to the reduction of the protection against dismissal are extremely ill-suited to this situation, because they also increase the inequality and uncertainty of working life. That is why I hope that the government will back down and believe that there are better ways of creating employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u60	Madam President! Everyone is happy that more jobs will be created, but, as Mr Filatov said, there must also be jobs where people actually get along.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u63	Mr President! I'll take it from here. It was an export. We have very sad news in Pori about Venator, which means that we will have 450 unemployed people, chemical experts. What does the government intend to do to ensure that these experts are employed specifically in Pori? Secondly, the future of rural areas, is it? The EU books and covers say that agriculture should be made where it is profitable — so that in 20 years' time we will only have food? Do we have self-sufficiency? In what way does the government intend to defend Finnish agriculture and rural areas? This drought package, 50 million, does not in any way reflect the reality, because the losses of these farmers amounted to 400 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u64	Madam President! Minister Tiilikainen spoke here in which he described the government's climate policy as ambitious. This claim is very specific given that our net emissions will increase by the 2030s. This is due to the Government's forestry policy guidelines, which enable more intensive logging, which will lead to our carbon sink being halved in the 2030s. Although emission reductions are made, the reduction in carbon sinks will nullify the effects of emission reductions. In the 2030s, we should be close to carbon negativity or at least along that path towards carbon negativity. Instead, our emissions are increasing. If there was a 100-year timeline for combating climate change, this logic would work that the sinks would halve in the 30s and grow back to the 15th level by the 50s. Within a hundred years, this would work, but we do not have many years to make the decisions that we really can use to combat climate change. It is quite a verbal acrobatic to describe as ambitious the climate policy that actually accelerates climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u65	Mr President! Prime Minister, in your last comment you did not answer the question that your government is making a policy in which one third of people get less. Unfortunately, this third is the lowest-income third, Mr Centre, ladies and gentlemen. It's a fact, it's in the Treasury Department's own calculations. I do not know how it feels now about the trade hall aune here, how everything is good, while, for example, the low-income person who receives an occupational pension is feeling a clear lightening in his wallet. There the cost of medicines has increased and many payments have increased. Four summers here have listened to the demands of the city centre to make a package to combat pensioner poverty, but, Prime Minister, I read this book and I don't see it. Instead, I see a cut in the income of pensioners and other social security recipients, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u66	Mr President! Here's the Prime Minister. Sipilä that Minister Tiilikainen has praised the Government's climate action. However, tax and other subsidies which favour the use of fossil fuels in this budget are now still in the order of one billion. The government has boasted that it will increase the taxation of peat. However, at the start of this government, the tax subsidy for peat amounted to approximately EUR 100 million. After the government made its first budget proposal, it amounted to approximately EUR 150 million, i.e. an increase of approximately one and a half times, and next year's budget is estimated at EUR 189 million. According to this estimate, however, the tax subsidy for peat would almost double. This money would also be much better spent, for example by investing in education and research, which, according to economic scholars, is the most wise and productive investment in the long-term development of the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u67	Let us take two speeches to that effect, and then the Prime Minister has asked for a brief reply. These two persons are representatives of Karimäki and Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u68	Madam President! training is the driving force for employment and growth. It is truly regrettable that, in this situation, the government did not correct this huge dent in the education which was caused by its cuts at the beginning of the period — vocational schools, universities, students. There has also been a lot of talk here about low incomes, and I believe that many low incomes ask why you did not improve the indexes, among other things. Many basic security is now behind us, and people are impoverished. When we talk about the future, the fight against climate change is our most important task. The fact that your forestry policy halves the carbon sinks of our forests until 2030 and nullifies all climate measures has already been highlighted. But, worst of all, it undermines biodiversity, which is already in danger: birds are declining, decayed trees are declining in forests, endangered species of forests are at risk of disappearing. What the government is doing with this biodiversity
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u69	Congressman Kosonen, then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u70	Mr President! GDP is certainly not the only indicator of good life in Finland or elsewhere in the world, and it is excellent that in Finland these 17 criteria for sustainable development have been introduced in the budgets of the halls. In this Chamber, we are known to see things as they please. Fortunately, however, we have international climate indicators, for example. For example, in the World Economic Forum’s comparison, Finland’s readiness to take action in the fight against climate change was 2015 in such a way that Finland ranked 12. In 2018 we were number one 4. In the statistics of the Germanwatch Institute on the fight against climate change in countries around the world, Finland rose from 36 in 2015 to 9 in place. But the first three places were certainly not shared, because no country is doing enough. I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä: of course, our government has a lot to do, but what are the next steps in the fight against climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u71	Prime Minister Sipilä from the site for up to 3 minutes, then about half an hour left in the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u72	Mr President! First of all, I will take this issue of income differentials. The differences in income have not increased during this parliamentary term, given the impact on employment. At our request, Mr Kärkkäinen and Mr Tervola made a report on this for the first three years. In view of the impact on employment — which is the most important measure we have to reduce the income gap, to reduce inequalities — the income gap has not increased. In next year's budget, index cuts are still included, in which Mr Heinäluoma is right, and that is the main factor in the static calculation made by the Ministry of Finance. But even that calculation lacks the impact on employment. I am quite convinced that, given the employment impact of these figures over the entire four years, the income gap will not increase during this term of government, even though we have moved out of a truly miserable situation, will have to take extremely difficult, painful measures, and that is the end result. [ Requests for answers from the left and from the Green Group] Then on to this issue of the labour market. I think that quite a few prime ministers have spent so much time in discussions with the social partners. Last night I was at the joint meeting of the Akava Government and Bureau to discuss the topical issue you mentioned. That dialogue is quite constant, and I want to make sure that the Finnish contractual society is able to continue. At the same time, however, we must ensure that labour market reforms also need to be carried out in Finland, so that the employment rate rises. The fact that they have been made during this parliamentary term is one of the main reasons why 115,000 more Finns are working. Mr Andersson, I am very surprised that you are opposed to the tax reduction in this budget for the low-income — for the low-income, middle-income and pensioners. Representative Huhtasaari, last year, according to a study by the Ministry of Employment and Employment, the largest labour shortage was found in Satakunta, the second largest in Kainuu and then in Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u73	First Mr Heinäluoma and then Mr Andersson. Then there is the emphasis on those who have not yet made a single speech. About half an hour goes on. — Representative Heinäluoma, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u74	Mr President! Yes, you can always do that if the statistics are not pleasant, you can put a new instruction into the calculation. I think it is wrong for the government to deny its own responsibility for this development in the livelihood of its citizens. In this respect, the Minister of Finance is more honest than this government line. Of course, if a person is unemployed and gets a job, no government cut will take away this additional income from him. It's a fact. But when the government talks here about how much it offers people work, it is the first time I have heard that it is told that we are offering people work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u77	Mr President! We have not said that we are against the low-income tax cuts that the government has now included in this budget. In fact, they are quite in line with what the Left Alliance has proposed in its own alternative budgets because they are clearly targeted at the lowest incomes. Our criticism is the tax policy pursued throughout this parliamentary term. Tax reductions have been oversized, they have maintained pressure to reduce public spending, and they have also favoured high income Finns the most. As far as measuring income differentials is concerned, I believe that it is most clear to measure income differences through a static calculation, as it assesses the impact of government decisions, i.e. government value choices on the livelihoods of people in different income categories, and then the results speak a very clear language about government policy. As far as this report by Mr Kärkkäinen and Mr Tervola is concerned, another author of the report has said yesterday on Twitter,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u78	All right, and then about half an hour or so will continue the debate, then there will be the Minister's answer, but now the emphasis will be on those who have not yet been given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u79	Thank you, honourable Speaker! We're at the top of the rising season, but, of course, dark clouds are ahead. Growth in private consumption is slowing down, inflation is starting to rise, growth in purchasing power is slowing down. Therefore, support should be given to increasing and promoting the purchasing power of middle- and low-income and pensioners, and it could be tied to this improvement in employment rates. Living in debt would have to be stopped earlier than in 2021. Perhaps it would be a good idea to get out of debt by 2020, because we cannot properly anticipate the measures taken by the ECB to eliminate the cancellation of purchase programmes or excessive liquidity. In addition, we would have to carry out a livelihood reform in which earned income, jobs, income from the platform economy and social benefits could be immediately made available in such a way as not to be cut in the payment of these benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u80	Mr President! Prime Minister, I must say that I am surprised at the way in which you underestimate the cuts in social security that you are targeting the most low-income people: the sick, the unemployed, the pensioners. The positive thing is, of course, that the daily allowance for the lowest incomes will be increased, but at the same time you will cut 90% of the people covered by social security, and as a result these people will now be covered by income support. At the same time, we heard from Ben Zyskowicz, among others, that it is a good thing that income support is not being cut. It is amazing that it is still boasting as an achievement that income support is not being cut when it comes to people’s food, housing, electricity, just the basic needs of life. Now I'd like to ask you one more time: What are you going to do to improve the social security of these people with the lowest income? Do you have anything positive to bring them with this budget proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u81	Mr President! Over a few years, more than 10 million jobs have been created in Europe, and Finland has now reached the same stage of development, albeit a few years late. In my opinion, it is a little strange to say that the government would not have any merit in this area, as this much maligned competitiveness pact, for example, will reduce unit labour costs by 4% by 2020 and will have a clear role to play in promoting exports. In this connection, Petteri Orpo and I visited Iisalme in the Upper Savo region of a metal company. There were more than 60 employees and 20 come from outside the country’s borders, because the Finnish workforce is not available through education or other means. I would like to ask the Prime Minister two questions. First of all, what are we going to do to make this work-related immigration fast and work without bureaucracy? And from these regions, what kind of policy should be pursued to avoid leaving the jobs of spouses, whether they are women's jobs or men's jobs, because it interferes with the development of exports?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u82	Madam President! Among other things, reference has been made here to the Juho Saare Task Force and where it has been buried. The work of the Juho Saari team is certainly not buried. Instead of looking for those clever accusations, one might also look at what has been achieved and how, for example, the Prime Minister's spending limits panel outlined the 12 most important points raised by the Juho Saare Group on how to tackle inequality. They have the government's answers to them. As the working group also states and understands the field, in Finland, inequality is not so much caused by the accumulation of disadvantage, but by the generalisation of good-being. And this development has been going on for us for a long time. One of the most important things about social security reform is that we get people who are less able to get involved. This is the important thing. I am surprised that Mrs Rinne is here to ask why we have not started the reform of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u83	Mr President! The Prime Minister said that you have to put things on a model first, as it were, so that you can make investments. The whole starting point for this debate by the Social Democratic Party is quite different, that is to say, right now is the time when investment reforms need to be made which will ensure that, when the 2020 and 2030s come, employment continues to develop positively and society is doing well and that we can develop a welfare state in such a way that it is just and not in such a way that it does not drift towards inequality, as it wishes to do. It is in this context that we have built the Knowledge Path 2030 and investment in knowledge and education. Then, after picking up the most important reform, it really is making secondary compulsory for all. When it was your policy that the Economic Assessment Council recommended this, I would ask the Prime Minister why it is not included in this package.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u84	Mr President! There has been talk here of preventing exclusion and equality. The government's calculation of early childhood education fees this period is the best prevention of exclusion, as are other changes: For example, to increase gender equality and inclusion by 10 million, allowing group sizes to be reduced in day-care centres in areas with high social challenges. Also, the provision of the first foreign language since the first grade. Upper secondary school reform will provide more support for all upper secondary school students even after upper secondary school. The services of the FSHS are also available to universities of applied sciences at a secondary level. Literature supplement for under 20-year-olds with limited resources. These are all changes that specifically help the low incomes and reduce social exclusion. And if you add to this the social welfare reform that is currently under preparation, it is it that will make access to social and health services available to everyone, regardless of the level of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u85	Mr President! Despite positive economic development and severe cuts, the central government budget remains strongly in deficit and there will continue to be huge uncertainties in public finances. In particular, the fate of the controversial social and regional reform is what we are waiting for here in Parliament, and the whole nation is waiting for, with special excitement. Although the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been working on this reform during the summer too, Parliament still does not have any concrete calculations of the actual cost implications of this reform, but it is likely that the reform would increase the customer charges for social welfare and health services, and these effects would be particularly targeted at the low-income and social services-intensive part of the population. However, the original purpose of the reform was to compensate for health inequalities, not to increase the need for income transfers. So the direction is completely wrong. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u86	Madam President! The Committee on the Future has discussed much about sustainable development and the need to base it on budgeting and measures. It is good to hear that this has been taken into account and it is that social sustainable development, thank you for that. But I would like to ask how many of these indicators of social sustainability have been used. A good increase in GDP does not say much about the kingdom if bread lines increase at the same time. Jobs have increased, the number of unemployed has fallen. That's great. We have excellent figures in Pirkanmaa, and I would like the experiment to continue. But I would have liked to have heard the way in which the employment of those who are able to work and those with disabilities is being promoted. They also have a lot to offer. Thirdly, there has been much talk of pensioner poverty. The actual pension bomb may only come in the future when the temporary workers and those working on different platforms retire and there is no pension in the current model. Is this how well-considered it is?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u87	Mr President! Finland's economy has been significantly stabilised, and Finland has been raised from a deep gap, which means that the foundation for the future by this government has been created without increasing income inequality. There has been a genuine increase in employment. The number of hours worked, the increase in the number of hours worked by employees, has been almost as fast as the increase in the number of employees, which means that this increase in employment has been completely genuine. Prime Minister, in one of your speeches you referred to the fact that the balance sheet of the State should continue to be made significantly more sensible, and there is a single question here, which could also mean that the financial and ownership role of the State could be allocated and increased, among other things, to these new bioinvestments?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u88	Madam President! Prime Minister, on one occasion you have mentioned that development aid could be increased to the agreed 0.7% of GDP. Last week During the economic defence course, I made my own suggestion that Finland raise its development aid to 0.7% of GDP, but the aid is mainly targeted at new innovative projects and product development, which are 100% renewable. At least 25% of the budget will be allocated to universities and earmarked for research and sustainable development. However, direct financial support directed to developing countries will be minimised. The basic requirement for new products is Finnish work and competence. At the beginning, the growing expenditure item compensates the state budget as tax revenue, which means that this proposal has no additional effect. It will, of course, play a major role in the future as the global situation improves and this curbs the flow of refugees. What's your idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u89	Mr President! It is extremely important for a small country that we create credibility through economic policy. The framework agreed for at least four parliamentary term periods and the ceiling on spending limits has been an important factor in preserving this credibility. Now, with regard to the budget for next year, it is very common that now that after heavy cutting measures there is a little light in public finances, additional rain is required on it and on this important subject. But you have to be honest with me. This would mean that the government would break the framework agreed in its last year — break the framework agreed in its last year. I think that if Mr Rinne were Minister of Finance, he would not, even in this situation, violate the promised framework. You have to protect your credibility. If one government broke its framework, it would be very difficult for the next government to gain the same credibility and confidence in its own economic policy in the market. For us, credit rating is also important. In this whole crisis, with the ten-year crisis, our credit rating fell a little short, but fortunately not as much as it might have been worth. Now we have to aim for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u90	Madam President! I would have come back to the concern about the longer-term prospects of our growth and hence of employment. If, on average, economic growth is 1.5% in the following years, as the VM predicts, that is not enough to raise the employment rate to 75%. On the other hand, future investment is needed. They are research and development efforts, which have now been increased, but not enough to compensate for them. They also mean a very high level of investment in vocational adult education and training. More than a million people working should be re-educated and conditions created to enable them to move from one job to another. The investment climate in Finland must be such that investments can be made in Finland, and our exports need to be diversified and SMEs also have access to global value chains. Above all, we are going to have a big problem with the labour force. How are different measures being taken at the same time to better meet workers and jobs? It has to do with housing policy, it has to do with knowledge, it has to do with pendelization. In a way, I think that this type of future investment from the point of view of industry is lacking, or not enough in this government proposal, and that is what we are here:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u91	Madam President! When this government started, economists agreed that Finland’s competitiveness was at a disadvantage. It is now in order, and the argument that our market target countries, for example in Central Europe, are causing Finland to rise — of course they are, but if we do not succeed in competition, it will be purchased elsewhere. There's no point in rewriting economic research, people. If there is no competitiveness, then we are not selling paper, not cardboard, or electrical equipment. He'll sell if he does his job better. So now, if reason is kept in the head, the economy remains in order in this country and is developing all the time. Secondly, the left-wing parties, the Green Left, have argued that carbon sinks are shrinking, forests are destroyed and everything. Black clouds are painted in the sky. Finnish forest research is 100 years old and unquestionably proves that carbon sinks are growing. The growth has doubled over the last 50 years, and the carbon stock has doubled over the last 50 years, and you talk like troll factories. It is a tragedy to look at this development when the parties take the place of the Troll factory. It's not good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u92	Madam President! There is a lot of wood in Finland but little forest, real forest, and the Metso programme is trying to deal with this problem. Until now, it has been on a very uncertain footing. Every year, a few million more have had to be purchased. Now it seems that next year can be handled, but now we have to deal with it so that until 2025 this Metso program will actually be implemented, because it has already been postponed twice. Now that the bioeconomy is on top, we have to deal with this. The Board of Directors has to take a decision until 2025 on the Metso programme. And then a few words about peat. After all, the use of energy peat is extremely damaging to nature, the energy economy, emissions and water bodies. If we were to calculate these water effects at the price of peat, no one would be able to use it, it would be so expensive. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u93	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä's government has treated employees and employees very hard: holiday allowance cuts, the weakening of the status of workers, the lashes of the active model in unemployment security. And now the government is performing, starting, turning on a new fuse. In a way, this weakening of the protection against dismissal for companies with fewer than 20 employees indicates that the government will continue to implement this policy of weakening the position of employees until the end. Prime Minister, I believe that you now have an understanding of the fact that this development can lead to a deterioration in economic growth, and that is why I appeal to you, just as the party chairman, Mr Rinne, has said: return the trio now and go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u94	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, there will now be thanks to the Government and now there will be thanks to all the parliamentary groups. The ovals of war and the veterans of our wars are placed on the same line. They will be allowed adequate services in the future, and that is a great thing. The Finns of Peru have kept this issue on the agenda a great deal, for years. I have also made the relevant legislative initiatives, three paragraphs. It is great that this is progressing. But the question is, when the law comes into force in a year's time, what about this intermission? That need is greater than that of the budget. Where do we take the money? And then again: The situation in Southwest Finland in terms of employment is good. It's a good place to be, but we have a huge shortage of engineers and recordsmiths. How does the government intend to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u95	Mr President! The most important investments in the future are those that contribute to the fight against climate change, and research and education are crucial to this. Now, as has already been said here, the most important carbon sink is the forest and the well-being forest. For the Metso programme, it has been halved during this Board of Directors from the previous one. A few millions have been added annually, but the overall picture has not been resolved, i.e. by 2030 the carbon sink will weaken. The most important thing about measuring the success of the Government's climate policy is how carbon sequestration is achieved and how this carbon balance is achieved. As has been said here, it does not look good, neither for Finland nor for the whole planet. This is very much to be discussed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u96	Mr President! An excellent budget proposal which will bring sustainable development, sustainable development that is vital for all of us, to the place where it belongs, that is, to all our decisions. A number of important reform needs, including the reform of family leave, have already been identified in yesterday's debate. I would also like to highlight the need for care-free. There is often talk of nursing arrangements and home care, but there are a number of people of working age who would be happy to care for our elderly parents at a time when they are no longer able to cope alone at home. I hope that this will be addressed, whether through family leave reform or social security reform, or that we will certainly have the means to do so, using technology and, for example, teleworking opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u97	Madam Speaker! In this section of the Government, it is worth saying that for the first time, we have a strategic government programme aimed at improving employment, balancing public finances, promoting the bioeconomy and implementing social and regional reform, as well as new policies, such as digitalisation and so on. I think it has worked very well. These key projects have been mobilised and the main objectives of both employment and the economy will be realised. I would have asked the Prime Minister how you would now comment on the functioning of this strategic government programme in Finland. We need to make a new strategic programme for the next season. There is certainly still this increase in the employment rate to 75, of course the balancing of public finances. And the circular economy, which is also very strong in relation to climate change, must be one of the key strategic areas of action – can you comment on that too? Do you already have in mind Sipilä II's strategic government programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u98	Finally, before I give the Prime Minister a reply, representatives of Henriksson, Modig, Halmemenpää, Rinne — and then the Prime Minister. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u99	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, and there have been some answers, including good answers, but some questions have not been answered. Mr President! Back to this social reform. This was also the speech by Mr Ala-Nissilä, the predecessor, on the subject of the war. Over the past three years, I have been wondering that the centre-led government first started cutting down the hospital network, as has been done with a heavy hand all over Finland, and at the same time we have a situation where the social welfare reform is resting here in Parliament. We still don't know if it's going to go through or not. I have wondered that these things were not wanted to be done hand in hand and that it would not have been fair to treat the whole of Finland and all Finns equally in this big reform. I would like you, Prime Minister, to respond to this. There's still time to make repairs. They are needed and the public would be grateful if this were done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u100	Madam President! Here the downtown representative accused the left of using the Troll factory or the data of the Troll factory, when we, on the basis of the government's own reports, are concerned that the carbon sinks will be reduced to half the 15th level in the 20th century in 2030 and this sink will be so large that it will nullify all other, even ambitious, emission reductions that we are doing elsewhere. Now that this came from a central party partner of the Prime Minister’s, are not these government reports that say that the carbon sink is halved in the 30s? And how does the Prime Minister feel about your own party colleague calling your government's papers Trollworks?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u101	Madam President! Budgetary debates throughout this parliamentary term have been marked by a debate on economic balance, but it has also been accompanied by false claims that no non-governmental parties have taken a responsible stance on economic balance. The Greens have been doing this for years, they will be making a balanced alternative budget again this autumn, with no more borrowing than is proposed by the government. But it is not an option. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have cut a lot of education during this parliamentary term, almost EUR 900 million, you have cut social security, development cooperation and so on. We'd do it differently. We would cut out inefficient subsidies, environmentally harmful subsidies. We would introduce harmful taxes that would benefit the climate and the seas of the world, and we would increase taxes on ownership. I think it is symbolic that the government has been prepared to look for a margin for reducing income tax on employees, but not for facilitating the situation of the low-income ones, for example. Madam President! The world’s largest global sustainability gap is climate change, and speech
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u102	Mr President! My esteemed representative, Mr Vanhanen, raised an important issue here: the importance of spending limits budgeting in creating stability and predictability. I think it is important when we go to the next parliamentary term, to think about what the level of that framework really needs to be, because we have in practice such a situation that we have such future investments to do — science and research, basic research, credit for education and skills, and the introduction of a reform of the family leave system and the social security system — which also require financial leeway. I think we should have a serious debate on the level of the framework in order to get these issues moving in the right way next parliamentary term. I hope that Prime Minister Sipilä will agree with this. Then I would like to end by bringing to an end another important group that has not been much of a part of this debate today. In families with children, we have a lot of economic, just everyday issues that we have to try to resolve together. Yes, we need a strategy for this kingdom for families with children, its implementation programme, also at municipal level. These are important things, Prime Minister Sipilä. I would have liked to see them set off in this budget as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u103	For Prime Minister Sipilä at this stage, closing statement, no more than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u104	Madam President! Thank you for a constructive debate. First of all, just one fact correction: This report by Mr Kärkkäinen-Tervolan was precisely the result of the employment impact of the government's actions. For example, Mr Kiky is out of this because it is not a government act but an act agreed upon by the social partners. In other words, the government's efforts to improve employment have been evaluated. And then, with a realistic assumption of zeroing in income differentials or very little by some other assumption, the end result was precisely that not at all or at most very little. Labour immigration was a question of what has been done to it. We have accelerated the processes of the availability of labour by specialist companies this season. The presentations of the Juho Saari team were already put in the spending limits debate. In other words, the Juho Saare task force was asked to provide a list of what should be put in motion during this period. They made 12 points and all of them were answered positively. The reform of social security, the reform of social security, which has been referred to here in several speeches, is why we do not start it. We have started preparing it. In other words, the Action project is working as a civil servant, and its outcome is likely to result in guidelines and options for next spring's election discussions, and the next government's Government programme will be able to make use of the extensive groundwork that is now being done there. Investments, future investments, are being made all the time, and that spending framework is tight. In the spending framework, as Mr Vanhanen well described, at least since 2003 it has remained — 15 years — and it would be rather unusual for the government to break the spending framework in the year before the elections. It would send out a very bad signal. But the spending limits do not limit investments in our balance sheet, as long as they are made carefully and properly. From there, within the spending limits, we have spent almost a billion dollars on reducing road maintenance repair debts. A balance sheet, i.e. assets, has been made for education, research and development, which will generate long-term investments in education and research. And last time there was an investment in a high-sport fund, the proceeds of which can then be used for the development of top-sports. So this is the tool that has now been used very actively. But this would be one of the things that we should discuss together, how we would be able to use this increased state property even more effectively to boost future investment, because the spending limits in the next period will not be able to afford it very much. Congressman Ihalainen, you also brought up the R & D stakes. We need to get to that 4% point, that is quite clear, and now this is a turning point. Congressman Elomaa, you brought up a veteran's decision. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for that. This is done together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u107	Thank you for a good debat. Let us now go to the five-minute speeches, and the first is Mr Laiho. We will then change the theme at 12 o'clock, but until then we will take these speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u108	Mr President! Veterans deserve equal services regardless of what their war destiny has been. The war-affiliated matters are guaranteed by the Military Injury Act, while the situation with regard to the services of front veterans has not been so clear and there have been shortcomings in the services. This has led to years and years of fighting in the state budget for veterans' budgets and services. There are currently 12,000 Veterans among us and 2000 war-qualified. There is a growing need for support and care among them, as the average age of veterans is already 93 years. That is why the decision to support the domestic services of veterans, in line with the preferences of the MPs, is particularly important from the point of view of these thousands of honourable citizens. With the new legislation, front veterans will be guaranteed the same home support services as war veterans. Home services include cleaning, food transportation and care services. At the same time, the decision is a natural follow-up to last autumn's decision, when we increased the funding for services and rehabilitation that support the housing of veterans. The preparation of the law is due to begin immediately and the change is due to take effect next year. This will allow us to repay at least part of the price that we owe them, and this is the time when we can make this change at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u110	Madam President! The government's proposal for next year's budget has been held in many different directions here, and good views have been heard and excellent speeches have been made on both sides of the table. There's been a lot of compliments and criticisms. The view has been expressed here by the opposition that the good development of employment, for example, is due only to good economic conditions and that the government has no contribution to make to the current good situation. As a member of the opposition, however, I appreciate honesty and the recognition of facts. Mr President! Yes, it takes skill and courage, first of all, to recognize the positive wave that is in the immediate circle that is coming, and to know how to steer your own surfboard into that wave brush and then keep it there, and I think that it is precisely these things that have been successful during this reign. It is quite clear that this Finland does not just itself benefit from all the good that is happening in that world, but it does require decisions and skills and skills. In other words, I do not think this is such a black and white matter that, during this term of government, the government has had very good luck and that is why things are better. There is no doubt that we have 117,000 new jobs. In fact, there are currently 50,000 of them open, which means that we could have up to 170,000 more people working if we did not have this really big national problem, that it is currently cheaper to be unemployed at home than to take a job. This is a big national challenge for us. That is what we need to be able to resolve. I do not think it is a good answer that we need to increase work-related immigration so that we can meet the demand on our labour market, but we do have to assume that we are working, that people are once again enthusiastic about being able to get a job and their own income. Then a few aspects of these clear shortcomings that I see in this proposal: To the poverty of a low-income person, this presentation does not give us prospects of hope. At a time when we have an increase in the number of low-income people in Finland, we have a growing problem in the capital region and in large cities that one job can no longer survive. The cost of living is so high. Many people, such as a single mother or father, have two jobs to cope with the normal cost of living. Then we have a growing group of people who have had to organize their lives in such a way that part of their daily lives is to go to the bread line and pick up some of that bread from that bread line of the day. I know a lot of people who have jobs with two children who have a place to live, but the money they get from work is not enough unless you go there once a week in a row of bread. This budget does not add much to the situation of these people. I would have liked to have seen, for example, the support of small-scale associations at the beginning of this term of government. This aid, which these associations received during the first two years of the budget, had been separated from these so-called Christmas gifts for this purpose by 1 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u113	Mr President! Yesterday, the Finance Minister, Mr Orpo, presented us with a responsible budget, and it was an excellent speech. There he also shot down false claims about government action. It is quite clear that it is socially sustainable when the taxation of people with low and medium incomes has also been reduced. A politician must be able to look to the future, and anyone who understands economic and demographic realities knows that without structural changes we cannot afford to maintain basic services that are characteristic of a welfare society in the future. Indeed, our aim is to raise that employment rate even higher and, as the Minister mentioned yesterday, immigrants must be employed and managed. Security, which is a basic prerequisite for all activities, is being ensured, and I hope that this autumn will see to it that intelligence legislation is urgently advanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u114	Mr President! This budget has indeed been made at the peak of the economic cycle. Every business manager knows that it's the most dangerous moment for that company when it's doing well. Every business manager knows that it is then that the investments that will enable it to grow will have to be made. Now is not the time to rest on the laurels, and it is therefore all the more surprising that, when the Prime Minister is a business leader, this budget does not meet the challenge it itself poses. In the budget, the Ministry of Finance forecast is that already in the budget year this growth will halve and the following year will slow down. We must therefore be surprised at the Prime Minister's reasoning, which I believe goes backwards, the reasons and consequences were not in the right order when he saw the need for a 2% economic growth, which would then have to be divided into various reforms. I think this cause-effect relationship goes the other way around. In order to achieve that 2% economic growth, we need those reforms. So the cock can't make the sun rise with its song. This is not the way to reason. What, then, needs to be done to achieve this 2% growth in order to reach the 75% employment rate, which is our first objective? We need five reforms, and it would have been a pleasure to read them in this budget book. The first is free second degree by continuing compulsory education. Let's stop right here on this first mission that we could have put in motion right away. It was the recommendation of Professor Roope Uusitalo of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council for investment. And yet another misunderstanding, for which it is a little strange to have to be guided by a business manager: investment is not the same as an item of expenditure. The reason for the investment is that it generates revenue from the revenue stream. That is the reason why the investment is made. That is why investment in the free second stage means that nearly 70,000 young people who are not in education, work or training could be able to take hold and involve them in society and productive activities. This means that no one's level of education will continue to be so low that it will not be enough for the future of working life. As we know, at primary level alone, the employment rate for people is only 43%, so it is nowhere near the 75% target. The second free level is therefore an economic investment that produces economic growth. This involves the entire Knowledge Path 2030. The reform of early childhood education is the second reform, and it is organically linked to the reform of family leave, which answers the question of where the jobs will be created, who will be employed, when mothers of young children are also available on the labour market. It's an act of equality. It also means that women's pay levels will rise and, in due course, women's pensions will rise. When comparing the employment curves in Finland and Sweden, it is the difference that is seen that young women in Sweden are much more often involved in working life. The fourth reform, which has already been mentioned here, is the social security reform. It is necessary, among other things, to improve the position of self-employed people, as more and more Finns get along with their own work, as a business name entrepreneur, but there is still a lack of social protection. The fifth important reform is a tax reform that encourages low-paid people. This means, for example, the proposal put forward by the SDP to support small wages, which would mean that, at best, the net wage could be even higher than the gross wage at the wage levels which are now the lowest on the income of less than EUR 15000 per year. Then no one would have to wonder whether it is worth staying on benefits or going on a temporary job, part-time work, poorly paid work, which could then be a step towards a more paid permanent job. This all, unfortunately, shines with its absence from this yellow book, which is why it is only an overview of the past and, unfortunately, not a necessary indication for us for the future of the 2020s when the 20s begin on 14 April.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u115	Thank you. — Then we have a change of minister. Minister Häkkänen, your turn begins now, please. Presentation, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u116	Mr President! The Ministry of Justice's budget for next year is made up of the components of the programme for tightening up the sanctions policy, as well as the sub-projects of the programme for controlling over-indebtedness and managing over-indebtedness. As far as over-indebtedness is concerned, nearly 400,000 people in Finland already have default marking, an even larger number of debtors are in enforcement and the problem is growing ever greater. That is why we are also bringing to the House projects to curb over-indebtedness. Mr President! Yes, many overly indebted people are struggling with their extremely difficult situation. Although the responsibility for financial management lies in principle with the individual, situations are often so difficult in a human way that the over-indebted person must be able to be helped by better public intervention. That is why, in the budget under discussion, we are putting forward clear proposals for improving the support of over-indebted people. Financial and debt counselling is transferred to legal aid offices from next year. Financial and debt counselling and improving the status of over-debted persons will be allocated EUR 12.7 million to legal aid offices, which will increase by EUR 3 million compared to the current level. 175 people will work in financial and debt counselling, who will be placed in all 23 legal aid offices. We will also improve the accessibility of the service by developing online services to ensure that the service is available equally across the country. The sooner the over-indebted gets their case out of the court process, the sooner the cases can be clarified. In order to improve the position of over-indebtedness, an additional EUR 2 million will be allocated to the courts for prompt processing of debt cases. The more people get help when they have to go into enforcement for the first time and get their affairs in order, the more they avoid a cycle of enforcement customers. That is why we are adding EUR 1 million to the enforcement agency to improve the advice of debtors. The purpose of the addition is to improve the assistance of those who have been subject to enforcement for the first time. These additions can target a total of 50 person-years in court proceedings and counseling for over-debted persons. Mr President! On the budget proposal, a few words more broadly. The draft budget of the Ministry of Justice for next year proposes a total budget of EUR 976 million for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. Without taking into account variable annual electoral expenditure, the level of appropriations in the administrative sector is EUR 37 million higher than this year. This increase is due, among other things, to wage revisions and payments of allowances related to the Wincapita package. The draft budget will ensure the functioning of the judiciary and the Criminal Sanctions Agency next year and will provide additional assistance to the over-indebted and tighten penal policy through the budget laws now under discussion. The Government has submitted to Parliament two draft budget laws on the tightening of penalties. First of all, it is proposed to provide for discretionary supervision of offenders aged 21 or over as an additional consequence of conditional imprisonment. The aim of this Budget Act is both to address the situation of drug addicts who are becoming habitual criminals and to give a more substantial punishment, for example, to a first-time offender who receives long conditional imprisonment for violent or sexual offences. The second budget law proposes to tighten up the provisions on the supervision of parole. The conditions for placing probationary freedom under supervision would increase the high risk of committing a violent or sexual offence. An additional EUR 1.8 million is proposed for these changes to the additional expenditure incurred by the Criminal Sanctions Agency for 2019. It should also be noted that three other government proposals for tightening the penalty will be submitted during the autumn, which will not be subject to any budgetary impact for 2019. These government proposals concern the tightening of penalties for sexual offences against children, the tightening of penalties for offenders by amending the first-time rule and the refund of conversion penalties for fines. From the beginning of 2019 there are 20 district courts, which means that the number will decrease from the current 27. The aim of the reform is to increase efficiency and at the same time make more extensive use of the expertise of judges.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u117	I'm going to open the debat. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u118	Mr President! As a result of the recession in the 1990s and the banking crisis, many hard-working entrepreneurs were imprisoned for life. They're still waiting for mercy and justice. I hope that this programme for over-indebtedness will help them too. When I read this budget book for the Ministry of Justice, I found a lot of good things there, such as the implementation of the new child care law. It is important not only for children but also for fathers who have been alienated from their children through divorce and divorce. However, over a quarter of a century ago, these entrepreneurs who were victims of the banking crisis still suffer from the fact that the banks were saved for euro membership. What do you have to say to them, Minister, and to their family members? Is this a programme for over-indebtedness, or is there something else that can be pulled from the sleeve?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u119	Madam President! Expenditure in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is proposed to increase by EUR 37 million, which is necessary to maintain our rule of law. Justice is not free, and this is a welcome addition. I would like to highlight the tightening up of penal policy here. You've done a great job in this short time since you've been a minister. You mentioned these particular things. This is where criminal responsibility is going to become more and more focused, and security will increase, that is everything. I cannot fail to say about these tightening up sexual offences against children and the tightening of first-time rules. The refund of the fine has been awaited for a long time. That is what honest entrepreneurs have been waiting for. You have to remember the victim's rights. This isn't about poverty. It's about crime. I would like to ask you again whether there are any more of these proposals — you mentioned something — coming. Is there any such presentations that would shift the focus of the trial to district courts even more, because it must be the first and last stage of court in many cases?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u120	Mr President! In the spending limits debate, the government ruled against the Ministry of Justice's proposal that Pelso's prison should not be closed down. It was a good decision. The province has now simply wondered that the Ministry and the Criminal Sanctions Agency do not value the work activities. The minister also visited Pelso and praised the good work done there, but now you have given instructions that a new prison will be built in the centre of Vaala. At the same time, this valuable work activity that Pelso has done, is being pulled over the tracks, we go further to this kind of mental training, although the practical actors there give the message that it is precisely that work is for prisoners the best activity, for the future freedom of preparation. At the same time, I ask what to do with this genetic bank that Pelso currently has. Have you negotiated with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry what will happen to it? And is this in the overall interest of stopping work at Pelso now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u121	Mr President! Finland ratified the Istanbul Convention in 2015. It was a few years ago, and yet in Finland, for example, the number of shelters is still not sufficient. And Finland has not committed any criminalisation of child marriages related to the Istanbul Convention either. How, Minister of Justice, will you explain this situation? Women continue to experience violence in Finland today without permission. When they have no place to go, it can at worst lead to longer being under the yoke of violence, children suffering, all suffering. The second question concerns the prohibition of child marriages. Why does Finland not do as the reference countries do? Sweden, for example, has done this. Why is this crime still not seen as a crime in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u122	Madam President! It is important that the Ministry of Justice has sufficient resources and resources. Legal certainty is the basis of the rule of law. You mentioned this reform of financial and debt counselling, which was adopted unanimously in committee, and Parliament is behind this reform. Important, important issues were raised in the course of the proceedings. For example, for large cities, where financial and debt advice is now available, care must be taken to ensure that the services here too remain at least as good, although it is essential that good and equal services are provided throughout the country. And it was also seen that the online service is good, but it also increases the number of customers and, on the other hand, needs to be prepared for personal encounters as well. I hope that in future the state of financial and debt counselling will be monitored and that additional resources will be available.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u123	Madam President! I must begin by thanking the Minister for the fact that this ten-year vatout in relation to Pelso Prison has ended happily and it has been decided to build a new prison in Vaala. Of course, I too would like the valuable work to continue and the prison to be built where it currently operates. Tomorrow, when I speak in the Vala, it will be a pleasure to tell them that this is what has been done and will happen, and that is what we are waiting for. The second point is this reform of the district court, and then on the other hand, it is not praise that can be given, but vice versa. I would like these seats to be looked at — that is, when you talk about this pursuit of efficiency, for example, Raahe has acted very effectively as a place of office and sitting — and this aspect of legal security would still be considered here. Then there is the thanks for the fact that sexual abuse against children is now starting to intensify the penalties. I think this is a good initiative and you will have our support for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u124	Mr President! In the spring, more than 130 representatives signed a legal initiative to amend the Credit Information Act and the enforcement cycle, so that default marking should be removed from the credit repository whenever the debt has been settled or the reason for it has been removed. Once again, we heard that 400,000 Finns have a default mark and, of course, there is both an inhumane and a bad economic policy, that labels often remain hanging for a long time even if the debt itself has been paid. This is also part of the reason for the exclusion of many young adults. Minister, what do you think of this initiative and can you say something about its progress?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u125	Mr President! Many good things have happened during this parliamentary term. However, there is one thing on my mind and it has already been raised here: this position of over-indebted people. It is good that this advice is now being invested in and tackled at the outset. But then, 20 years later, these people who have been trapped in debt during the last recession, who are still in the situation, are very hopeless. 30,000, the majority of which are older people, some on sick pensions, still pay the price of this recession. I have often spoken to the Minister of Justice about this: would it not be reasonable to have a pardon law for these people? Some form of social responsibility should be taken. After all, we gave the banks the opportunity to be freed and to get started again. I would like the Minister of Justice to reconsider when there is still a parliamentary term, even if there is a task force to consider,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u126	Madam President! Mr Rantakangas raised an important issue in relation to the Pelso prison, and I am also surprised that the work activity, which is extremely important for prisoners, would now be driving down from this area. Although I am not an actual expert on experience, I happen to know something about this too, and I can tell you that these people who are unable to adapt to the actual functioning of society, i.e. are closed inside some sort of walls, such human contacts, for example through sheep care, are extremely important because people too are. In this speech, too, I would like to raise a point raised by Mr Hänninen. I would ask the Minister of Justice to review the district court network for Raahe, where there are excellent healthy premises when it is known that there are no similar facilities in Oulu. Could we check this again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u127	Mr President! During this reign, very good legislative changes have been made and planned. In particular, I am delighted that the penalties for sexual offences against children are being tightened up and that the regulation on first-time sex offences is being tightened up. However, these are those who, if they are too mild, are at war with people’s sense of justice. Similarly, many entrepreneurs thank the fine for the conversion penalty. It also has a lot of bread attached to it to get enough income when shoplifters are a problem. I am also delighted that the risk assessment of dangerous criminals is being stepped up, because yes, we must also invest in the fact that when you have been in prison, you will also be judged to be able to get back into society. And now for this over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u128	Madam President! Indeed, in this area of administration of the Ministry of Justice, a lot of good has happened and, as we can see from this, you are bringing so much support, Minister, to Parliament. I have to say thank you when there's room for it. First of all, Mr Strand made a very good point about the default marking and the timetable for its exit, this bill which is here. It has over 100 signatures, so we in the Committee on Legal Affairs welcome it and have sent it to the Ministry for a statement. I would also like to ask about its timetable when we will have it before the committee. But I would like to ask the Minister when, here on page 155, it has been stated to the Ministry of Justice's social impact assessments that the protection of the weaker party is being taken care of. I have now received a great deal of contact about the witness’s legal security and position when the emergency centre tapes go to the offenders for information and then the burden or obligation of proof comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u129	Mr President! Minister Häkkänen has some good things coming up and they're coming up, but I would have asked you about that blackmailing parole. Could you think for the future, precisely because of the fact that if you constantly renew such serious crimes, what is your right to move in society completely unsupervised and freely in any longer time? Then there's another question. The man-years of the judiciary staff are a little worrying. There's also an increase in sickness rates. Are there sufficient resources in the courts? We need people to come up with those solutions. They can't be made by machines. In the case of defaults, I get feedback that jobs, even the cashier of the store, have now started to demand that there is a clean register of defaults. That doesn't mean someone's suspicious if something's happened, does it? Is this known to the Ministry, and what can we do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u130	Madam President! I would like to ask Minister Häkkkäs, who has done a good job here: at what point would we be able to raise the protection rate for over-indebted enforcement closer to EUR 1000? The situation today is that the recovery is so strong that these debtors are dependent on income support because they simply do not have enough money for these everyday expenses. This would be a very important improvement
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u131	The Minister will be given an answer. Secretary Häkkänen, two minutes from the scene, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u132	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and comments. Firstly, this '90s banking crisis has, of course, become a lot of questions in the past. After all, we have recently been reformed, on the side of the 21st century, the debt obsolescence law and others which will make it easier to do so, i.e. the debt expires. But the amnesty law, which, for some reason, would reset everything, is not in preparation at the moment. There was talk of a district court network here, and the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, raised the question of how district courts are strengthened. Well, this reform of the district court network is now a key tool for securing the highest possible quality of justice services in a world of scarce resources. In other words, the specialisation of judges and the fact that the district courts actually have sufficient resources to deal with complex issues is precisely aimed at ensuring that district courts resolve matters as high a quality as possible so that they do not have to go into the years of further appeals and processes. We can work things out faster. Then to this question of prison, the question of Vaala in the North Ostrobothnia region. There was, in principle, no budget until the government negotiated the appropriations. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice cannot exceed its own frameworks in certain matters either. Since the money was also negotiated for the decision of Vaala Prison, a study has been launched on what is the best location, place, there within the municipality of Vaala. As far as this rehabilitative work activity is concerned, it is currently done more or less in all prisons. In other words, studying, participating in some kind of work placement or activity is an essential part. As far as the bad guys are concerned. Risk assessment will be increased, control increased, action programmes involving sex offenders, heavy violent offenders will be increased. We also have access from the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u133	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this active driving of the positive credit registration project. It has been our common will for a long time. But I would have asked you how, then, you actually see cooperation across administrative boundaries in that sense, if and when we can build a digital platform operating in the financial sector. For example, could the State Development Company Vake be active in creating such a domestic operator, a Finnish operator who would combine all these needs and requirements, so that people can trust how recovery works, it is affordable, but at the same time the financial sector can easily join it? In fact, I am seeking exactly the same solution as the honourable government has applied for in the social services sector. Would this be possible? Would you mind taking your colleagues,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u134	Madam President! I would also like to ask the Minister about these reforms of the various agencies. We have had a debate on whether there are still any possibilities for more specific decisions in those papers. I know that the Minister has the full authority to do so. I would also like to give the Minister positive feedback on the tightening of penalties for various crimes, because I feel, for example, that this refund of the fine, which is a law that is about 10 years old — and the law has now come back and been put in the right place — is a very good example of how an old decision can be corrected in this house when we see that it does not work. This was a good example. For that, the Minister has a full record of the fact that this fine has been repaid. But on the reform of the various judicial offices, I would like to hear the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u135	Madam President! Under the leadership of Attorney General Häkkänen, a programme has been prepared to tighten the penalties. Thank you for that, and thank you for your particularly important work on hardening the penalties for sexual and violent crimes. Secondly, I would like to raise the issue of female mutilations and forced marriages, which, unfortunately, are a reality in Finland. It is also known that these shocking crimes do not usually lead to criminal proceedings, even though mutilation can be condemned as aggravated abuse and forced into marriage as trafficking in human beings, serious trafficking in human beings or coercion. The solution might be that girls’ mutilation and forced marriage would be specified in criminal law as their own criminal codes. I ask Minister Häkkkäs: does the government have plans to eradicate forced marriages and female genital mutilation in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u136	Madam President! Last Thursday, the Supreme Court made a rare proposal to the government to take a legislative action. This is a possibility for the Supreme Court to obtain the assistance of a medical doctor in dealing with the decisions of the Insurance Court. At present, there is no obligation to make medical statements to the Supreme Court. In the whole process of insurance law, expert opinions are of fundamental importance. From the point of view of legal certainty, the highest right must have access to objective expert opinions. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: will the Ministry take a legislative action on a proposal from the Supreme Court and, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, ensure funding to ensure that the process of insurance law is carried out without jeopardising legal protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u137	Madam President! The Ministry of Justice is in a slightly similar position to the cleaning lady in many jobs: when things go well and the rule of law works, nobody cares about it, but in practice it is very important if it does not work. Minister of Justice Häkkänen, during your short term, I think you have done an excellent job and raised the profile of the Ministry of Justice and raised a number of important issues. However, I would like to ask you a few important questions about justice policy. First: This is where the budget book says you're going to make a proposal to amend the redemption law. In the Government Programme, improving the legal security of landowners and improving the protection of property was one of the key objectives. Yes, the Redemption Act has remained in the 1970s. In addition to its adjustment period, it is also very much in the '70s. I would also like to ask you about this situation of over-indebted people. We have a private debt arrangement, but could you imagine that we would still have such a personal bankruptcy in Britain and the United States in which we could provide advice?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u138	Mr President! There are quite a few speeches that have raised the issue of over-indebtedness and, in my opinion, it is one of the biggest problems in today's society if we look to the future. According to information coming to me, there are over 600,000 people who are more or less in trouble. That problem does not end many times when you pay off everything and a person who is very distressed sighs that he has gotten clean, but then the collection companies start to come down with these bills and tails, a new rally begins. I have received a couple of phone calls about this: is this an appropriate business and will people not be allowed out of the debt trap because they are a good return on capital? It would not be so much of these quick - selling ads on the radio and elsewhere if this did not provide a good return on capital. And when it seems that laws cannot ban them, it is right that this positive credit register has been brought up. But I ask the Minister when the years have flashed in public, 2023, can this really not be brought forward? We'll be running out of time if we don't get 2023.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u139	Madam President! Many good speeches have been made here and many good proposals have come. In particular, I would like to thank you for the fact that the penalties for sexual offences have been tightened up. But I would like to ask whether, in this context, attention has been paid to the treatment needed by both victims and offenders, including when penalties are being suffered, so that those root causes can be reached and the re-emergence does not occur. Now for these payment default markings. I would have liked to ask whether attention has been paid to how to prevent them or to tackle them earlier. Here I am speaking in particular on behalf of young people and so-called first-timers to try to reach them personally, for example by telephone or by means of messages. Many times young people may not even understand what rumba they are going into, and it may be very small. In Finland, too, I have heard from the practical field that there has come a message to the mobile phone that call in connection with the default marking, and the person concerned does not know at all that such things are coming,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u140	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the fact that you seem to have a heart. You have now brought in this debt counselling, which is a very good thing. It would be a very good thing to take the next step forward, which would be a social state-guaranteed credit for people who have been over-indebted. If it is possible, Finnish people will pay their debts if the capital is reduced. One thing that would be good for enforcement is that the law on interest rates might need to be amended so that there would not be interest on interest, that there would be one interest rate, which comes from there, because now it is only interest paid and capital paid is not reduced at all, and that is quite a difficulty. Then there is the recovery offices. It is absolutely necessary to prevent the collection agency from selling the invoice to another collection agency. The bill comes to one of the collection offices and then goes to the enforcement and the point. Moreover, collection agencies would no longer apply to district courts for different decisions in matters of summation, as they will then apply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u141	Madam President! I refer to Mr Kurvise's speech on this possibility of personal bankruptcy. A year ago, you put it in motion. It would now be interesting to hear what this report is leading to and what estimates it will then lead to. Mr President! One of the central foundations of the rule of law is the legal protection of citizens, and then the number and location of district courts also have their own meaning. Let's try for quality. I am afraid that lawyers will continue to complain to different courts and degrees, and therefore it is not always the final decision of a high-quality district court. Now that, for example, there were district courts in Northern Savo, where, by the way, in the past, the district courts were in place, for example, within the framework of the engagement municipalities or five engagements, there is only one, then investment is required. On this point, I would like to ask how this side is moving forward. In my opinion, in a way, it is absurd that when you have had good facilities in Iisalmi and even in thievery.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u142	Madam President! On the opposition side, too, it was praised that the Minister of Justice clearly had a heart. In addition to that, I think he also has sense and a sense of justice. All too often, in politics today, when there is talk of justice, it turns out explicitly that it or it should have the right to this or that. But it is wonderful to see that during your Ministry of Justice's term of justice, more and more emphasis has been placed on just judgments and on the fact that Finland's far too lax penal policy has been tightened up, especially in terms of crimes against life and health. Special thanks are also due to the fact that the wrong decision taken ten years ago under the leadership of the Green Minister of Justice to abolish the conversion of fines is now being lifted after 10 years and the shoplifters are being held accountable for their actions. So I ask the Minister: can it be seen that your period is a turning point in the paradigm of Finnish criminal policy, so that the perpetrators finally get what they deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u143	Madam President! I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Justice's report has already stated in 2003 that these conversion penalties have involved people who are homeless, substance abuse problems. They have been found bankrupt in the enforcement and the costs of conversion exceed the outstanding fines. I would like you, Minister, to find out what the situation is at the moment, and how it has been thought, perhaps, to offer help to these poor people with substance abuse problems as well. With regard to the tightening of penalties, we have a duty to protect children and the fact that the penalties for sexual crimes against children are being tightened is a good thing. I would also like to remind you of the initiative of the women's network, which proposes that a lack of consent be added to the criterion of rape. I also agree with what Mr Vikman said about banning the mutilation of girls by law. I hope that the Minister will contribute to this. Although there is a citizens' initiative on this issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u144	Mr President! The positive credit register has become many questions today, it speaks, and that is what many wish me to do. For over a decade now, it has been studied and clarified, and now it seems to be moving forward. It would be good if it could now be linked to the Incomes Register, when it also starts. We're gonna need it real quick. Credit supply has increased considerably, and it has digitised, so many people get a quick buy in minutes, the money comes to the account. We need a positive credit register, which can be verified. It will take a long time for a negative credit register to provide the creditor with information on how the person has been in debt in it in a few months. But when social benefits look at a spouse’s income, if the credit register comes into effect, how then? Should you check the spouse’s credit register there too, whether he is already fully in debt if the other spouse starts to raise yet more of the family’s debt? How is this taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u145	Madam President! Since 2011, I have been allowed to be a member of the Administrative Committee and have been able to familiarise myself with these issues of internal security, and I have often asked the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Transport and Communications about tint police. I would now have asked the Minister of Justice: how do you assess how the public’s lawfulness or sense of justice is affected by the fact that Finnish road safety is controlled by tint police? Thus, in Finland, even more and more are controlled by tint police and, at the same time, less traffic control by the police. A Finnish driver is more likely to collide in traffic than with a police officer. Automatic traffic control is:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u146	Madam President! 134, 135 MPs signed a joint bill in which there were signatories from each party to the effect that the credit default mark would be removed within one month of the payment of the debt. The long, long-term process of hanging these people and the illegal behaviour of the banks is continuing and does not give these people the opportunity to identify electronically because of its marking. They are excluded from the normal practices of society, even if the law prevents it: there should be a very serious bank entry to do so. I would like to ask the Minister, who, from the point of view of the opposition, is dangerously good in his own actions: how do you want to intervene in this too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u147	Madam President! It is a good thing that this difficult situation of debt is being looked at in a number of income angles. In fact, last week, when we visited Europe, Frankfurt and Strasbourg with the chairmanships of the Committee on Finance, we saw, for example, the fact that we are currently facing accelerating household debt and also challenges such as housing, that we may be trapped in a housing trap where the value of the dwelling has collapsed and so on. This positive credit register, which has also been in the discussions here, is very welcome. In fact, it helps many ordinary people to manage their own economies better. Mr Häkkänen, you have done a good job as Minister of Justice. Quite often, ministers are just saying that we are now tightening up, but in your time sanctions have been tightened up and tightened up next year. Thank you for this. This country is waiting for punishments according to its sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u148	Mr President! Mr Paloniemi raised the issue of the protection of this enforcement, and I too think it is a clear injustice that the level of the guarantee pension is currently higher than that of the enforcement. We should be able to find solutions to this in the near future, if not during this period, at the latest in the next period, because this will lead to problems of livelihood. Then I will return to this district court reform. Minister, you are well aware of this situation in Northern Ostrobothnia. It has been difficult for us to understand that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior have a different interpretation of the condition of the premises in Oulu. The police have already announced in good time that they will not return. Oulu premises, but there is a message on the Ministry of Justice's side that Raahe will be dissolved and transferred to the home house. Can this really be a good staff policy? And how can the policy of two different ministries be so different? Or is it the case that a new investment of tens of millions is planned? That means, in practice, that the calculations which do not exist have gone to the District Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u149	Madam President! It seems a little strange in itself that the opposition should be commended to the Minister of Justice and the criticism should come from the members of the government party, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u150	Mr President! I am not going to reopen the district court network, which has now come up, but I would like to say to the Minister that there is a fairly strong export-driven industry going on in those regions and that jobs are rising and thus going away, and one of the main problems there is precisely the spouses' jobs — and of course it must be said that they are both women and men. The problem is that cumulatively this will start to appear a little bad in people's eyes if there are district court decisions that take up jobs, then the next week there will be an announcement that there will be health care jobs in the city, cuts will stop when psychiatric treatment, when things will stop. I would like the government and the minister to pay attention to this cumulative effect, that is, if something is forced to be abolished on some basis, then something must be brought in — there are empty spaces in many of the towns. That way we can keep the diverse jobs and exports there too, so that there will be no more labour. It's no use to anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u151	Mr President! I will continue to return to the resources of the courts and to the district court network. After all, we are going to close down the Järvenpää seat. It must be remembered, then, that when a court arranges a hearing, it is not just sitting down and then going through the papers and the judge makes a decision, but holding a main hearing — in most cases it is necessary to hold hearings — and it requires staff and facilities. The Minister probably did not have time to reply to that in his previous speech. I am really worried that the staff will fall. Not everything can be solved by concentrating. Summary things, of course, and certain types of simple things, but it does not replace the one who solves them and it does not bring them to the halls. Those things need to be dealt with. I would like an answer to that. And I would have asked about those defaults when, among other things, they have started to be used against people — this is, of course, perhaps more on the site of the Minister for Labour. Any messages from the Ministry? I myself have already received a message from a few people saying that we should go and see if there are any problems with payment, that we can get into a normal job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u152	Madam President! I too have to bring up the reform of the district court here, because Mrs Rantakangas raised these indoor air problems and the condition of the premises, and many other representatives here have been concerned that new investments will have to be made, even though we currently have well-functioning facilities, which are also healthy. So in Raahe, for example, there is a courthouse that is properly built into a courthouse, and now people are going to be in potentially bad condition. It really doesn't fit in my own head. Mr Meri pointed out that a default marking could prevent access to a job. That is what I would have asked the Minister how this could be addressed, because that is where the vicious circle lies, if the person who is already in debt and who is failing to pay will not be able to get a job in order to make it work for his economy. Mr Myllykoski also raised an important question about how, once you have paid your debts, this credit default marking could then be removed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u153	Mr President! I would also like to draw particular attention to the sexual exploitation of children in this country. Unfortunately, at the moment, our legislation is very much the same as objectifying a child. A child may not be treated in the same way as an adult for sexual abuse. We have one very serious issue, and that is that when preparing for the sale of a child for sexual purposes, according to our legislation, the seller will get a conviction for it, but the buyer will not get it if there is no trade. If it has been discussed, such as by e-mail, and the buyer is ready to buy, set a time and place, but in the meantime the police will intervene, the buyer can then start preparing with the person who will follow, because this point in our legislation is missing, which means that the preparation has not been criminalised. I wish we could change that. I'm sure we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u154	Madam President! I thank the Minister for Justice for saying very clearly that there is no law of amnesty for the over-indebted. Thank you for that answer. In the district court reform, the number of district courts has decreased from 57 to 20 in a few years. This is leading to a deterioration in regional legal protection, as well as linguistic rights. We do not yet have all these effects of the reform, but I would like to ask: how has the Ministry of Justice organised the monitoring of the reform of the district court, in particular with regard to the implementation of citizens' legal protection? Now to this positive credit register. It may not be as positive as is implied here. It gives one sector of business an exceptional right of access to information for citizens. From a privacy point of view, this is an issue that needs to be handled carefully when preparing it and the citizen must not know what the bank or the financial institution knows about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u155	Madam President! In fact, I would like to return to the debate on penalties and tougher penalties. As I said in my first speech, I am pleased that measures have now been taken to tighten up the penalties, and this first-time definition has also been raised. But risk assessments: In fact, less than ten years ago, a large number of violent criminals were released without risk assessments. At present, risk assessments are being carried out for all those who have been in prison for a long time, and that is the right thing to do. But I would ask you, Minister Häkkänen, whether you would be prepared to make these assessments made by professionals binding on the law? At the moment, we have situations where professionals say that this person does not belong to freedom and is a danger to people close to them and to the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u156	Madam President! I myself thought to say a few words about criminal policy and sanctions, and thank you for giving the floor just after Mr Heinonen has spoken, because I myself think very much the same way, and Mr Meri has also spoken about them earlier. It must always be borne in mind that criminal policy is an extension of social policy, and it is only through tougher sanctions that we do not eliminate crime. It has been seen in the world that no matter how hard the sentences are, crime has its roots somewhere. But, of course, in criminal law we have certain peculiarities, peculiarities that are difficult for ordinary people to accept. In addition to first-time regulation, I would like to highlight the measurement of this so-called common punishment, which is sometimes referred to as a reduction in crime in those diners. I would like you, Minister of Justice, to concentrate your resources on precisely these most dangerous offenders. There may be less than a hundred of them in Finland, fifty, thirty, who repeatedly commit crimes against life and health, even homicides and serious sexual crimes, and I would ask, like Mrs Heinonen:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u157	Madam President! To this issue of traffic control. Indeed, I hope that the Minister will discuss with the Minister for Transport and the Minister for the Interior that we will be able to return to police control of traffic, such as cabotage, vehicle safety, the condition of vehicles and the condition of drivers. This work cannot be left to automatic poles alone, and, unfortunately, at the moment progress is moving in that direction. I would have asked the same question as Mr Kurvinen about this link between criminal policy and social policy. When I myself read social policy, one part of it was criminal policy. Without one, there's not really one. Punishment alone will not prevent crime. I would have asked the Minister for a more in-depth analysis of the way social policy by this government has followed this direction of tightening up criminal policy. I am also in favour of tightening up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u158	Madam President! The reform of the district court that the government has now broken through: I am really concerned about its consequences. The opposition was unitedly opposed to this, and also many experts, because we are already in legal protection at the borders of the fact that legal protection is being achieved everywhere and in all languages. For example, in Uusimaa it was seen that the rights of Swedish speakers are significantly weakened. I would like the Minister to explain what efforts have been made to ensure that legal protection is ensured in all languages and also for the Sámi-speaking people. There's another pain spot. I'm really worried about the position of the over-indebted. It is a personal tragedy for many, but also an important issue for our country as a whole. I would like to ask the Minister for further clarification as to what is being done in order to reduce the speed levers. This exclusion of the default marking when payments have been made is one very important presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u159	Madam President! Let us now go around the same theme, and I hope that the President will give the Minister more than two minutes to speak. The questions have been very broad. But this quick-lipped problem is precisely that of the creditor’s responsibility: even if this positive credit register comes, it will not break this cycle of recovery. How can we change the case law so that the sale of these loans, the resale of the recovery, which has been mentioned here, can be broken down so that the lender is entitled to that particular interest rate and its interest rate in a reasonable manner? As things stand at the moment, the people who are in this cycle are not even able to inform the District Court that the collection costs are excessive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u160	Madam President! These texts in the administrative domain of the Ministry of Justice are very good and, in relation to gender equality, I would have liked to raise the issue of: ‘Promoting equality and equality is part of the performance guidance of the administration. Gender equality and equality planning in the administrative sector will increase gender equality and equality.” Very good sentences, but then I wondered when they said: ‘The Ministry is committed to developing recruitment practices to increase diversity in staff. “ What's all this about? Is it the case that people who are able to work part-time or, for example, people with disabilities or Roma background are taken into account differently, or that if the parent of a large family, for example after law studies, has done a large part of their working life in a social and family context at home, this would be listed positively in the CV?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u161	And then, Minister Häkkänen, five minutes should be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u162	Mr President! Thank you. — Now is the time for far-reaching questions, and this actually reflects the fact that the Ministry of Justice’s property is very wide, you can say, over the most fundamental issues of people’s lives. First of all, I would like to start with what I did not have time to answer in my previous speech on the matter of the Istanbul agreement: The mutilation of the girls has come up. It is already a criminal act, a felony assault, which is punishable by criminal law. The problem with that is more that we do not yet have the official machinery and then, of course, these victims and their community of neighbours act in such a way that these things end up being investigated by the police. Together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Education, we have a programme in preparation for these issues which aims to strengthen the ways in which these cases would end up in a police investigation. This is usually about the background of religious communities and such, and it is very, very difficult to get it into the official investigation itself. We're fine with the processes. As far as forced marriages are concerned, we have a final analysis of the measures that will be taken and conclusions will be drawn during the autumn. As far as domestic child marriages are concerned, I have already set in motion the drafting of legislation so that underage marriages are abolished in Finland. That is what we are trying to get here in the autumn, and I hope that this project will be supported. The Supreme Court issued a statement this week that in these cases of personal injury, expert reports would have to be obtained from Valvira or the medical districts. I fully agree with myself, and I will have a debate on this with the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. Also, it's not a big amount of money. I think we can handle this. This is also about the quality of legal protection that has been the cause of concern for this project for a long time. I fully agree with the Supreme Court here, and the distressed messages of the people who have come have also been taken into account. Now about this whole over-indebtedness: This is a wide-ranging programme with a number of different measures. Invest in financial advice, debt counselling, which is intended to prevent in particular. There will be tightening up on speed levers in terms of interest rate regulation, advertising regulation. In case of enforcement, incentives for employment have been improved; this year this law has already entered into force. It is intended to give such so-called delay months for enforcement in the event of the long-term unemployed being employed. In fact, this increase in the share of protection was based on the fact that it is a little inefficient because it also targets people with good income, for example, and then it does not necessarily tackle the incentive for employment so well. In other words, these months of postponement are in practice much more effective as for taxpayers' euros. This has certainly been the subject of discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in the preparation of experts. A new opportunity for a person, in particular a new opportunity for an honest entrepreneur: now there is also a parallel directive project in the EU, and we have concluded a consultation on this international comparison of the Ministry of Justice. During the autumn, conclusions will be drawn as to whether changes will be made to the Finnish system. Perhaps the key message from abroad is that not even in the US system, nor in many other systems, there has been the possibility of a purely personal bankruptcy, but that certain liabilities will always remain. It is a question of how quickly and to what extent the liability expires. Accelerating the bankruptcy procedure as a whole: a project is under way and progress will be made. Then there are the default markings, many of which have asked: This is a very challenging pattern because, in practice, landlords or creditors need some information on the payment behaviour of persons. If they do not have information about the history of payment behaviour, if they have to take a little blind risk, then in practice it leads and has led to higher funding in different countries. This is the problem: how can we at the same time make it possible for people not to be left as a pile of stone for job-seeking or for finding housing or for other unnecessary payment disruptions, but then, on the other hand, creditors do not have to overcharge, for example, the granting of a loan? A positive credit information registration project was launched and now it is the subject of statements. There is a great deal of expectation here, particularly in view of the need for creditors to act more responsibly in the future, even at the risk of certain sanctions. They must check that the person is not over-indebted. It's his job. I agree with Mr Rydman that there has been a clear change in penal policy during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u163	Thank you. — This section will now be closed and we will continue with a presentation by Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u164	Mr President! First of all, a few words about local government finances. Local government finances have strengthened in recent years, and the local government finances as a whole have not been this strong in 20 years. The annual margin was clearly strengthened in all size groups of municipalities, and this year no new municipalities are becoming the evaluation procedure, i.e. crisis municipalities. However, it should be noted that there are very large differences between municipalities. As a result of this differentiation, a discretionary increase in the central government share of municipalities will be returned to the budget next year, which will amount to EUR 10 million. In addition to good economic development, the strengthening of local government finances has been influenced both by central government decisions and by local government own adjustment measures. Municipalities have managed to slow down expenditure growth. However, the growth of municipal tax revenues is slowing down this year mainly due to one-off tax accounts arrhythmias. It is estimated that tax revenue growth will pick up again next year, and it is estimated that tax revenues will increase by around 5% in the local government finances programme. From the point of view of municipalities, it is essential that the tax revenue losses decided by the government be fully compensated and that the new tasks to be assigned are also financed at 100%. The central government shares of municipalities for 2019 are approximately EUR 10.5 billion. Of this, the central government share of basic services is EUR 8.5 billion. It is EUR 86 million less than in the actual budget for the current year. The most significant item reducing central government transfers is the revision of the distribution of costs between central government and municipalities, which will be EUR 213 million negative for municipalities next year. This amendment is indeed statutory. It is carried out every year, and it examines the State’s contribution to the costs incurred, and in the year under review this is 2016. The draft budget includes EUR 30 million in the digital incentive scheme of municipalities. This appropriation is intended to cover the payment of state aid to municipalities and joint municipal authorities for projects promoting digitalisation. In accordance with the Government Programme, there will be no index increase in the central government share of basic municipal services for next year. This represents a reduction of EUR 91 million. The state participation reductions related to Kikyy, which will be made here for next year, will be compensated in 2020 in a one-off manner, and will already be in the State Cooperatives Act under discussion in this house this autumn. From the point of view of the coming years, the stability of local government finances is very important, and on this point I would like to say that we will shortly be launching a preliminary report on the reform of the system of central government transfers in municipalities. And if we look at the stability of local government finances in the long run, then of course social welfare reform is extremely important because it is shifting spending pressure away from the municipalities. EUR 211 million has been allocated to the preparation of the regional and social reform for next year. The second half, the larger half, is in particular for the temporary preparatory bodies of the provinces and for the preparation and preparation of regional councils, and the second half, in particular for the preparation and establishment of regional information management, for the implementation and acquisition of changes in regional ict systems and infrastructure, and for the preparation of the regional ict service centre. I would like to raise one more point on the subject of the Senate. Many of you have noticed that the Senate has been discussed, especially on the part of the Security Departments, whether this Senate rental system is fair and how it will be able to function in the coming decade. I have tried to do that quite a bit over the last few weeks and I can say that I believe that these concerns, which have been expressed, must be taken seriously. I myself am here to bring to the government the improvements to the rental system in the very near future. Then I will continue to say that I personally do not see the possibility of the Senate being split up. I don't think it's gonna bring cost savings. But I would like to stress that the Senate must be able to hear its own customers much better. The Senate is a monopoly company and customers do not have the opportunity to vote on their feet, so to speak, but cooperation must be much better than it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u165	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä, whom I appreciated in yesterday's general debate on the budget, rightly said in his own group speech that the deterioration of the local government economy jeopardises the services people need. That is exactly what it is, and that is why the present government must be commended for making every effort to strengthen local government finances during this parliamentary term. Overall, the confidence in the central government-municipality relationship has been restored during this parliamentary term and,as in the case of the Minister,it has been the strongest in the local government economy for 20 years. In other words, the government has not taken any measures to jeopardise the ability of municipalities to produce and organise welfare services. And for that, thank you very much for the government. Then to the Minister's speech on Senate Real Estate: That is correct. Senate properties are a source of debate, and it is quite clear that its company will have to take greater account of customers' wishes in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u166	Madam President! Quite right, for Senate properties, the Minister drew attention. The company is in a monopoly position, and for the overall benefit of the group, when the State and the citizens are taken into account, it is a rather bad result if the built property is not used because the Senate sets such conditions for rent or other purposes that the building should not be used at all. There are quite a lot of these examples, and the Audit Committee went over them. I encourage the Minister to intervene and to create a different mechanism of action or control. In recent times, this has shown that construction repairs or similar works have also been carried out according to Senate properties, just as they were supposed to, but they have subsequently changed the requirements and required that the builder repair without the Senate’s participation in these costs all, often with a significant amount in relation to the building company. It was only yesterday that I heard that the Senate was only just now in the matter I mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u167	Madam President! It is true that the municipalities are doing well, and thanks go to the municipalities for the fact that, when you look at a ten-year period for example, central government contributions were given 10 years ago to 34% of municipal tasks, now to 25. Thus, almost 10 per cent less municipalities receive central government shares in the performance of their duties. This is the big line. When looking at the VM — note. The VM — its own calculations and forecasts, when we have a little over 300 municipalities, then next year the tax increase pressure will be in 226 municipalities and the following year in 230 municipalities: 230 municipalities will have to raise tax credits despite the fact that the war is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u170	Madam President! After all, the municipalities are currently experiencing a great deal of uncertainty about how the government's possible social and regional reform will proceed. If it is progressing as you mean, that means that tax revenue will fall to half, but there are still important issues: education, education, sports, culture, which the municipalities will in any case have to take care of but with considerably lower tax revenues and yet a large burden of debt on the shoulders of investments in different premises, buildings, social and health facilities. Now I would like to know what the transfer of assets from municipalities to provinces currently looks like in this situation. Will the municipalities receive fair compensation for all these investments and investments so that they can continue to provide basic services that are important to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u171	Mr President! It is true that the situation in local government finances is better than it has been for a long time. In these past years, the municipalities began to go into debt. I remember that, at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the local government finances were low in debt, but then things quickly got worse. The municipalities have great investment needs, which will put many decision-makers in the face of difficult situations, that is, where the money comes from. One ticking time bomb apparently is water infrastructure in different municipalities. This has even been compared to the fact that this may be a ticking time bomb similar to mold buildings, and this water infrastructure expertise also involves a lack of knowledge. Polytechnic-level engineering training on the water expertise side is weak at the moment. I also agree with those opinions when it is said that the operation of Senate real estate is not
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u172	Madam President! Representative Paatero well described how state aids have decreased over a long period of time from municipalities and municipalities have had to fill them with tax revenues and other payments. When you look at the tasks left for municipalities, if this regional reform goes ahead and is completed, there will be a huge amount of repair debt in terms of infrastructure and buildings. When they are several hundred million euros, even thousands of millions of euros, in what way is the state prepared to invest in this future with regard to it and in dealing with these repairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u173	Mr President! In any case, the municipalities are facing a new one, even if and when this social reform takes place, and the municipalities will continue to have very important tasks. One of the important social tasks is the organisation of preventive action in the most effective way possible, so that the basic purpose of such action itself can be achieved. I ask you, Madam Minister: what is your assessment at the moment, have Finnish municipalities realised that they have social obligations and important tasks, even in the context of the transition to this new system?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u174	Mr President! The health-promoting activities raised by the representative Kääriäinen are very important and should be taken into account in the municipalities as well after the social change has taken place. The reform of the social and regional sectors has also been taken into account in this draft budget by means of funding. Its share is slightly smaller because this overall project is going to be delayed, but it is well taken into account there, and that is what needs to be done. Preparations should be continued as preparations are well underway and staff are waiting for the change to start. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u175	Madam President! Minister Vehviläinen said that the Senate is a monopoly company and customers cannot vote on their feet, so the work must be good cooperation. I would now like to ask whether sufficient attention has been paid to the state of Senate properties and the security of their properties. Some Members have already asked about the correction debt. I too would like to raise the issue of indoor air problems. There's been a lot of alarming messages coming from a lot of places. The workers and the people who work in the Senate buildings are not doing well in the buildings. My question is this: Has attention been paid to promoting health and well-being, minimising risk factors and ensuring that repairs are sufficiently rapid, or to introducing so-called spare properties? How do we approach this big problem in itself?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u176	Mr President! It is worth thanking the Government for continuing to adhere to what was written in the Government Programme, i.e. that the municipalities will not be given new tasks without full funding. Although I don't think we're going to have any new tasks, we've been holding on to it. Similarly, in taxation — when the parliament and the government also have a legislative monopoly on taxation — changes that become the loss of municipalities, such as a basic deduction, will be fully replaced by municipalities. This is right and responsible. This will enable municipalities to cope with their obligations. Indeed, during the previous parliamentary term, the central government share of municipalities, the percentage, fell very heavily. Now the little one's getting up. But the last season was problematic. The municipalities also have a large repair debt, and I would like to ask how the Minister will assess its survival and the survival of the municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u177	Mr President! When you look at this budget book with regard to local government finances, the Ministry of Finance estimates that the government’s decision-based measures will therefore weaken the local government finances by 254 million next year. Of course, it is clear that each one of these millions in some way then shows up in the everyday life of the municipalities. Perhaps special attention should be paid to the fact that the savings from municipal holiday allowance cuts are now being cut twice. First, it affected the state contribution, and now it is reduced by a revision of the cost allocation. So, twice, the same operation is done. It would be worth considering a second time whether it would be possible to compensate the municipalities for this, at least now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u178	Mr President! First of all, I can share Mr Lehde's concern about the Senate. After all, the matter has been dealt with in the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee also took a position on the Savonlinna case in relation to the challenge facing the regional cities. Here I would like to thank Minister Vehviläinen, Minister Tiilika and other ministers for having now completed the regional urban programme. Similarly, the former mayor did a good basic job, and it created a regional city program, and now the government is paying the starting price of $3 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u181	Mr President! Even today, I am expressing this concern to every minister as to what is known in the towns and cities in the region today. We all know that when these decisions are taken and if every decision takes a particular direction, the result is that it is difficult to bear it any longer. Above all, it begins to appear in these sub-regions, which are often industrial cities, that begins to have problems with the availability of labour during this particular boom season. If you are going to fill those jobs with workers, then of course you need a versatile labour and job palette, and if the public sector is constantly piecemeal of them to pull them out, usually in the provincial capitals, then the end of the flood is exactly what it is today in these towns that you do not want to get a job when you have no job for your spouse, whether it is a husband or a woman. How, Minister, will we move forward with this regional city issue, and in what way will we in concrete terms embark on some sort of project that will reverse this development?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u182	Madam President! Finnish local government finances live primarily from the vitality of the municipality, from the tax revenues that work for the municipality then pass their own tracks. This is a period of economic upturn. However, we have 230 Finnish municipalities out of 300 that are planning a tax increase under pressure. At the same time, our municipalities are highly differentiated, differentiated into successful and dying municipalities. Differences between municipalities are growing. The government has also made municipalities actively raise their property tax in order to restore their own economy. Real estate tax, on the other hand, is a poison to seek life, to increase the vitality of the municipality. I would like to ask the Minister: is there any reason to applaud how joyful this is? I understand that every government always has the desire to say that in our time the local government finances are developing positively.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u183	Let's give the Minister a response. — 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u184	Mr President! I will take this floor from my seat, if you don't mind. — — — — First of all, here, among others, Mr Karimäki asked about investments in municipalities in connection with the correction debt. It is a very big thing, and we should remember that in the municipality after the reform of social welfare, they are precisely premises for early childhood education, they are schools and they account for about 60% of municipalities' farms. There must be clarity as to how these investments can be carried out. I would like to say that although this social security is a source of income, social security also accounts for about 50% of local government expenditure, which, in a way, also leaves the burden out of the hands of municipalities. I myself have much wondered in terms of the real estate of the municipalities whether we should somehow make this kind of common thinking even more, own or rent. You know that many municipalities have also used different models, that they have not made the investment themselves, but that it has been made a life-cycle model, so is it always an investment if there is a small municipality, that is the best way? I myself intend to launch a further debate on this subject during this autumn. Mr Kääriäinen, it is true that perhaps it has not yet been fully understood that this promotion of health and well-being is still the task of the municipalities too, in cooperation with the provinces. I would like to say that perhaps it would be good for us to move from this kind of pure social welfare-service thinking to a broader welfare mindset, so that it also includes what it is built on the environment and what it is about to increase well-being, even though that is where culture, physical activity and so on, in its own municipality as a whole is. As far as regional cities are concerned, this regional urban programme, which has been carried out, is a start. It is part of a diverse urban policy. The Government is also preparing a separate urban programme for larger cities. We will be discussing the whole urban policy section this autumn, but it is important for the sub-regions that they have now been raised up as an area of urban policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u185	Let's have a little more debatt, and then we can go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u186	Mr President! It is really great that Minister Vehviläinen has now taken this issue of the Senate strongly on the agenda. I remember many years of contacts with us representatives, and for the first time it is in real action, so that we go there now to seek improvements and better cooperation. This is a matter of great strategic importance in the region. Up to now, the capital region and the regional centres have been beckoned, but, as colleagues have said here, regional cities play a major role in regional development and the well-being of the regions. It has also had a very fine opening and, as was said, it will continue. I would also like to give positive feedback on discretionary funding. When there are unexpected situations for municipalities, despite their own decisions, such as those in Haapavesi, for example, these redundancies by Valio dairy and the effects of Russian sanctions on which the municipality has been unable to anticipate in any way, this discretionary funding will then, in a small part, of course, but in an important way, provide assistance to these unexpected situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u187	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that this regional issue has actually been speeded up during this parliamentary term. The most important thing is that the importance of regional cities has now been recognised. This working group of officials, in which Seppo Kääriäinen and Ari Kääriäinen were also allowed to participate in the steering group, went through this thoroughly, and now the first concrete contribution is already reflected in the budget, when the availability of skilled labour came to EUR 3 million. It is, of course, only a start, and in the future, when urban policy is made, it must be remembered that regional cities must play their part in it. It is precisely in that, if you think of the country's being inhabited around the country, the rural areas in the neighbourhood are absolutely key because the rural areas depend on the services of the regional cities, and if there are many regional cities, then almost the whole country will be covered when the local cities are able to cope with this development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u188	Madam President! As has already been pointed out here, our municipalities in very different conditions throughout the country are different in terms of the financial resources and carrying capacity they have to carry out their duties. But every Finnish municipality performs a vital task for this small nation of ours, which is education and education. The basic work that is done in early childhood education, in primary schools, is on the shoulders of municipalities. In large part, secondary education is also on the shoulders of joint municipal authorities, if not the municipalities themselves. I would like to ask the Minister: both in early childhood education and in primary education, the situation is rather difficult. Group sizes are too large for many professionals, and I know that at least on the basic education side, the new national curriculum has brought additional challenges, not relief, in many ways to everyday work. At the same time, many municipalities are under pressure to raise taxes, as Mr Kari pointed out, and the economy is strained. Often we go there for savings in the operating economy, and then there will also be an hourly framework for schools on the line of fire. How are you going to react to this? Do you intend to make an overall assessment of how municipalities cope with the whole school and education field, while at the same time municipalities also face the challenge of large indoor air problems in several schools and kindergartens, which are just one of the causes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u189	Mr President! I agree with these proponents of the regional cities. But I would like to raise another point. Today, the problems of Senate property have been discussed, but we are building a very similar element in the new provincial administration and social welfare reform. In principle, the rural economy has been forecast to have a deficit of around one billion by 2020, and it has been reported that this billion comes mainly from current hospital investments, which will then be transferred to the new regional farm centre. This money is out of the county budget, that is, out of social and health expenditure. We are therefore creating a system just like that which we ourselves are now criticising here in relation to Senate property. So how do you feel, Minister, that these problems are being avoided now in the case of social and health services?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u190	Madam President! If some innovation were to be desired in this debate on urban areas and municipalities, I would ask the Minister for his opinion that capital income would be more targeted at urban regions. Legislation could be introduced allowing certain structural urban regions to be more recipients of capital income tax. We now know that, for example, farmers and businesses with only capital income do not pay for the education and basic training of our children. Should we look at this tax framework with a new look at it, so that the State would, for example, return to these sub-regions a greater proportion of capital income taxes than it does at present by a few percentage points?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u191	Madam President! The central government shares of municipalities have experienced a significant change over the past 20 years. Fifty per cent has come to 25 per cent, and almost 10 per cent of the central government shares of the previous government have been reduced. I would like to thank the government for the fact that, here in fact, more funding has been allocated to municipalities for the digitalisation of health care, social care, for the activities that are absolutely necessary, for us to have a regional and social reform or not. At the moment, digitalisation is the way in which municipalities can generate significant savings, better customer service and better responsibility for their citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u192	Mr President! The central offices of central government agencies or offices in general are decided by Parliament by legislation. But has the minister taken note of an issue raised by a citizen at a public meeting in Iisalme City as a question that when the central government, in a sense the headquarters of its agency, is in the capital of the province, the appointment of posts and the place where the office is to be held, the head of this office? It will then result that, democratically, no one will decide, but the end result will be that those posts will gradually be transferred from the region to that city. And then the end result is that the office is only open for a short time and then it will be completely closed down. I believe that this is an issue that should now be considered, and that too should be watched to ensure that democracy takes place. Let them then be transferred and disbanded in any way, but it must be decided by a democratic institution and not by an individual official.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u193	Madam President! I would like to return for a moment to that promotion of health and well-being, which is therefore very much a matter for the municipalities, but also for the provinces, as the Minister has said, and to talk about welfare policy. Many organisations are still a little confused about their future role in promoting welfare policy. After all, they are indispensable in this work as providers of peer support and so on. I would therefore like to know whether these organisations will continue to be strongly and seriously involved in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u194	Mr President! This is a very good question, which Mrs Paloniemi has just asked. Today, among other things, there has been a very worrying signal from the organisations that municipalities are already pulling their funding away from social welfare and health organisations in particular, and that the promotion of well-being and health is, as is the case on a large scale, the activities of sports and youth organisations. At this point, however, we should ensure that the funding of social welfare and health organisations is not limited to wishes and promises, as it were, playing ball between the province and the municipalities. I would like you, Minister, to take a stronger position on this already. Should we strengthen the forthcoming law so that these social and health organisations can continue to do the good work for health and for the well-being they are doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u195	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for having been able to keep this matter of Senate property on the agenda. In his own speech, Mr Lehti made an excellent mention of this particular problem. It does not make sense that in a municipality the rents collected by Senate properties from state-owned properties are approximately three times the normal rent level of the municipality. It's not a market economy. We should get to this. If the state needs to rent farms, what is the guarantee that it does not rent them directly from the market? What is the guarantee of a pretentious organization to pay three times the rent and receive less service?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u198	Mr President! In a few speeches, the municipalities were specifically thanked for the good state of local government finances. That is quite right, but we must also thank the government's local government policy most strongly, a stable local government policy directly, but then also an economic policy that provides employment. In various speeches reference was also made to a decrease in the central government share percentage of basic municipal services. There is no point in thinking back now, but I must now say that this decline of almost 10% took place during the last parliamentary term. But it was also rightly pointed out that the economies of the municipalities have been separated, and in that sense it is a very good thing that the 10 million has now also been returned to the discretionary assistance of the municipalities. The problems at the municipal level must be at the centre of municipal policy, and there is also the fact that this regional and social reform should definitely be achieved in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u199	Madam President! Discretionary support: I dare also say as a municipal decision-maker that municipalities live not with mere support, but with their own vitality. We cannot make a municipal policy in Finland based on the fact that hose feeding is used to deal with permanent chronic problems: the migration of the population from the countryside to cities, the emptying of sparsely populated areas and so on. We need to find the right medicines for those things, and those real medicines are not scholarships of EUR 10 million or similar. And then I would add that I do not like confrontation between the central and regional cities. I think it's a waste of time. There are strengths in regional cities; there are strengths in central cities. I would like to see the role of the central cities not shared between the two municipal groups according to political conditions. It is good to remember from last year that municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants prospered. That also tells us something. We cannot divide this country into small municipalities and big municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u200	Mr President! Mr Kari's speech was excellent, because for 20 years now there has been such a power in this country that the rest of the country fears that Helsinki will develop too much, the small municipalities in the province, the sub-regions fear that the city will develop too much, and then, when you go to the sub-urban level, the small municipalities around it fear that this locomotive will develop too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u203	Mr President! On the basis of that previous speech by Mr Kari, it can only be said that, on the basis of the speeches, Mr Kari is also in the best position to be Minister of Local Government in some circumstances. In other words, we must fully agree that promoting the vitality of municipalities by all means is the first thing. But of course, since this separation process has taken place, the emergency room, that patch, even with the discretionary help of the municipalities, has a role to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u204	President! Sooner or later, when the social welfare reform goes to the finish line, don't you think, Minister, that now should be a great deal of intensity to get the municipal reform issues moving, a vision of what the municipality of the future will be? It must now be seen with courage that the municipality of the future is civil society, close democracy, inclusion, because the tasks left in the municipalities are, as it were, human-sized, and modern technology enables this inclusion, inclusion in many ways. Do you believe, Minister, that there is also a need for a very deep-based reform of municipal legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u205	Madam President! On the website of the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Industry, you can find a comprehensive survey of productivity figures for 300 municipalities in ten-year periods. It is interesting to see, there is no municipality or city with more than 100,000 inhabitants that has prospered well. Rather, it is a depressing example of how money, which is loose, has also gone loosely. The comparability of municipal administration is difficult because there is no sufficiently precise common account map — it would be a ministry task. The demand that many municipalities want to raise tax credits is typical of the industry. It is the easiest solution for balancing local government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u210	Madam President! For the last detail I used: they are the VM's hunch, not the reality of the municipalities. The reality is probably considerably less, because the municipalities themselves are doing the adjustment. I have a lot of questions. Is it the case that this funding for digitalisation is taken out of other funding, there is no extra money? Why do we have to build Senate 2 when all these problems shared jointly are on the way here? At least I hear word from the regions that terror is already counting what they will have to pay for real estate if those provinces come from there. Why are these four municipalities not allowed to change the constituency to the next parliamentary elections, because there is a state of will there? Why was it not written in the law that if the provinces came, they would support the organizations, but it was left open? As a possibility, it could have been written there. Why is it that the 800 million which municipalities are currently putting into employment care are being wasted or left to the province, even if there is no funding there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u211	Madam President! The functioning of the municipality, the basis for its financing, is in vitality. Nevertheless, the central cities of the provinces and other smaller municipalities in the region must work together to ensure that vitality is a common thing, and then it is in everyone's interest to join forces. It is good services, it is good school, preschool, housing and affordable housing, transport connections. I agree with Mr Salonen that the promotion of health, how it is implemented, is also an essential element in the overall economy, in the organisation of its transmission, where the municipalities have a very central role to play. It also plays a key role for organisations, and the overall reform of social welfare and health care has started to involve regions, municipalities and organisations in this work of health promotion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u212	Mr President! Congressman Hoskonen bombed a lot of Senate properties. As a former boxer, I'd say he tried to get a knockout win for it all at once. I wondered why the government was pushing this similar model into the provincial model for the management of these properties. In Northern Savo, for example, it has been estimated that, compared to the original calculation of real estate costs, the Senate real estate model now has more than EUR 100 million more costs than estimated. That is why I am wondering why this is being carried forward with this model, because the experience has been so bad and, on the other hand, the members of the government party agree with it. So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u213	Mr President! It has been well stated here that the economic balance of municipalities is largely due to the local authorities' own making, including, of course, state making, but above all to the way in which municipalities are able to mobilise and sustain the vitality of their own territory and neighbouring regions. To this end, I would like the municipalities to also be given the tools that they can use to do this work. Well, unfortunately, the local employment tests — which have worked well, which have produced good results, thus reducing unemployment, increasing employment — are being driven down. So the municipalities are taking away the tools that they have so far been able to work for vitality in their own territory. And now I have to say that I could borrow from my colleague, Mr Sato, who said that this is a completely silly solution. Could the government now listen to its own representatives from the government parties and cancel this stupid solution, for example. In Tampere, this good experiment should continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u214	Mr President! There are therefore two major questions from the point of view of the new Kun roads: strengthening the vitality of life on the one hand, and, on the other hand, promoting health on the other. As has been pointed out here, strengthening the vitality of life is linked to the accessibility factor, education issues and everything else. I believe that there is still a great deal to be done in this area, that all the strengthening of the vitality of its own municipality will be brought to the level of attraction, but that state decisions, state policies, such as transport links and education, are needed. Health promotion will be the most important of all if the cost-control target of EUR 3 billion is to be maintained, and therefore the municipalities must also have sufficient incentives not only to remain in the hands of the province. Now legislation is coming, but are there sufficient incentives, that is what I am asking, and is there still awareness in the municipalities that it really needs to be addressed in a strong way? The representative, Mr Lehti, made an excellent speech here about the differences between municipalities and their activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u215	Mr President! This morning I signed a good initiative by Mr Satonen on the follow-up to the municipal trials. That is why we really need to ask: Why is it that these municipal trials were not now sought by the government if, even within the government, significant representatives are speaking for it? Could someone please open up to me more precisely what's behind this? Then we still have to go to the Senate properties. It's exactly what more people here are proving. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would now ask you to pay close attention to what is happening with regard to this farm centre in connection with the regional reform. Where's the power of decision? Who takes into account the needs of customers, i.e. the needs of users of social and health services? And where is the increase in the cost of real estate, which has already been mentioned here? Social services and health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u216	And now we have two replies, then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u217	Madam President! All I have to say to Mrs Sem, who I very much appreciate, is that I absolutely do not want a victory over Senate property or anyone else, not by any means, but that there is a clear economic sense for that policy. Since we have, in time, chosen the path of a free market economy when we join the European Union, I would now at last like to see this market economy spread to Senate properties. And second thing: Representative Eero Lehti, with great expertise, was indeed talking about the finances of the municipalities and how the municipalities have managed their finances. The municipality of Ilomants, for example, has suggested that when the Finnish state collects huge quantities of wood from rural municipalities, such as the Ilomants region, the state owns about one third of the Ilomants area, approximately 35% of the state forest, and all the forest is taken from it, cut down and exported for processing elsewhere — we have nothing left of it. Back in the day, at the time of area taxation, there was that part of the municipality, and now there is no such thing. Calculatingly comes back a little bit in the state accounts,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u218	Madam President! What could be controlled by capital income, taxation should be specifically earmarked money. We are now seeing the regional reform proposed by this government, together with the wars, so that all the money is in the same bag of money and from there the money is then distributed according to the principles and values of the provincial councils. In terms of growth and development, is there less money to support and develop business than we want to treat cancer patients? And here was the view that it should be dared to see so that we could evolve. I, too, as one of the signatories to Mr Satose's legislative initiative, am concerned that it could have been seen from good experience that this should be continued. I would ask the Minister whether this could not be done in order to cheer up Mr Satose's bill here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u219	And now to the minister. The reply is five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u220	I'm going back to the Senate rental system. In 2014, the Parliamentary Audit Committee took the view that the rental system should be reformed and reformed. At the beginning of 2016, a new rental scheme was introduced and decreased Senate rents by 15 per cent. But this doesn't mean everything's in order. I cannot tell you at this point what we are going to do in the near future, but that rental system still requires remedial action so that these security ministries, in particular, will be able to do more in this regard. And I say that when we all know that there will be very large investments in the Ministry of Defence in particular in the next decade, that I personally think so when these investments will also require real estate and space needs, that we should, while taking decisions on these investments, take it into account there in the Ministry of Defence's operating funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u223	Now that this section is suspended, we shall now move on to Minister Lintilä's presentation. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u224	Madam President! As has become clear here, our economic growth has actually been commendablely good. From the bottoms of Europe we have reached the forefront of Europe, and it seems that this positive economic growth will continue, perhaps not at as high a level as it has been so far, but will continue. Of course, as a government, we have been working since the first day to strengthen competitiveness and thus strengthen the economy of the country, but the legacy of the previous government was not easy, and there was much to do. Mr President! We courageously set out on the road to reform. During this term of government, we have taken a number of decisions to improve our competitiveness, economic growth and employment. All the signs show that we have made the right decisions. Finland has returned to its growth path. Much has indeed been accomplished. With the Competitiveness Pact, for which I would like to continue to thank all the social partners, we have created the right conditions for our economic growth. As part of our business and innovation policy, we have, among other things, liberalised the opening hours of shops, dismantled regulation, promoted entrepreneurship through a variety of different means, invested in promoting tourism, created Business Finland and launched the preparation of the AI programme. Here are a few to mention. The government's economic policy has three main priorities: improving employment, supporting the renewal and growth of businesses and making public finances sound. Without higher employment, we will not succeed in getting public finances on a solid footing. The improvement in employment requires that our industry is able to renew itself and thus to employ more people. The government has continued its employment policy, which has resulted in more and more unemployed people being employed. The employment rate of 72% set in the Government Programme will be reached. The government has succeeded in its mission. In the short term, the availability of skilled labour can become a shutdown of growth. It is worrying that the employment rate of young adults has not increased in line with that of other groups. The problem of matching job vacancies and unemployed job seekers is real and requires new measures. The challenge at present is to find skilled workers in all regions and sectors. We must therefore ensure that companies have access to skilled labour, both now and in the future. In the longer term, our prerequisites for growth will be most affected by our companies' ability to create new ideas. It is important to support the growth and renewal of businesses in order to strengthen their ability to employ. New entrepreneurs and skilled employees enable Finland to succeed. The draft budget for 2019 for the Ministry of Employment and the Economy responds well to the needs of business growth and renewal. We decided on a significant increase in funding for research and business growth. The Business Finland Innovation Finance Centre is proposed to provide fair 344 million, which is more than EUR 70 million more than in this year's budget. We also increase VTT Oy's funding by EUR 7 million, which represents an increase of almost 10 per cent. With these increases, we will also make it possible to increase companies' research and innovation funding. Through additional funding for Business Finland's operating expenses, we will be able to offer companies more extensive services and strengthen international operations and attract investment. For next year, we will propose an increase in Business Finland's operating expenditure, which will increase by around EUR 13 million compared to the current year's budget. Regional vitality will be ensured by extending the bridge contract model piloted in south-west Finland to other regions most affected by labour shortages. According to recent statistics, these include Kainuu, North Savo and Pirkanmaa. Bridge agreements will be drawn up by the end of this year with a particular focus on attracting skilled labour. An additional EUR 4 million will be presented to Business Finland to attract international experts. In addition, a separate appropriation of EUR 3 million will be allocated to the supply of skilled labour in regional cities. An excellent growth injection in the regions will also bring forward the funding of the EU Structural Funds by one year. As a result, nearly EUR 669 million will be available in 2019. This is as much as 287 million more than this year. Mr President! Here is a very concise overview of the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, my own administrative branch.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u225	I'm sure it's a cause for debate. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u226	Mr President! The Section for Employment and the Economy will certainly be the most satisfied section to deal with this budget. And for that, warm thanks to both of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment. During the general debate, many speeches have raised these three major issues both from the government and from the opposition, which of course represent an increase in employment of more than 100,000, support for business renewal and growth, and a stable basis for public finances. As the Minister has just said in detail, the section will be more specific. Transport aid and very high re-investment in R & D are very positive. And, of course, we are dealing with the whole sector, where trade in Russia, tourism, Terrafame and this sector are traditionally very important. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u227	Reply, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u228	Mr President! I was there reading the paper, and that's why I wasn't sure if my name was called, but this is a good thing. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Yes said. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u231	Mr President! This year, Fortum's Uniper store, which you have directed as Minister of Corporate Governance, has been announced last year. After all, over 80 per cent of the power generation capacity of Uniper is from lignite and other fossils. Thus Fortum and the Finnish State through Fortum have become a major owner of German coal power. In the early summer, the German Government had the Commission prepare for decarbonisation in Germany. The purpose of Germany is to announce the withdrawal schedule before the International Climate Conference in Katowice in Poland in December. Minister Lintilä, are you now, as Minister of Ownership Steering, going to direct Fortum in such a way that it, as a major owner of German coal power, supports the abandonment of lignite and coal in Germany? Are you also planning in other countries where Fortum Uniper owns significant amounts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u232	Mr President! Perhaps Minister Lintilä's biggest problem is that of the rural workforce, which is unable to find a place to work because travel or housing costs are too high. In my time, I made peers — a successful rural community and an unsuccessful rural community. In my opinion, a clear sign was that there were between 200 and 300 industrial jobs in successful rural communities, perhaps between 3000 and 5000 inhabitants. After this, the locality generated an income stream that was also processed into the food flow of service industries, and the rural community grew and developed. Rural depopulation is expensive at national level, as it leaves unused infrastructure. For those who leave the countryside, schools and so on will have to be built. Whether it would be worth considering the possibility of promoting small businesses in rural areas with a specific solution, in which case migration within the country would not be:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u233	President! The economy is largely psychology, a kind of option for the future. We remember from back in the year that the cycle of negativity spread like wildfire, the entrepreneurs laid off just in case, and if one entrepreneur laid off, the other did the same because he thought that I too had to go badly when the neighbor was in trouble. In the interests of certainty, solutions were made with disastrous consequences. Fortunately, we are now in a different situation, in a positive spiral, and so it is clear that by encouraging the flowering countries of the road, hope is being given. The government has the right line: push forward so that the line of work, enterprise and communication continues. It is a matter for the Ministry of Justice itself, but we must give fresh impetus to those who failed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u234	Mr President, värderade talman! Jag vill inledningsvis passa på att tacka minister Lintilä för att det i budgetboken tydligt står att förnyelse och mångsidigare näringsliv ska tödas genom att öjliggöra att det bildas internationalellt kkonkurrenskraftiga kunskapskluster och ecosystem i Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u235	Mr President! Representative Strand was very committed to innovation policy and, in fact, in 2014 there was a report that the IPR box's alvia should be calculated so that all such innovations, patents, would continue to exist in Finland. In my opinion, this debate was somewhat lacking, and now, in fact, other European countries, Poland, the Netherlands, have joined this competition, and there when these innovations then move, patents move, so it is clear that this kind of community will become the knowledge cluster more. Has there really been talk of this since then? I would like to hear the Minister's ideas about this, because we are also in tax competition in innovation and this is something we should seriously consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure it is a good question, but I accepted the reply when I thought it was a practical comment on Mr Strand's speech. By the way, the order was a little different.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u237	Mr President! I come back to the concern that our prospects for growth in the coming years will not be as good as we would like, and better growth will require us to achieve better employment and higher employment rates. In a way, then, these deep demands for growth are related to research, product development — to which funding has now been added — knowledge, knowledge of the adult population, increasing the value added of exports and expanding the base of exports, all of it, and, in a way, to supporting new sources of exports related to environmental technology, energy efficiency, services. Much needs to be done on this side, and the ability of SMEs to internationalise is also needed. But I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that it is precisely the workers and jobs that are not facing us, and this is a major challenge, that is what is happening to us in the face of growth. I would also reiterate the idea that we would need such a broad-based preparatory work in view of the following Government Programme: how do we approach this issue between housing policy, pendelioning, competence, different areas of competence, so that we can find good solutions in this matter? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u238	Mr President! Mr Lehti did make a very wise and sensible speech on social policy, which was, in his own way, wisely supported by Mr Ihalainen. I do not think we have really understood the importance of these rural communities, especially in the sense that when we look at the growth and employment of the Finnish economy, natural resources are an extremely important factor for us, whether they are forest resources, minerals or the natural environment that offers tourism opportunities. We have too much focus on developing growth centres and, on the other hand, we must also have them. But the importance of these rural municipalities for Finland’s well-being has remained in a very small role. In next year's budget, it is good to invest in exports and Business Finland will receive significant additional resources. Yeah, that's right. The Lintilä Ministry is now one for which much is being counted on the success and growth of the future. That is why it is good that the government has now made a significant contribution to this, and the results will then come during the next government. But it is good that they have been made now and we are building this development in Finland positively with a long tendon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u239	Mr President! Minister Lintilä visited Iisalme some time ago in Upper Savo for a sort of audience event, and I think there was also a panel. I wasn't on the panel myself, but I read about it in the paper. There are some pretty good companies in Upper Savo. They will ensure that exports are withdrawn and the Finnish State will then receive euros to run services and so on. But when we went to the companies, there were two messages. First of all, the need to respect the work of handiwork must be enhanced. And in part, Minister, my question relates to the need for labour. It is a little strange that some workers and some workers are not subject to a means test. However, we know that there is a metal company with more than 60 employees and twenty of them come from abroad. What will the government do for the rest of this period so that those who want to come to Finland to work, no matter what work they come to, can get to work as quickly as possible and promote exports?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u240	Mr President! Perhaps from a Kainuu point of view I saw a few words of thanks to the Minister. First of all, a very big thank you to the Minister and to the whole government for the faith you have shown in Terrafame during this parliamentary term, and thank you for the faith and vision you have shown in general for the future of the Finnish mining industry. The second thanks concern transport aid. It is of the utmost importance for Eastern and Northern Finland that the transport subsidy was extended and that amount was then increased by EUR 1 million now in next year's budget. Thirdly, the regional bridge agreement. I believe that the bridge contract model extended by the government and the ministry, including Kainuu, will create a wide range of means to deal with the shortage of skilled labour. There's a short question. There is no separate funding in the state budget to finance the means of this bridge contract model, but is it possible to think that in some way the state would still be involved financially?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u241	Mr President! Business Finland, which started its operations from the beginning of the year, aims to help companies grow, internationalisation and innovation from one door to the next. In the same context, I would stress that it is precisely the SME sector that needs to be taken into account in the promotion of exports. Many times it is difficult for small companies. It is also important to develop sustainable solutions for global customer needs in major growth sectors such as bio, well-being and health, and of course digitalization should be used. A small increase in the budget has now also been invested in the network abroad. Mr President! As has already been said, Finland is an interesting tourist country, and in promoting tourism we must always take into account the diversity of the country and, above all, the countryside. There are lakes, fells, nightless nights and many other things that people in Central Europe or the East really enjoy. This is something we should pay attention to. Is it the government's intention to keep the country alive and inhabited? I would also like to stress that there should be more investment in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u242	Mr. Speaker! There have been more than one mention of regional cities in the previous section debate. More generally, the importance of more than 50 regional cities for the economy and for the vitality of the regions has now been awakened. At the same time, the government made the right decision for the regional cities, the EUR 3 million that actually comes for the same purpose, for bridge agreements, for the example of south-west Finland. I think, however, that the life force in the region is, first and foremost, leaving the players in the region and their mutual, closer cooperation and it will be leveraged by the Lintilä Ministry and elsewhere. Is my view right or wrong?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u243	Mr President! I understand that this budget will continue to be divided into some 4 billion trade subsidies next year, both direct and indirect. Now, when it is a very good time, it could also be a good time to stop once again with these trade subsidies to see if they are appropriate, whether they are developing their livelihoods, whether they serve the whole and the businesses, as they are intended. Is the Minister satisfied with this situation, and is the Minister still going to do something about it? The second question is the serious question that Mr Ihalainen has taken up, namely the problem of matching the unemployed and jobs. There is indeed a need for cooperation between the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Employment, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Taxation, the Minister of Housing and so on. Do you have this kind of cooperation that is sure to get to grips with this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u244	Mr President! I am slightly different from this debate, but I would like to ask Minister Lintilä when we have a shipbuilding industry growing in Satakunta, which, unfortunately, during the previous government, was put on its knees with the Turku decision: Now that we have growing companies, we have consortia that jointly apply for funding from Finnvera, Finnvera's financing decisions are based on the fact that they want each company to have its balance sheets in a certain condition. What does the Minister intend to do to look together at the amount of the entire order and the funding of the supplier so that Finnvera can provide more flexible funding so that we can promote new Finnish innovation network activities, which is especially present in the shipbuilding industry? I do not want to be more like a hundred people now than I am, but at the moment decisions should be taken to ease the plight of the shipbuilding industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u245	Mr President! I support that speech by Mrs Myllykoski. With regard to the bridge agreement, it is a good new tool, but it must be remembered that the points in the list of measures also require funding and make a significant contribution to the state. At the moment, for example, Poria has been confronted with unfortunate news, which now also looks after the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs. I would have asked: do you have any measures, means to help in a situation where a major employer suddenly disappears? This is also the section where you would be happy to see future works. Intelligent shipping is one in which Finland can act as an international giant, but we must be brave enough to invest in research and development first. Finland could be the creator of future maritime guidelines that respect environmental values and knowledge values.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u248	Mr President! Yes, the government has done a good job, and this work in particular has gained confidence in the business community and has created new jobs. Yes, confidence will continue within this budget. We will likewise continue with the export credit guarantee and get big projects in Finland. Capital lending to new companies and the development of their ecosystems is also an excellent thing. But here I am taking the matter of the plight of Mr Lehde and Mr Rantakangas and of the partners in rural and small-town businesses at the moment. It is quite difficult to obtain a capital loan there, perhaps, but also an investment loan from the private banking sector, because the balance sheet values of our buildings and others have fallen and the issue of the bank crisis has also become more acute. What will you answer to this? The second question, in fact, is that when the Prime Minister raised the question of how to put the laziness balance sheet of state-owned companies in a more active way, what is the TEM in this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u249	Mr President! I share Mr Korhonen's thanks to Minister Lintilä for the fact that the Ministry, and in particular the Minister, has trusted, for example, Terrafame's investments and its profits at a later date. And this increase in transport aid to 6 million of the current 5 million is also an indication that it has an impact. The bridge agreement will certainly be as positive in Kainuu as it currently is in south-west Finland. But then I would like to ask about this SME field. Now that the biggest part of the individual investment is specifically in research and knowledge, and Business Finland's share will rise by one third, and when we have a strategy to double the exports of SMEs in a few years, I would ask the Minister whether these investments will suffice or whether more is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u250	If I can get Tolppin back in his seat, he'll have a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I will renew my question to the Minister this morning according to our agreement. So how does your administration help unemployed people who are the target of an active model to find a job? And what is it, Minister, do you calculate the working methods of the active model 1 as employed, that is, 18 hours in three months? Are they employed on your bills now, when we talk about this, that there have been so many jobs? And another question: how does industry currently view the fact that vocational schoolchildren become students at work? Both Wärtsilä and other smaller subcontractor jobs in Ostrobothnia expect highly trained people to work. It is said that we simply do not have people who are able to train these students as real, skilled workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u252	One last response to Mrs Hautala and then to the Minister, let us give at least four minutes, and then let us continue with the debate. There's more than half of this left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u253	Mr President! Of course, this time of the economy has been very challenging, and in the past it has been necessary to have a lower level of aid in the past years. For example, in 2011, innovation grants were still EUR 141 million higher than at present. However, one third of the Ministry's main category for industrial and innovation policy is still used. It is very important that companies are strongly involved, and for example, Wärtsilä, which is now investing EUR 200 million in the construction of a new hub, can be taken as an example. The Viexpo cooperative, which has also been remembered by Parliament, has also supported its operating conditions in relation to exports in the constituency of Vaasa. The issue of labour mobility has been raised in many speeches. It applies not only to regional cities but also to smaller localities with strong industrial concentrations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u254	And now to the minister for four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u255	Mr President! I'll try to get this list over with quickly. It's a lot. Let's move on, Mr. Viitanen, from the gray economy. As you know, it is on the side of the VM and, in fact, what is at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is on the side of the Minister for Employment in that respect. I haven't been familiar with your show, but the construction business was a good number. As a member of the tax section for such a long time, as Mr Viitanen is, I am very much in favour of all the proposals that are coming in. Representative for Hassi: Fortum, Uniper, Coal — By the end of 2019, Germany will present a proposal on how to dispose of coal. Fortum's strategy is not changed in any way. Fortum's strategy for renewable energy plays a very central role and is constantly moving towards it. The representative, Mr Lehti, asked when there is a problem in the provinces that the labour force is not moving, whether we have the opportunity to make national decisions here. In my opinion, the situation in the provinces starts with those entrepreneurs in the province and those communities. It is up to the public to act as an enabler, so we do not determine which region grows and flourishes, which fades, but everyone must have the same opportunities. But do we say that — and it will come to the fore here later — I have given a lot of thought to our EU support system. We often lose international investment in countries like Poland, Hungary and Cetera, who have the opportunity to put EU subsidies there in competition, which is not possible for us. Perhaps this would be something that should be put to work in the EU. Mr Strand asked about the development of the innovation system. An infinitely important question, absolutely infinitely important. After all, what is at the heart of this budget is the financing of Business Finland, the financing of VTT, where the capitalisation of the Academy of Finland will take place. What is good in Finland and what Mrs Hautala referred to, for example, is that we have good public-private cooperation. As small a nation as Finland is, it must be good, and it works very well for us. It has to have universities of applied sciences, companies, universities. For example, in the Vaasa region this kind of Academy-thinking is very positive and interesting. In general, cluster thinking is what we should raise more and more. Representative Wallinheimo, there has been nothing on IPR at the moment. Perhaps I would go through the R & D tax deduction so that if we had a R & D tax deduction plus a low corporation tax, then we would get quite close to what some countries have at the lower VAT rate of the IPR. For Ihalainen: A key issue for the development and growth of the country is the problem of matching, access to labour. This is the question that the solution to this problem will then go beyond the government-opposition limits. This is a matter of fate for us. In fact, there is one thing that came up: we made a decision in the spending limits debate, or now, finally, on this increase in the tax deduction right of the second dwelling, it was raised to EUR 450. But we certainly have that key problem. On the beach deck: the vitality of the regions, Business Finland funding — just like I said earlier. For Mr Eestilä on the question of the need for labour: I think we need to make it much more efficient for us to introduce the workforce here in the country. Some people have such delusions that there is a reserve of labour in that world, from which we will only go to work in case of need. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u256	Finally, the Minister will have a brief speech. Now, let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u257	Mr President! The Government deserves to be commended for adding almost EUR 100 million to research and development activities and most of it to Business Finland and the Academy of Finland. So all we have to do is thank you. At the same time, we must be annoyed to note that, in this term of government, with cuts of almost EUR 900 million in education and research, there is still a very large gap in basic funding for research and development there. I would therefore like to ask whether, as the Minister responsible for business and vitality policy, you would be able to contribute to an assessment of the impact of this 100 million compared to the addition of the same amount of basic funding. I would also like to mention the fact that when Terrafame came forward, we have the GTK, which is funded by taxpayers, kindly donate all the geological information to the world and we have a great deal of international business in this area, but even in this budget book, millions have been set aside to clean up the mess of a mine owned by a mining company in Canada, which has gone bankrupt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u258	Mr President! The government has been very successful in economic and employment policy. The competitiveness of businesses has improved. There is, of course, a Kiki agreement in the background, and the fact that it has received broad support for this agreement is an excellent thing. Many other positive things have happened in themselves. There is deregulation, deregulation. It is a very important and central issue. Then these Business Finland grants: The amount is quite large. I would urge you to keep a close eye on the fact that productivity is exactly what it is, because we are talking about large sums of money. This is important, but we have to follow it. Then we all know that we have at least two hard Ms, namely forests and ore. However, they are both located outside the city centre. They are usually there in the countryside, and that is why this transport aid is a very important issue. Now it's 6 million. I think it's the whole package of transport support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u259	Mr President! There are very many successful export companies in our provinces, but when you look at the locations and locations, their accessibility is low and there are many problems with their accessibility, both in terms of road connections and in terms of VR or air traffic. However, these are quite crucial to the competitiveness of the company, how they are achieved and how they are able to export their products to the market and take care of it. This is the kind of thing that has put a lot of thought into it: how much does the Ministry of Employment and Transport cooperate and find out what these things are important, necessary for the company to organise transport connections for successful companies in the provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u260	Mr President! We have talked well about knowledge, innovation, the whole innovation ecosystem. Let me put it another way: new ways of training. The job's already here. Digitalization, robotization, artificial intelligence and so on are challenging our entire educational system. It would be interesting to hear what the TEM thinks of this whole and what kind of ideas you bring to this from the point of view of education, although this is also, of course, a matter for OKM and other ministries — but also for the Ministry. Then it would also be interesting to hear how the Ministry invests in improving the employment of creative industries. In my opinion, the importance of creative industries in employment and employment, and also in business, is still somewhat under-recognized.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u261	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that it has been possible to work together here beyond the Government-Opposition boundary and to apply for these growth fins and growth engines beyond the future. In fact, with this in mind, I will continue to express my concern that our economic structure is narrower than in Sweden, for example, and that our growth engines are narrower. So I ask you how you see Business Finland's activities. Are you satisfied with that programme policy, that system, our visibility in the world, or should we look again at whether we, as a small country, are doing things right? Should we work together with the Nordic countries, such as Sweden, to consider a common export platform? We have a common ownership base in many companies. Finally, I would like to ask about tourism. You've raised it well, but I'm asking if we could be together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u262	Mr President! It is nice to follow and participate in such a good debate on companies' capacity for growth and investment and opportunities. The fact is, however, that the key to business growth and success rests largely on the risk-taking of entrepreneurs and investors. Currently, a large proportion of Finnish households’ financial assets, or around 85 billion, are in ordinary low-interest, passive bank accounts. I would like to thank the government for taking up the initiative I have taken on the introduction of an investment account system. I would like to ask whether a more precise strategy has now been considered in the Ministry on how this new investment account system will enable companies to have more options for investment money and to get to a better stage of growth in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u263	Mr President! The tourism sector employs young people in particular, and also in areas where employment is otherwise difficult due to remote location. The multiplier effect is also significant, as tourism contributes, for example, to the transport sector, the construction sector and the trade sector. One tourist euro coming to Finland has been estimated to bring 56 cents of added value to other industries. Unlike many other sectors, tourism will also remain labour intensive and thus continue to have an impact on employment in the future. As if to add to what I have just said, Minister, do you think that the euro for tourism development is an exceptional economic investment and that money could be channelled more freely for this purpose in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u264	President! It is exactly what the previous speaker said. I'll take it from there, actually. I think that this section of the TEM is a good, exciting whole, and here, however, the relatively small amounts are very well spent. When you look at this package of tourism, tourism 4.0 gets 6.3 million and it is promised that it will bring rapid growth and employment, and then 9.8 million will be given to promote tourism to Finland. Couldn't these amounts be bigger? This is 15 million, 30 million has also been proposed. Of course, there is a shortage of labour in Finland in the north, and there is also a shortage of housing in Lapland and Kainuu. One thing I want to raise is Team Finland. 60.8 million will be allocated to programming but should be geared towards:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u265	Mr President! In this debate, thanks have also been given to the government on the side of the opposition, and I would also like to thank the opposition for supporting the competitiveness pact that has emerged here. As the only party, the Left Alliance opposed it. As the Minister pointed out, our competitiveness has improved and, in part, the number of people employed has improved by 110,000. We are now facing major challenges in the availability of labour. Re-training and further training are needed. But more than 600,000 people also depend on primary school alone, and their employment rate remains only about 40 percent. This is the kind of group we definitely need to put these training efforts into. I am pleased that the biggest individual investment in the budget line was directed specifically to knowledge and research, because only
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u266	Mr President! I too share the Minister's thanks for the special attention paid to this domestic tourism, at least in recent years, and it offers a great deal more scope for job creation. The Minister himself drew attention to the fact that it is not automatically available. I would like to ask: what measures are planned to open this bottleneck in the Ministry? Various channels have also been raised here and the question of whether the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport have discussed matters. Of these too, I would like to hear the Minister's view, including on the core network survey: will it meet the needs of today's companies and the challenges of the future? Then there is the bridge agreement model, which is very interesting and new. It may have a little echo of bridge drum politics, but can you still get some kind of opening?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u267	Mr President! Finland has a lot of knowledge, know-how and know-how in many fields of technology. Health technology is one of the sectors that is rapidly growing in the world, and there is a great deal of demand for it. In view of the high quality of healthcare and medical care in Finland, there are also many skilled actors in health technology who are in demand in the world. The problem is many times that even if these players get in touch with the world, those orders or expectations there in the world are for such large numbers, large projects, and individual smaller players, even if they are linked to a larger group, cannot respond to the great capacity that is being asked. And here's the question: In what way in the Ministry are you responding to this type of challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u268	Mr President! It is very important that companies are doing well, because it is clear that today's growth is taking place in companies. The public sector prefers to reduce labour rather than increase. So the well-being of companies is the welfare of the whole of Finland, and that well-being is now spreading throughout Finland, and especially on the bioeconomy side, especially on the forest side, investments are taking place all over Finland. Hopefully, further efforts will be made by Minister Lintilä's ministry to mobilise these investments. But from the point of view of business in this country, the threshold is to create high-speed broadband networks in this country. It is clear that it falls within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Communications and that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is dealing with various rural projects. But is there any way of getting such cross-administrative interministerial cooperation in this country to build these broadband networks based on optical fibre technology throughout the country? That is definitely the case number one for companies. If the information doesn't move, the companies won't succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u269	Mr President! Last spring, a report on radical technologies appeared in the Committee on the Future, presenting the growth sectors of the future. The report focuses on Finland's 100 new opportunities. The report is probably one of the best foresight reports ever made, even in global terms. There has been some concern in the committee as to whether this report will now be passed on to the ministries or will remain a report among the reports. We should be preparing for the future already, and that report would have really good foresight and preparation tools for the future. I would ask the Minister whether you have been familiar with this report and what new ideas arose for the Minister when reading this report, if you have had the opportunity to get to know it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u270	Mr President! Indeed, supporting the growth and renewal of businesses is extremely important in this situation, and this also applies to the bioeconomy, which Mr Hoskonen mentioned earlier. I have met several bioeconomy start-ups and also had discussions with them about what their growth prospects are and what the future of their businesses looks like. Many of them have specifically raised the issue of access to capital and its problem. Now the situation is that these instruments, Business Finland and others, make it possible to provide good funding for its product development phase and so on, but at the time when we talk about industrial activities, about new industrial products, it is often then that stage when we need it from outside. I am raising this issue because I am concerned about domestic ownership. Of course, we also need foreign capital. But I would like to ask the Minister what your view is as to whether our new industrial companies will easily be able to capitalise to the point when the production starts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u271	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister about the road map for energy policy, specifically the realistic road map. We remember that a decision was taken in Germany at the time to abandon 11 nuclear power plants after the Fukushima accident, and unfortunately that decision is stimulant and has led to an increase in the use of coal. What will we do in Finland if we are banned from coal? It certainly makes sense for the climate, and peat too is on the blacklist, but when we have a lot of bioeconomy investment, the pulp mills will rise — the pulp mills will be a prerequisite for us to be able to produce higher-processing products — what do we burn in many of the provincial central cities where large combustion plants, heating and district heating plants, combined heat and electricity productions have been invested? The fuel there is wood and peat, and that is not only what happens if, for example, the peat is shut down, that is transferred to the trees. It'll cost you. How long do you think investment protection is in Finland if the investment has been targeted at hundreds of millions of euros?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u272	Mr President! There is a very good future debate here, and the Ministry of the Future is the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Growth has been forecast for next year at 1.5%. I do not yet trust it when I have not heard your predictions, Minister Lintilä, but the fortune tellers have, as you know, been behind the round. This is not the economic cycle alone; we now have very long-term prospects for development in many sectors — tourism, forestry, the maritime industry. For example, Meyer already has a five - year order book at home. This requires educational solutions. Even diploma engineers do not move, unfortunately, and I have noticed that you have supported verbally the fact that the South-West Finland region will also receive training in engineering, which is absolutely necessary. How do you see the situation now? Do you support the fact that a solution can be found here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u273	Mr President! There has been a debate here about whether we have sufficient labour reserves under conditions in which young people become less in employment every year than they retire from one end of life. We do. We have just over 80,000 long-term unemployed, who should also be brought into the labour market. We probably have a little over 100,000 people in disguised unemployment who, for various reasons, are not on the labour market. They must be encouraged, supported in the labour market. We have several thousand people who are capable of working part-time who would like to enter the labour market if that gate only opens. And we have many immigrants whose unemployment rate is higher than that of the native population. They are also needed in Finnish working life, and the main pillar of the growth of the working-age population in many regions is probably immigrants. We have 70,000 young adults under 30 who are not working, who are not in education, are fragile in society. All these measures are needed if we are to genuinely raise its employment rate to 75%. ♪ And this is what it takes ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u274	Mr President! Congressman Reijonen asked about the transport subsidies. We have the idea here that the whole country will remain inhabited. Let me give you an example: If the company is in Tampere, the transports work very well as a return on expenditure. But if a company is in Kuhmo, or Kuusamo, and there is a sawmill or a mechanical forestry company, it does not need much imports, it is only exports. In that case, for example, three cargoes a day are imported, but 30 are leaving. Which means the back-to-back system won't work there. Is this the case that regional aid is granted to, for example, Western Finland other than Eastern Finland and Northern Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u275	I look at the timetable and I estimate that I would still be able to give a reply to the representatives of Korhonen, Lehti and Juhantalo — President of the section — and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u276	Mr President! In his previous speech, Mr Pirttilahti raised the Prime Minister's reference this morning to the need for a more rational use of the state balance sheet. Of course, the Prime Minister also raised future investments, and it is for future investments that the balance sheet should be used. But, esteemed Minister, could this more rational use of the state's balance sheet also mean a significant financial or ownership role of the state in new bioinvestments of hundreds of millions? For example, would it be possible to think that: Is this the intention to capitalise on the work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u277	Mr President! It's good to continue with the balance sheet. The state's balance sheet, and the public's balance sheet in particular, is losing its value all the time because of the depopulation of the countryside. I have wondered many times what kind of business activity could be carried out in rural areas with competitive, lasting advantages in relation to growth centres, for example. With the digital service, it is possible to become a software entrepreneur in almost any part of Finland. Such a company can become networked, not only with domestic operators, but all the way to Bangalore in India. And a networked company is able to offer quite large orders to offer a competitive offer. Business Finland's money and start-up money could somehow be allocated to such industries, where there is a genuine competitive advantage in rural areas. In the capital region, coders and people in the computer industry are engaged in bloody competition at a very high wage level in relation to what it would be in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u278	Mr President! I warmly agree with Mr Korhonen and Mr Suutari's statements on the positive Terrafame development. But it's got some dark clouds in it now. The imbalance in international trade with customs competition and so on inevitably leads to a marked disruption of the world market price for nickel and zinc, and I anticipate that it will also have a serious impact on the quarterly outcome of October. This is now disturbing the excellent and fully planned development Terrafame has. I hope that both ministers will do their best — after all, Finland has small shoulders on this issue, but through the EU — to put an end to this imbalance. If it's prolonged, it'll do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u279	Minister Lindström will be up in just over two minutes. But let's give Minister Lintilä three minutes anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u280	Mr President! Colleagues, there's gonna be that kind of gunfire now. Several people here, such as Mäkipää, asked about the development of tourism. Tourism is currently the fastest growing industry in Finland. Around 145,000 Finns make their living pretty well throughout the kingdom, of course, the priorities Lapland and Saimaa, which will be the biggest risers of this summer. For Korhonen: within the bridge agreement framework. To the question of whether his view is correct: it is right again. For the Habitat: Will we still be doing something there this season? We're not going to do business support, it's going to stay with the next government. Myllykoski, Finnvera funding: Our financial palette has been constantly being expanded. That's what they asked the other day. I am particularly pleased with the three funds with a combined leverage effect of around one billion, i.e. very positive. Venator's actions referred to by Mr Salonen: They have been started with the city and the province, and the Ministry is involved. Let's hope we still find an interest in the area. For the shoemaker: Double export, sufficient resources? Yes, we need that SME sector, we really need more pressure on that Business Finland side of the international business. So there's a way to get people out of Ruoholahti, and that's how you get them out. Tolppanen asked about the active model. Mr Lindström will certainly be in charge of the active model, because it belongs to him. What companies are told about these schoolchildren is that they are most in need of apprenticeship training, and they would be happy to take those in apprenticeship training. Statistics Finland calculates the unemployed according to its criteria. Halmemenpää asked about the training. The OECD recommendation, a clear recommendation, is on the application side, and it is also on its side. I don't know what the difference is. There's a task force on the way to transport support to go over it. It's a challenge with you. Semi, accessibility: Yes, it is bits and bitumen. That's what we're hoping for. For Skinner: First of all, thank you very much for your good cooperation with both masters, Mr Skinner and Mr Ihalainen. I'm sure Business Finland doesn't act as you'd like. This business plan for tourism: we have Visit Finland, which actually has it on the road, but I think this is a great idea, and we could all see if we can take it forward. Then there were more than one labor force here, and the big problem lies in these people who depend only on primary school. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u281	Let us move on to the presentation by the next Minister. — Minister Lindström, and you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u282	Mr President! During this term of government, we have taken a number of decisions to improve economic growth and employment. Everyone well knows that some of the decisions have been more painful than others, but in general I would say that we have been brave and have had the courage to take decisions in every place which are decisions for Finland. As everyone well knows, this has been helped by the fact that economic growth has been good. With the reforms that we have made, we have built the foundations for a positive momentum in our economy, and this provides a good basis for employment development. Few people in this Chamber believed, for less than four years, two years or even a year ago, that this target of 72% of government employment would be achieved, but that is the only way that it will be achieved, and it is great to note that the government has made the right decisions and reforms to achieve that objective. Finland must continue on the road to reform. There are no easy ways in anyone's back pocket anymore. I believe that if we all understand the interests of Finland and the citizens, we can achieve a 75% employment rate, why not even higher. We have made reforms, and in the area of employment policy, which I am responsible for, there has been a competitiveness pact, of course, the social partners as a key element. A number of improvements have been made to the labour law, the permanent youth Ohjaamo activities, the introduction of interviews for the unemployed for three months, we are making it possible to complete short-term studies without losing the unemployment benefit — that is, it is here in Parliament — facilitating self-employment, shortening the duration of unemployment security, increasing the availability of skilled labour, and an active model has been introduced. The latest decision was taken in the budget debate to introduce an employment premium for companies when subsidised fixed-term work becomes permanent. We are setting up a national disability programme, one of the objectives of which is the reintegration into the labour market of the unemployed, which Mr Ihalainen has just raised, and this is, in my view, a very important decision. Much more we have done, but here are some picks of what has been done. We have increased the government's efforts. At the end of July, the activation rate was 27.2 per cent, which is nearly 4 percentage points higher than one year ago. Three years ago, when I spoke about the draft budget from this same place, the unemployment rate was 9.4 per cent. Now the Ministry of Finance predicts an unemployment rate of 6.9% next year. The legacy of this government to the next government in the field of employment is much, much, much better than what we inherited from the previous government, and that is how it should go. As far as the draft budget for 2019 is concerned, it includes sufficient appropriations for the new employment policy measures that we have decided on. The budget for public employment and business services is set at EUR 244 million. We also estimate that some EUR 160 million will be made available for new measures next year. Integration is also my responsibility. Everyone well remembers that we were facing an unprecedented situation a few years ago, and we launched the reform of integration policy at the time with two main points, firstly, the reform of the integration system more work-oriented, and secondly, efforts have been made to put the immigrant's own role at the centre. Employment is the goal from the start of integration. A good concrete example of the new tools is the impact investment fund, the so-called SIB model that we built to promote the employment of immigrants. At the beginning of the month, the OECD estimates that our development work in the field of integration has been in the right direction, but this development must continue. In particular, support for the integration of women and children must be strengthened further. In this context, there are government proposals within this proposal, and one is that we could continue to use unemployment benefit for pay subsidies, start-up grants and mobility grants. There has been positive experience of this and, of course, the TEAS project also explains the impact this has actually had. Mr President! This was a very close overview of my responsibility for employment policy and integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u283	I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u284	Mr President! If you start with the municipal experiment when I think it's acute for a lot of people. That's where the activation rate is at 40 percent. If it rose from 20 to 40 percent, then the results are truly significant. That is why, of course, this question is being asked over and over again by the Minister: why should it not be allowed to continue? 800 million is the sum that municipalities are currently spending on managing employment in various measures: TYP activities, youth workshops, rehabilitation activities and then in these experiments. Now that there is a desire to transfer this to the market and regions, the role of municipalities will be completely reduced. I understand, this is ideological thinking that the municipalities want to move tasks away, but can Finland really afford this? It is good that the maximum wage subsidy for organisations has been increased, but why should there be a ceiling, the 4000? Why can it not be that it is possible for all organisations to apply for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u285	Mr President! The measures taken by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy have resulted in unprecedented growth in Finnish employment, the fact that we now have 115,000 new jobs compared to the previous one. With the Kiki agreement, we have been able to manage the Finnish cost level in such a way that international competitiveness has improved by 10%. How, Minister, would you now see these new employment projects in terms of whether it is possible to reduce redundancies without then finally losing peace in the labour market, this person with the preconditions for competitiveness, so that the ban on overtime can be abolished as a means of exerting pressure on workers' organisations? How do we achieve peace in these important workplaces?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u286	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, excellent work has been done to improve employment. The results speak for themselves. A big thank you to Minister Lindström for the work he has done. What is essential at the moment is that we are able to continue the positive development that we have now had, and so that we can pursue it from 72 to 75, these reforms must continue. Above all, the employment potential of small enterprises must be mobilised. It is accompanied by this bill to facilitate personal dismissal. It is important, but it is also important that we make maximum use of the resources that we currently have. That is why I too think it is important that we find a way in which these municipal employment experiments can continue until the new law has come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u287	Madam President! It is clear that we all want to do our best to continue with the good employment situation and to continue to get more jobs for those who are still unemployed and those who are still unemployed. One way that the government intends to introduce is to open up the employment market to private operators alongside the TE Offices. Of course, there are opportunities, but there are also major threats. In my opinion, the main threat is that in the government proposal these private companies could not only organise services but also organise an assessment of the need for services. Then the big threat is that every private company should consider the necessary services as broad as possible for everyone so that they can provide more of their services. How will this threat be overcome in this bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u288	Mr President! The improvement in employment is, of course, a good thing that delights us all, but, in the interests of honesty, it cannot be said that this is entirely the result of government action. The main reason for this is the improved global economic situation. However, we are glad that employment has improved. But now the main concern is for those who are not working, because it is they who have been hit most hard by the blackmail of the government. The active model has crammed many unemployed people in an unnecessary way. Unfortunately, the situation in many Employment and Economic Development Centres is that it has not been possible to provide labour market training for all those who wish to do so. I would have asked the minister: Has the resources now been put in place, that anyone who is willing, really wants their own employment, is sure to get into education? Have those trainings been developed in such a way that they best serve
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u289	Mr President! My esteemed representative, Mr Modig, raised an active model which has received criticism, but in the next few days I received an e-mail from one of the workers, thanks for this question. He said he was a good example of an active model. He'd been pushed by this guy, kicked a little bit, got real estate work from a friend he knew. He said that he himself knew that such jobs he could get, but this requirement for 18 hours was the piece that was missing that made him do it, that he asked for those jobs. He says he's got a good cycle now. He's got a fixed-term job, at least until the end of the year. Let us see how things are going with him, but this is what the government specifically sought with this. The second question I would like to raise, of course, is this continuation of Lex Lindström, which is a one-off pension subsidy for the elderly, long-term unemployed. It is a very important question, both humanly and economically, to let these people out of the situation where they are when only 1% of the long-term unemployed find employment in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u290	Mr President! I myself have been able to employ the long-term unemployed and the disabled with a good team of professionals, and we have always had the common goal of getting the part-time working capacity that a person has, for this common use, for the benefit of his immediate circle and, of course, for the benefit of the entire nation. The SDP has proposed the introduction of an employment voucher based on the so-called "Ride" model, in which such passive support, including: According to my memory, even the city of Lahti pays about 20 million dollars, so to speak, as a fine each year, to become a more active bill that would enable the long-term unemployed, disabled person to find employment. Minister, why has the government not moved forward with this model we have presented? As a human being in the industry, I would consider it an excellent tool for such passive tools to be:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u291	Mr President! The pay support card has become a kind of dead letter, even though it has existed since 2017. In practice, the TE Office dares not give it to anyone because it is not the final promise of three months' pay subsidy. Often the unemployed do not even know whether they are entitled to pay subsidies. Clearly, employment would be facilitated if the unemployed had up-to-date information on their right to pay subsidies. It takes up to a few weeks to process pay subsidies, but the need for a company in small towns, for example, may be very urgent — and I have heard about this many times — so that the job can be missed. And the municipality, as stated by the operators in the field, should have its own expert at the TE Office, who could always be called if there were any questions, and then they would be able to quickly resolve this wage subsidy decision, to speed it up. I think this would be very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u292	Mr President! As Mr Satonen said there, the government has done an excellent job on employment management, and those 120,000 new jobs are indeed a good sign of this. But that does not mean that there are no challenges. I'd like to ask you about this active model. For example, if you look at the academic unemployed, it is quite difficult for them to get a short-term job, which is usually the equivalent of education, so that this model may not have been quite the best for them. In some ways this system could be developed. So have you, Minister, wondered in what way it could be developed for the academics in particular? Then there's another question. Mr Järvinen raised the issue of the transition of the employment market to private operators, which I personally welcome, but at the same time I would also like to ask: could it be possible to think that unemployment funds will have more work to do in the future, because they still know their unemployed best, especially in academics?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u293	Mr President! I, too, call for these municipal trials to be able to continue. For example, we have 26,000 customers in the largest experiment in Pirkanmaa, which means that after this month the customers can no longer be taken and we start driving down the system and transferring the TE Office to the head of the TE Office, and in a few years' time we should be building a regional government. When the Committee on Labour has unanimously stated that these experiments should be continued, I would ask: why do you refuse to continue these experiments? As Mr Järvinen pointed out, you are also bringing in these so-called growth services pilots, where permanent legislation makes private operators a strong part of our employment management. I would like to ask the same question: if the company assesses the needs of the unemployed and at the same time produces the services it assesses, how do you see that this system works? For example, in Pirkanmaa, as a result of these pilots, all the long-term unemployed are taken to the private sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, there are quite a few questions for the Minister. However, I will give the floor to Mr Strand, Mr Yanar, Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Lehto, Mr Reijonen and Mr Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u295	Mr President! It is really great that Finland is about to reach a 72% employment rate this season. In the longer term, the target should be 80. There is good news from all over our country, and, for example, Wärtsilä in 200 countries announced a EUR 200 million investment in Vaasa a few weeks ago. I believe that Minister Lindström has done a good job on many points, but a few particularly important and necessary reforms have unfortunately not been carried out by this government. I am referring in particular to the promotion of local reconciliation and the elimination of the need-tested foreign labour force. If we really want to bring the employment rate closer to the Nordic level, I think we need to get these in the toolbox too. I believe that many of us are now getting feedback from companies that there is a desire for growth, as long as we can hire people. Do you have a comment on this, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u296	Mr President! The Minister for Labour talked a lot about raising the employment rate, and of course we all agree on that. Reforming family leave would have been a good way to increase the employment rate. That would have been a good solution. Improving the position of women in the labour market is a very important issue, and all experts agree. I would have asked the minister: Why didn't you get on with it? Why was this not a priority for the government? Of course, the government likes to speak beautiful without doing anything at all, and that is exactly what has been done about this. But why didn't you get this done? Why?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u297	Mr President! Earlier in the debate, Mr Paatero assured us that the increase in employment was due to an increase in exports. Perhaps, Mr Paatero, the growth in exports is important for Finland’s competitiveness. And perhaps this competitiveness of Finland has been affected by the Competitiveness Pact. Think about these things. Well, then, this is the question of the employment law of a small entrepreneur. I do not understand how the SAK has engaged in outright lying when it rejects this government's attempt to lower the threshold of employment in the smallest companies, that is to say, how dare it be said to the Finnish people that there is now a law going on in which small companies could be completely arbitrarily or just or for no reason or because of an employee's injured hand in an accident at work. This is bullshit. While the government is still working on these details, it is important to see that a proper and weighty argument is always required in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u298	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Minister has listened to the opposition's criticism and that third sector players are increasing this ceiling on pay support, rising from 3000 to 4000. But what I wonder is the same as Mr Paatero: what is the reason why there should be such an upper limit? Now to this active model one. Now you're bringing in the active model number two, and even the active model number one has run-in defects that haven't been fixed. For example, a person who receives labour market support and is sick for a long time: he/she moves to Kela’s sickness allowance and holds a year’s disability pension, and after that year he/she returns to an unemployed job seeker and the active model strikes him back if he/she is unable to work — but he/she is unable to work part-time. Since when do you fix these drain defects from the active model one?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u299	Mr President! In his presentation, the Minister stated that Finland must continue along the path of reform. That's right. Labour life reforms must continue, and that is absolutely essential. More flexibility in working life is needed. It will also enable growth in the future. In addition to capital financing, perhaps such a key obstacle to business growth is the lack of a skilled workforce. Matching training plays an extremely important role. But I ask the Minister when I have received a message from the municipalities that there are major problems with the employment offices to recruit new employees in companies: are the staff and employment offices of the Employment Office so rigid at the moment that they do not want to cooperate with the municipalities that they actually get employees in companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u300	And Mr Sem's reply, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u301	Mr President! I will mention this situation of the long-term unemployed. It's still bad for us, and I thought Lex Lindström number two was a good decision. And then the second good decision was to give them the opportunity to employ more, but I do not think it is a sufficient decision, because we are not using these employment funds. However, when this situation is so acute for the long-term unemployed that they should in some way be made fit for work and work, I think that there should be much more of these job opportunities offered by the organisations. This means, firstly, that the long-term unemployed are able to keep themselves in better working conditions, then, on the one hand, they are not excluded, and, on the other hand, they are likely to find interesting new learning in that area. That is a good and important subject, and that is why I would like the Minister to consider how to support organisations through these wage subsidies decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u302	Minister, like the previous minister, four minutes — you can choose a place according to what your desires suggest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u303	Thank you, Mr President. The moods brought me to this toilet. If I start here where Mr Paatero started, that is, these employment experiments — many of them have spoken in connection with this. He used this wording that which ideology is behind this. Here is the government's joint decision on what kind of growth services legislation is,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u310	The debatable continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u311	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Lindström, for the report and for the many good actions that have been taken. However, when coming from Pirkanmaa, I would like to continue to call on us in Pirkanmaa to have particularly good results from these experiments. The human face-to-face encounter with the long-term unemployed has produced a very good result. The point is that it would be very good if this model, which has been found to be good, and also the enthusiasm it brings with it and the real way of doing things, could continue there until the next pilot legislation comes into force. In that sense, then, the representatives of Pirkanmaa have been very united in their appeal. But then another point that was raised earlier: facilitating the employment of people with disabilities and people with disabilities. Many of them also have much to offer for working life. When I think of the need for will and attitude, for a small hand extension, what is the idea of facilitating the employment of those who are able to work and those with disabilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u312	Mr. Speaker! According to the name of the Section for Employment and the Economy, there is also the counterpart of the current Ministry of Employment and the Economy here. I would therefore like to say, as President, that we are very pleased with the work of Minister Lindström and the cooperation that we have had with us. The Minister's personal competence and courage in this Chamber to defend the decisions taken, the decisions of the government, have been admirable. The Minister has already raised this problem in his own speech. I would just like to mention that the availability of skilled labour from abroad to Finland has received additional millions, and it is a very important part of this diversity and competence in Finnish business life and also here in the mobility of labour. 120,000 new workers are a huge achievement for one minister. There's a government behind it, but the Minister's own efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u313	Mr President! I hope that the Minister will ask whether it is in favour of reducing the protection against dismissals being brought here to Parliament. There is no effective evidence of the employment impact of the draft law and the government itself has assessed its proposal as follows, almost a direct quotation: ‘Although a change in the law on the threshold for dismissal would have a significant positive impact on the employment threshold for small enterprises,there would be no significant increase in the employment rate on the basis of an economic research. Studies show that reforms could increase new jobs, but at the same time they could also increase redundancies.” So this is the government's own text. Why should an impact assessment be carried out in general if the assessments are not followed if the results do not please the government itself?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u314	Mr President! I too agree with these thanks given to the Minister for Labour here in the Chamber. The government has made good promises to act as Minister of Labour during this term of government, and Minister Lindström has certainly done very well in his work. We were talking about employment trials, and this is certainly an important issue for the cities involved in these employment experiments. But when it is reported that these employment experiments will be abandoned and transferred to growth service pilots, the question arises whether something will change for us in the cities and municipalities that have not been involved in the employment trials. How are the T.Y.P.s going to go in the future? When a minister is this kind of minister speaking folk language, clear, understandable, speaking English, then I would ask here: will anything change in these municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u315	Mr President! There have been extensive speeches and even arguments here about employment growth and who is responsible for this growth in employment. I think that we should take into account who has made this growth in employment possible through their actions, for which we are all very happy. Let us not seek the guilty, because this is an opportunity for the entire Finnish people. In this regard, the representatives of Pirkanmaa in particular have also taken a strong position on this employment experiment, and there is a great deal of concern about the way forward. The Minister has just answered these questions, and quite a lot is a promise for the future that those 21 new employment experiments will give opportunities, but there are also some concerns about the way in which the real motivation of the municipalities will then remain in these experiments, because this is now a good example of the fact that the money that the municipality invests in it is actually effectively going to improve employment. This is also a big concern in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u316	Mr President! Unemployment has fallen, but according to the VM's estimate, growth prospects from next year are weak. We need action that has an impact and its effectiveness can be verified. It seems that we are now wasting resources on actions that do not support this priority, as many expert opinions have shown. Economic growth itself helps those who already have a good chance of finding employment. I am therefore concerned about those who do not do so and who need special support. As far as long-term unemployment is concerned, the measures have been inadequate, just as the Minister himself has said. So, Minister, do you have any idea how the government intends to tackle this problem? Do you have any idea why the government has not taken account of the Growth Services Act in preparing its problems for employment management? And do you have any idea why the government has not taken up the SDP's proposals to promote employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u317	President! Minister Lindström will be in history as a Minister for Labour, who is active and productive. The list of measures is long. Although they have been criticized by the opposition, the results speak. But I am actually asking the Minister: is the Minister aware of the events and of the real reason for them that when companies have demanded specific training and training providers have said that they have the capacity to organise, the feedback received shows that the fact that the TE Offices have been passively motivated by the fact that these trainings have not been completed or have not been completed or have not been completed? It is precisely this feedback that has come from employers and then from education providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u318	Mr President! According to the estimates of the STM, Finland has around 600,000 people who are able to work, of whom 240,000 on unemployment pension and 300000 on work. Some unemployed job seekers will certainly never be placed in an open labour market, but it would be important for society and humanely that they too should be able to work and work for more than one year with a pay subsidy — it will not last longer. It is indeed a good thing that the maximum wage subsidy should be increased from 3000 person-years to 4000. This is a good start. This is something we have been pushing for a long time, and we may be pleased with, but next we need a broader debate on the use of pay subsidies in the future. Minister Lintilä, should we not head towards a permanent intermediate labour market where, in certain cases, wage support could be permanent employment support?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u319	Mr President! Now we are looking for ways to get as many Finns as possible to work, and here are the proposals presented by Minister Lindström. SAK has entered a rather special campaign with a person who has been injured at the workplace. He comes to the black figure, and the black figure, which is likely to describe the responsible Finnish entrepreneur in the rhetoric of the SAK, says: “A dangerous machine? Attitude is dangerous. Get out!’ I'd like to ask the Minister for Labour:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u322	I give the Minister one minute to address this particular question on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u323	Mr President! I don't even need a minute to answer this: Of course not, now and in the future this is not possible. Of course I regret that the situation has come to this end. I don't have any passion for going out here in public and fencing with anyone. It would be essential to find a constructive solution to move forward, as Finland does not need any work-related peace disputes. We need peace of work here, and tomorrow, next, the Ministers for Competitiveness are going through these issues and what is the room for manoeuvre, and of course we are also in dialogue with the social partners. It's obvious. This was, of course, sad that this went so far — without any further comment on this content.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u325	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Lindström, you have done well in your own area, and these employment developments, which have gone in a positive direction across the country, are indeed pleasant to look at. Of course, many of the speeches here have raised this issue of access to skilled labour, which must continue to be given more and more attention. This draft budget now assumes that a budget of 3 million will be allocated to the sub-regions to cover the state, municipalities and businesses. Of course, this appropriation is very small, and perhaps it would have been, and it will be good to think about, that now that the municipalities have to pay these fines — up to EUR 400 million for the long-term unemployed last year — this money could in some way, at least some of it, be allocated to these concrete measures to alleviate unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u326	Mr President! I'm going to go first with a thank-you. In other words, it is important to promote the reception of short-term work and to dismantle red tape traps. It's important. Lex Lindström 2 is a good thing that allows older unemployed people to retire in a row. It doesn't make sense to hang them on the unemployment card. What is also great is that it is implemented to transform the non-owner family member of an entrepreneur into an employee, which makes it possible for the family member of an entrepreneur to be entitled to unemployment benefit. This too is an important reform. But then we have to take a stand on this weakening of the protection against dismissal, since this affects more than 90% of the country's 350,000 companies and 200,000 employees. I would like to ask you, Minister: have you carried out a gender impact assessment in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u327	Mr President! The Minister mentioned in his speech that you were somewhat sorry about this public fencing. This public fencing would not be necessary at all if and when things were being carried forward in the trio. Representative Elo here earlier praised the fact that the active model has worked for some unemployed people. That is an example of a situation when the conditions for an unemployed active model are being run by very small-scale businesses, with income levels of around 300 euros a month, and it is then interpreted as a main effort, and the possibility of earnings dependency is also cut. Is this an unreasonable interpretation or a reasonable interpretation, in the opinion of the Minister? And then, to go back to this municipal experiment: So a functioning system, a well-tested model, a lot of extremely good feedback. Since you, the Minister and the Government, are coming to the line of government parties
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u328	Mr President! During this parliamentary term it has been wonderful to listen to the Minister for Labour, whose speech most often makes sense and makes sense. I would like to raise one point here: this regional inequality, that is, Finland is strongly dividing in two. We have a lot of building-up problems in the area of Eastern Finland and usually on that side, and on the other side it seems that if you lose your job, you start three companies. This division in Finland is very striking through various statistics as they are studied. Are there specific targeted measures to eliminate this inequality? As far as the third sector is concerned, the third sector is a good and uncomplicated supporter for many people who are able to work, many who may come back from a long period of unemployment to work. My question is: how to introduce the third sector even more strongly
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u329	Mr President! It is good to agree with this previous speech from the point of view that in Eastern Finland this development in employment, although it has also been positive, has not started to rise in the same way as in Western Finland. And I would like to ask the Minister for Labour: is there any Eastern Finland package or such programme that could answer this challenging question for us? Very little has also been said about immigration and integration — I know that they are also within the ministry’s remit. Is there any news for us there that would improve the implementation of this integration and better integration of immigrants into Finnish society?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u330	Mr President! I would also like to extend warm thanks to the Minister for Labour. For his part, he has done a great deal of work to improve this employment. And what a pleasure it is that youth unemployment and, above all, long-term unemployment have decreased. But we know that not everyone is employed. It is good that there is this kind of national assessment of the ability to work, in which you go through it personally, whether you are a long-term unemployed worker or whether you should receive rehabilitation or whether you should become a social worker. So this is a very important issue. In view of the shortage of skilled experts in many workplaces, it is good to start these short-term training courses. Hopefully, as many young people as possible will be able to do so. And now about this integration. At least it is my wish that immigrant women should also be included in this integration, when it is often men. When women have access to such education or other activities,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u331	Mr President! For the last fifteen years, most of my working time has passed since the monitoring of the unemployment benefit system and the fragmented labour market, and during this period, progress has only been worse, and this same career will continue in this budget: social security bureaucracy will become even stronger. The unfairness of the active model is not solved. The bad planning of the experiments continues. The situation of those who are able to work is not resolved. I am talking here about people who would like to take part in working life but who will not be able to do so because the work in the low-wage sector does not allow for the adjustment that they need in order to be fully involved in working life and who are not in the Lex Lindström area because they do not want to retire. In a liberal country, employment should primarily be possible, only then will people be forced and controlled. Is there any visible light in the darkness now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u332	Mr President! Minister, it was at that diner just a moment ago that I signed Mr Satose's bill on this continuation of the employment experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u333	Mr President! I too will return to this weakening of the protection against dismissal and its effects. It would be nice to know, Minister Lindström, if there have been any impact assessments on whether companies with fewer than 20 people are going to have such passage points. They will no longer be attractive jobs, but young people will go there only while they wait to get into bigger businesses. That good workforce will not be long-term in developing that small business, but will move on to a larger one. And for what? Then when that kid wants a mortgage, does the bank watch if you're in a small business that you're part-time? When there is less protection against dismissal, then it is not considered as if it were a permanent job. How, then, does it affect the creation of young families, whether children are to be made, whether there is no more certainty than in a permanent job?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u334	Mr President! I'd like to continue my integration. It has turned out that those immigrants who want to learn languages are offered Finnish or Swedish education. However, in many sectors Finland is able to work in a relatively narrow English language. A person who does not know whether he or she is entitled to asylum or permanent residence in Finland is quite differently motivated to learn English than Finnish or Swedish. At workplaces, such a person can perform many tasks, when even someone with limited English skills is much more useful than someone who has not even wanted to learn Finnish or Swedish properly. Often at these workplaces another employee also speaks Finnish, especially if one wants to, and is forced to hear it. In my opinion, this should be modernised in terms of language training so that if an asylum seeker wants to learn the English language, it would also be offered to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u335	Mr President! One of the crown jewels of the ministry you run is the prohibition of a zero-hour contract for a citizens' initiative to be converted into a well-functioning variable working time agreement. It is a good example of how to make a good, bearing solution to a major problem. You have also participated in tailoring the basic income experiment, which is intended to promote the taking of work. Now I would have asked: how do you see that the real-time income register coming from the beginning of next year could be developed in order to integrate it into the whole of unemployment and social security so that it would then be easier to take up work in combination with both of them? Is there a need for regional income solutions in order to maintain the ability of the citizen to function as a fully-fledged citizen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u336	Mr President! I would also like to return to this regional employment experiment and its abolition. Tampere says that the experiment has been successful because the unemployed person has been involved in helping and is connected with the city's social and health services and also life support services. In Tampere, before this experiment, only one out of five unemployed people have received such support services to promote employment, but two out of five unemployed people, i.e. twice the number, have been employed during this experiment. After all, municipalities have a much stronger incentive than regions to help unemployed people find jobs because it is reflected in municipal tax revenue. In the regional model planned by the government, the provinces have neither the right nor the incentive to tax. Why do you want to wreck a system where incentives are right and the experiment has shown,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, this time limit is running out. I would also like to give a reply to the representatives of Nurminen, Suutari, Hoskonen, Torvinen, Satonen and then the minister as much as time is left. If not, then the minister will be granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u338	Mr President! I think, Minister, your decision not to continue the experiment in Tampere is to lose resources. These good examples and others have been brought up here, and I think that the fact that it is now being driven down is a waste of resources. When you were talking about the growth services and the growth services pilots that are now being taken forward by us in committee for your sake, could you open them up a little bit more? This is where more employment services are now being transferred to the market, and the company can indeed make an assessment of the need for services for the unemployed and also produce these services. But what if this company just informs the province that he has not participated in this service, or has not taken part in it? I'm going to have a heart attack right now. So, what is the way to get the province to exercise its responsibilities, but not the companies? What if this unemployed person doesn't take part in the work of this service provider's rental company?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u339	Mr President! In the development of the labour market, Minister Lindström is a man in order. Secondly, companies with fewer than 20 people have, according to my own experience, more than 30 years of work on the site, and also statistics show that the best working environment is the best. Then, thirdly, I would have intervened in this separation of Eastern and Western Finland, which was mentioned earlier. Compared to employment in Kainuu, for example, there is a 62% employment rate for men, although there is 71 for women. No matter how far it goes down by 10% of unemployment, there will still be 7,000 to 8,000 men outside the labour market. I'd like to ask who's handling this. I don't think they're all incapacitated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u340	Mr President! My warmest thanks, too, to Minister Lindström for his excellent work. He is a minister in plain language, and I have made every word of it clear to him. In my opinion, Mr Laukkanen was somewhat modest in his manners. But what I wanted to say to the minister is that when I have been travelling and hearing these stories in different municipalities in North Karelia, when municipalities pay for municipal sections of labour market support, there the various employment coordinators do a good job looking for every single unemployed person in real life, they will be tailor-made to plan and everything ready, but surprise, surprisingly many people refuse to work. I thought to ask you, when this is part of it, this is the most serious example of the problem of the encounter, that there should be work but there is no one to go to the workplace, whether there is a chance of some sort of greater cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, so that something really can be done about this. You can't leave these people at home on the corner of the couch, but you have to tailor them to a job they're interested in, and they have to get involved in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u341	Mr President! I can't help but keep talking about Jarpa. Jarppa is the first such minister for years, for years, who hasn't done this kind of socialism in retroactivity, so if a good thing doesn't go forward and you can't find it with the left and ay movement in the consensus, it won't be taken forward. That's good. One of the things we have talked about here is precisely this problem of encounters. So, what kind of action do you have? One more thing: 350,000 unemployed, there are even such people as job seekers as “unable job seekers”. What are they gonna do with them? The second is, of course, this important integration of immigrants. They're very entrepreneurial. Do you have any bets on that? And third: The government has put forward a proposal to stop the employment experiments. Now a representative of the Government Party is gathering votes against the government. In terms of government cooperation, how would you assess Mr. Satonen's proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u342	There, Mr Satonen, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u343	Mr President! I would like to thank you for the support that has come to this continuation of the employment experiment — but it did not come from the previous speech — even though it has come from a direction which has not normally come. But now I wish... When it comes to such a serious issue, how do our long-term unemployed get those services, and when we together have made reforms here, where we expect more of the unemployed, we must also be able to provide them with services. In my opinion, this is not at all a government or opposition position, and this is not just a matter for Pirkanmaa, although this is a very important issue in Pirkanmaa. This is the whole of Finland's business now that this matter can be sorted out. I would also like to thank Minister Lindström for the opportunity for discussion,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u344	A few more Members have just come up, asking for the floor, but is the importance of burning fire? Quite slowly, all the representatives rose when they asked for it, and I will give the floor to Minister Lindström. — Minister Lindström, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u345	Mr President! Thank you. — Thank you for the debate. A proper conversation, even if we disagree. I shall start now with this employment experiment and this example, this alliance model, which is what this is all about. Thus, for each of these 21 billboards — they are billboards so far — there are examples on the website of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which can easily be found there. In Satakunta, there is an idea for job seekers who have received more than 200 days of labour market support — this is the target group — whose professional capacity would enable them to find employment through enhanced services, and this would be the target group of such a thousand people. There would be 200 customers from the Rauma region, 200 from South-East Finland, from North-Satakunta to personal services in the TE offices of these regions. The main implementation of this would be such a result-based purchasing service — that is, even today a lot of buying services are used. It could possibly be an ESF project. There has been thought of entrepreneurship and the transition to the service provider, and in this alliance model the municipalities would be involved. It would be appropriate to carry out this project in some respects, and then this alliance's approach could be tested here, i.e. to do things in the forthcoming regional reform, the growth service reform. If anyone disagrees ideologically with that, I am not surprised that you are opposed to this. But once the government has decided that the growth service will be carried forward with its content as it is here in Parliament, this is the contradiction that is being discussed all the time. I am not an ideological opponent here, but I am defending what the government has decided together. But then this big question: part-time, disability program. There has been a lot of talk here about this Lex Lindström — that is, I have not given this name myself. The bigger thing here is the disability program. There are many different measures under it that need to be promoted not only by this government but also by the next government, because we all believe that 75% and more of people are likely to have to work. That is exactly what the disability programme means. It is one of the ways to tackle these long-term unemployed people, who are more in employment. In addition, a social security reform is needed and a real-time income register is needed. If we solve these problems, we solve many problems, but this alone is not enough. Then there is the kind of debate that I have had many times in this Chamber. There has been a call here for the promotion of local reconciliation, for the abandonment of needs, and for someone who has even flashed the apostasy of universality — so I have not flashed. But this is the debate that this society must dare to have if Finland wants us to have an employment rate of between 75% and 80%. If these are the way forward, then we will be much closer to these goals. But it is not by acting in such a way that we can go forward, that taxpayers' money is shoved everywhere and that it is trying to solve these problems, but rather in the same way — I agree with the SDP —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u346	Thank you to Minister Lindström — and then we go to another ministry. These things will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u347	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In next year's budget proposal, the Ministry of the Environment's section will perhaps bring the biggest and most significant additional effort and the measure will be the financing of the Baltic Sea and water protection: EUR 15 million more. It overdoubles the amount to be spent on water protection, and the three-year package prepared by the government at this level is a very significant, unprecedented investment in water protection. The aim is to curb nutrient leaching in food production using the results of key projects, to repair urban waste water systems, to strengthen aquatic biodiversity by refurbishing wetlands and birdwaters, and marine research will also be stepped up with this money. It is also hoped that it will be possible to get the oil wrecks at the bottom of the Baltic Sea out of danger. The funding already increased for this year of the Metso Programme will continue at the same level next year, at EUR 16 million. Overall, EUR 26.6 million is proposed for the purchase and replacement of new nature reserves. Finnish nature is close to Finnish minds. The number of visitors to recreational areas and national parks has been growing rapidly in recent years. There is also a need for service equipment. That is why the government is investing more in the maintenance of natural parks, nature reserves and national parks. Overall, the contribution is EUR 31.6 million. An increase of about two million compared to the spending limits level was agreed in the budget debate, and it is used to cover the repair debt of various routes and service equipment. On the housing policy side, we will continue to produce strong social housing. The interest subsidy authorisation for state-subsidised social housing production remains at the level of the current year, at EUR 1.41 billion. It allows the construction of about 9000 new dwellings with this state support element involved. We talk about the affordable housing that all Finns should then be able to afford. Still here in housing policy there is the state's own tool, A-Kruunu, a company that is focused on building affordable homes. It will be capitalised with EUR 50 million. Not only is this now possible for increased activity in the Helsinki region, but it is also planned to extend this area to the rest of the country. Investment grants of EUR 110 million are proposed to support the construction and repair of housing for special groups. Special groups include students and different people who need more extensive services. EUR 35.5 million will be reserved for renovation grants, mainly to support the retrofitting of lifts and the renovation of elderly and disabled dwellings. Mr President! In the field of energy policy, there are a few things from the Department of Energy of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy worth picking up: The authorisation of energy aid will be increased to a total of EUR 80 million. This provides for the preparation of a legislative proposal to implement that government's ambitious objective of 30 % of all the liquid fuel for sale by 2030 to be renewable, so that, if we hope that these investments will begin in the next few years, we will be able to support these investments where appropriate. Aid for the production of renewable energy, which is an estimate allocation, depends on the evolution of the price of allowances and depends on the evolution of electricity prices. Overall, it is a significant sum of EUR 261 million to promote wind power, biogas power, forest chips electricity. It is notable here that the forecasts for the sum of these renewable subsidies are much lower than in the past, since the repair shops that have been carried out for emissions trading work. Allowance prices are rising, they are already driving towards renewables, and the amount of support needed is thus decreasing. Electronic transport and the use of biogas for transport and the infrastructure supporting it will also be promoted next year. We have this aid for the purchase of electronic transport, and that infrastructure aid will be directed both at housing companies for the construction of charging points and then at the construction of biogas stations outside gas transmission and distribution networks and at the piloting and demonstration of new electronic transport technologies. Here are the top picks, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u348	Thank you for the presentation, and now I would ask those Members who wish to use the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u349	Mr President! During this government's term, the budget for nature conservation has fallen to about half of what was before and the powers of environmental management have been weakened. In climate policy, the government has some undeniable merit, including the intention not yet materialised as a legislative proposal, to ban the use of coal by the end of the next decade and to support the tightening of the EU's emissions targets, but the blind spot of the government seems to be the significance of carbon sinks in forests. The background report of the Government's own energy and climate strategy states that if forest felling increases as planned by the Government, carbon sinks in forests will decrease so much that it will nullify emissions reductions in all other sectors, including transport. This same message is, in fact, even stronger in the report to the UN. I think the government should look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u350	Madam President! It is easy to agree with what Mr Hassi has said. Thanks therefore deserve to be given to the resources earmarked for improving the state of the Baltic Sea, to national parks and to capitalise on A-Kruunu. I am sure that the credit is also due to the fact that the interest subsidies will remain the same — although the current economic cycle will make it so expensive to build that the ARA production will, however, fall short of the targets. The funding of the Metso programme will remain unchanged, and in this case the target schedule will obviously be maintained, I presume. Metso's role in biodiversity is absolutely central and, as we know, biodiversity is shrinking at a shocking pace. At the moment we have 2,200 endangered species, with 1,500 at the turn of the millennium. This figure tells of the rate of acceleration of the situation getting worse, and when a species can only die once, there is talk of irreversible damage. In terms of diversity, forests and decay wood play a crucial role. Should we not increase Metso in this situation, increase its ambition and increase its resources if we want to take responsibility for the loss of diversity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u351	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Investing in the Baltic Sea and water protection is very important, and I personally hope that there will also be euros available to improve the state of water bodies in Inland Finland. But then I would like to address the second sector of the Minister, which is, in fact, an important issue for employment, construction and, in particular, housing. During this term of government, planning and building standards have been greatly reduced and construction has also been made busy. It is now on a good level, but what it is in the future is the big problem. In fact, I would like to address the fact that, in my opinion, housing policy is currently too divided between different ministries: the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. How does the Minister see how improvements can be made in the future? Finally, this overall reform of the Land Use and Construction Act. How does the Minister see it, let's hurry it up next year too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u352	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation and good cooperation. First of all, thank you for your water protection. The Baltic Sea and inland waters are important to all of us, and I am sure that, in the light of the experiences of this summer, they will also be appropriate, and the support of the people will be there. Metso money was mentioned here. As I understand it, Metso's funding has now been secured forward as planned, and we can be confident about that. There's been a bit of a slip in the years between here and there, but now I understand things are all right. If they're not, I'm sure the minister will fix it. Then I would like to thank you for this budgeting for sustainable development, which has been introduced as a pioneer country in Finland, for a second year, and it will certainly develop from this point of view. We do not have a prepared model, but this is where it is done, and I would also like to hear the Minister's views on how this model will work and how it will be taken forward in the future. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u355	Madam President! After all, the government has already acknowledged that Finland will not really remain in its UN commitment to halt the decline in biodiversity by 2020. In this situation, the need for conservation efforts increases further the government's line of support for the growth of truly massive felling targets. Representative Kiuru here praised the return of Metso funding to a secure level. I do not think it is quite so. When, at the end of the previous Government term in 2015, more than EUR 30 million of Metso funds were available annually and now EUR 16 million, almost half of which is less, there is still room for improvement. The Ministry of the Environment’s operational performance targets for next year include developing the protection and management of forests, bogs and wetlands through voluntary means and strengthening the protection of species and habitats on the basis of endangered assessments. I would ask the Minister: Would it not be wise to continue the successful campaign launched in Finland’s centenary year for Finland’s ‘gift to the nature of Finland’, where many communities,other large-scale owners,congregations,are left behind?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u356	Madam President! The Baltic Sea effort deserves praise, but climate policy and the protection of biodiversity do not deserve it in this budget. It has already been stated here that the funding of the Metso programme has nearly halved. The same has happened to the acquisition of nature reserves. And both these funds are extremely important when it comes to the conservation of carbon sinks, which is our Achilles' heel in climate policy and the preservation of biodiversity. In Finland, the state of habitats has deteriorated by an average of 60 per cent compared to the state of nature. We are really in a state of emergency here. Then, on housing policy, I would say that it is wonderful that this A-Kruonu of the last government and its work have received the support it deserves from the government. Instead, I see that this ten-year interest subsidy, which was supposed to be the jewel of housing policy in this government, has hardly started.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u357	Madam President! It's a good show on all sides. One thing I am raising here is because it is close to my heart, and it is this repair money for lifts that is here, but for some strange reason, once again, it has been forgotten to repair old lifts unhindered. Again, here in these terms, it has been mentioned that lifts can be installed in houses without lifts, i.e. after installation elevators. But these accessibility issues do not seem to be at the forefront of the ministry. I hope that in committee this issue will be taken into account again and that this appropriation can also be used to repair an old lift without obstacles. It is also much cheaper than many other repairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u358	Mr President! This parliamentary term has caused a lot of environmental issues to move forward. Thank you very much, Mr Tiilikainen, for this parliamentary term has been very sustainable. To date, sustainable development has been on the agenda, and now also in this budget, sustainable development is on the agenda. The most important thing is that we take responsibility for the common environment, i.e. nature is not just a museum, but must be used responsibly. Agriculture, forestry, tourism, all of them — we produce important things for our lives, but we also have to protect them. We need to be in balance with nature, which is to leave the environment in a better condition for children than we have had it ourselves. This programme has, however, been tremendously advanced throughout the parliamentary term. Here, in particular, I would also like to say yes to the issue of coal, or forestry. Over the last 50 years, the carbon sink of forests has actually increased, at least double.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u360	Mr President! As a passionate protector of the Baltic Sea, I am particularly pleased that EUR 15 million will come from improving the state of the Baltic Sea and improving other waters and by 2021 a total of 45 million, which is an historic contribution, thank you. Unfortunately, our aid for water protection is not effective enough, and it is very important, I think it is necessary for Parliament to monitor closely how these funds are allocated, so that they are effectively allocated, and I hope that the Minister for the Environment will open it up here. The gypsum is a good tool, it is worth using, but then, for example, we need to think about grubbing up fields for the application of manure — is there going to be any further action to control this kind of climate-disturbing issue? Finland has slipped away from the Baltic Sea Protection Programme, unfortunately, but not as much as other countries. I therefore ask when we were the HELCOM presidency now and I think we are still: What measures did Finland take to ensure that other Baltic Sea countries, the Baltic basins, took action? For example, could HELCOM’s recommendations include an increase in the use of plaster? It is important that, in all international arenas, our country's ministers and we decision-makers speak for the protection of the Baltic Sea. The Baltic Sea is a vital issue for all of us Finns, especially its purity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u361	Madam President! There is a lot of good in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, when Finns want to move around in nature, this money for Metsähallitus' nature services is certainly very important, and there has been a lot of publicity about it. I am a little surprised at this debate about forests that carbon sinks would get worse if fellings were made. On the contrary, when they are reformed, the carbon balance will only increase. I'm sure you have a little misinformation about how much forests are growing today this year. It's 115 million cubic metres. I'm sure you have some misinformation. But I want to bring up this wood construction. For some reason, maybe the Minister knows that, too. It is good, of course, that progress has now been made, but I would stress that companies have played a key role in promoting wood construction, and now, of course, would like the Ministry to catch up on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u362	Madam President! I'm gonna jump out of here for indoor air problems. To begin with, three quotes: ‘Children cannot go to school because they immediately “I was convicted of having a mental health ‘I want my mother I'm sure we'll all get these feedbacks. The Government has launched the Healthy Spaces Action Programme 2028, but we Members of Parliament know that these are rarely managed solely by programmes. How, as Minister, do you see the ability of the municipalities to deal with this major problem in your ten-year target period, with the non-existent resources that the government has provided for this at all? Then there is another matter: Metsähallitus Nature Sites and National Parks. In spite of the small increase in funding — but this is the last budget proposal from this government — I ask the Minister: what grade do you give on the condition in which you leave it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u363	Madam President! This increase in the protection money for the Baltic Sea is important, but I would remind you that the whole system of environmental aid for agriculture must also be reformed on a more sustainable basis, and I hope that the Minister will be active here as well. National parks need new structures. More national parks are also needed. Here in the capital region, Nuuksio National Park and Sipoonkorvi National Park are in huge use. The next national park is a good place to get to a seaside Carrot farm. The loss of biodiversity is an issue that should be in your thinking and finding solutions on a daily basis. The supplementary programme for soil protection, which was abolished last season, is one of the key things that can be saved by the dwindling nature of the marsh. The budget for the acquisition of protected areas should be raised to at least the level of the previous regime, and much more must be done to protect species.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u364	Madam President! There has now been a debate on the state and direction of Finland's climate policy. The situation is that Finland's climate emissions, carbon dioxide emissions, fell even in the previous year, even though the use of total energy grew. From this and many other points, it can be concluded that Finland’s climate policy is quite effective compared to many other EU countries, where the situation has been the opposite, although it is considered quite progressive in terms of climate policy. There is also the situation, as has already been pointed out in this debate, that emissions trading will start to bite for a long time, because the price of allowances is rising. I would have asked the Minister: what are the effects of this emission trading on the Finnish energy sector and, above all, on energy prices? Secondly, is this control effect on emissions trading sufficient to increase the use of domestic renewable fuels, or is further action perhaps needed now that preparations are being made for the next regime?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u365	Madam President! I too would like to thank Minister Tiilika for her many good actions. Among other things, the situation in the Baltic Sea, which is a unique sea, and the protection of our waters must be better taken care of. Hopefully, other countries around the Baltic Sea will be closely involved. Mr Taimela has already raised that programme of measures for healthy indoor spaces, and I would have liked to ask the Minister where it is going in practice and whether, with this programme of measures, there has been a gradual increase in confidence and good cooperation all over Finland. Then there is the agricultural situation. After all, the 30 million from the Ministry was given to the crisis in agriculture, but we thought it was very small. At the summer meeting at the end of August, the KD delegation presented a much more significant immediate crisis package of EUR 100 million. What is the situation there in agriculture now, and is the Minister really taking up the problem of agricultural profitability more effectively so that it will continue to be productive?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u366	Mr President! Two things: the Baltic Sea and indoor air problems. Firstly, it is very good that we now have 45 million for the protection of the Baltic Sea for three years, but of course we have to think that it is only first aid and that longer-term measures are needed. Of course, the central point is that too much fertilizer is no longer being collected in the fields and therefore in the watercourses, but this is of course a question for Finland that we are here to resolve. Of course, there are other countries around the Baltic Sea. Have you, Minister, had a debate with other countries on how to influence these issues jointly? Then there are these indoor air problems. The Healthy Spaces programme is good, but there is a special need for sharing good practice in schools and kindergartens. Suddenly, those builders disappear far away from where they have acted when problems arise, and the municipalities are left alone with these problems. This requires shared good practices and assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u367	Madam President! I too would like to thank you very much for the additional money that has been put forward for protecting the Baltic Sea and the waters. It now amounted to 15 million for next year and then two times 15 million for the following years. This money for protection can be used, for example, to improve the recycling of nutrients in fields and to restore wetlands and catchment areas. There is a lot of talk about the Baltic Sea, and its condition is something that needs to be done, but if we think that our lakes will eventually run into the Baltic Sea, then it is really important that we also look after the condition of our lakes, and that is what this money is meant to do. With regard to this climate debate, I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen about international action, international blackmail. Finland has now been on the front line in demanding, among other things, a carbon ban and other strict emission restrictions among the progressive climate countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u368	Mr President! I would also like to supplement this debate on carbon sinks. After all, in the spring of last year a number of prominent researchers published an assessment of what needs to be done globally to mitigate climate change. It is the opinion of these researchers that in every decade from now on global emissions must be halved in order to achieve the climate objective of the Paris Agreement. This means that we must act very quickly. From this point of view, it is a very good thing that the government has supported the strengthening of emissions targets in the EU. But there is absolutely no conflict with the fact that the government in the EU has advocated a method of calculating carbon sinks that would cover the visible decline in carbon sinks and, in Finland too, it has been silent that, although carbon sinks have now grown in the past years,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u369	Madam President! First of all, thank you very quickly for the fact that after ten years of twisting, horse manure will begin to return to energy use — thanks to Minister Tiilikainen. Then there is the Baltic Sea issue, and thank you for that too. In particular, as Mr Kosonen pointed out, it is important to take care of inland waters, because that is where the nutrients come towards the Baltic Sea. All right, let's get some ammo in there. Several national parks have been established. We have all always been in favour of — they are valuable — increasing them. It is important that together we also take care of Metsähallitus' resources for nature services, and now they are being increased. 40 national parks — EUR 1 placed there will come back tenfold. Mr President! The last one to be built. Much good has been achieved in the area of construction, and it is good that funding is being increased for the MALs, i.e. land use, housing and transport. It is precisely where transport connections are good that public transport works, and that is what is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u370	Madam President! This discussion of carbon sinks does give rise to enormous amazement. It is incomprehensible when forest research has been carried out in Finland for over a hundred years and the statistics are incorruptible. We all have the right, of course, to our own opinions, but not to our own facts — it is strange. If we do not take care of our forests, such as the thinning of our forests, then the growth of our forests will begin to fall, and this green left wet daydream, so that we can get the forests into the condition that everyone is old forests, there is nothing moving, there will produce emissions, because there the tree rots more than it grows in a year. Come on, people, at least face the facts. The second point concerns the state of the Baltic Sea. Emissions from the countryside are always blamed, although at the same time it is completely blindly forgotten that when the waste water treatment plant in the city of Helsinki is disrupted every year, not when the hatches open and huge amounts of waste water, hundreds of thousands, even a million people, run directly into the Gulf of Finland. Do these have anything to do with eutrophication in the Baltic Sea? Would it ever be worth paying attention to what is closest and large? We'll have time to fix the little ones later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u371	Madam President! On the basis of the facts, there was a call for discussion of the climate. The fact is that the sinks have decreased during this reign. The fact is that government policies allow sinks to be halved until the 2030s. This is in the government's own papers. The fact is that when the reduction in sinks is compared to the emission reductions, the halving of sinks nullifies the emission reductions. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u372	Mr President! At least I can't teach anyone, and I think everyone's strong in their faith. But I could ask the minister: If you look into that history — because you don’t know where you’re coming from — you don’t know where you’re coming from — you’ve doubled the trees in Finland’s forests for a hundred years, and that’s probably how it’s grown that it’s doubled as to whether it’s 115 million cubic metres. And then, when we do open fellings, in general — I am not a forestry professional but I think — there are planted processed seedlings with a significantly better growth potential than if left in the natural state, it grows faster and binds more carbon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u375	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister again for the fine budget for next year. And, in fact, these objectives of the Ministry of the Environment are good. Good environment, diverse nature, carbon-neutral circular society and sustainable urban development create quite a lot of good elements within them. In fact, about that circular economy, that is, what we are, so to speak, using to activate citizens in this circle of circular economy, and then, in the second place, how we are developing these platforms or, let us say now, municipal and also private waste disposal facilities then to play an active part in this circular economy: we are quite a bit behind the EU in terms of the circular economy. I see this as important. And from that carbon bond, we will probably need a lesson, both left-wing union and perhaps the centre, that we distinguish between these, the sink and the warehouse. As a forest owner, I know these things too. But here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna go to the side of the field. Has the Ministry of the Environment, and also at international level, come up against this ability to absorb coal in fields, and how can it be activated? I, in the Nordic Council, raised this issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u376	Madam President! EUR 1500000 has been allocated for the construction of the electric charging infrastructure. We do not have many electric cars in Finland, but strict and unreasonable climate targets would require that we have much more electric cars in transport. By 2030, Finland will have the goal of having 250,000 electric cars. That means that we should have charging points in the flats, too, really, really, really much more. Now it has been estimated that there would be 2,000 more cars per year, and when five seats per housing company should be made, if that allowance is available, it will be 400 housing companies. But when we know that it will be much more expensive when we dig the yard and build places, there will probably not be many hundreds of houses. When they are distributed around Finland, it is very little about these things per city. Is this 1,000,000 just a wink that now these charging points are being supported?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u377	Madam President! I am a little concerned about the underbudgeting of Metsähallitus' nature services, which has been going on for quite many years. If I have not got it all wrong, it will not be corrected with this budget book. It is an excellent thing that there is something more in the frame for the maintenance of national parks. After all, the number of visitors to national parks and state hiking sites — which means that we have other areas where we visit, and there are routes in other nature centres — is such that there are more than 6 million visits per year, which means that money is actually needed for maintenance. But is this not the case that if over 31 million have been set aside for Metsähallitus’ public administration tasks — and so was last year, a little more than last year — then a little less is being reserved now and the long-standing underbudgeting of nature services will not be corrected with this effort? I myself visited that newly established Hossa National Park last summer, and when it turned from state camping to national park, the people of the guidance center told me that the number of visitors doubled. But we do have other areas than national parks. How can nature services maintain all this with this slight spending limits correction, while the budget from last year is slightly reduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u378	Let us take three more speeches and then the Minister will reply. We'll continue our debut after that. These three persons are representatives of Korhonen, Rantakangas and even then representative of Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u379	Mr President! Of course, when you look at the Ministry of the Environment, which has been excellently run by the Minister, it should be noted that many other ministries are also involved in this area in many ways. In other words, if we look at climate change issues, we need to look at budget proposals from ministries such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Three Ms. And when you look at this whole, the budget proposal for 2019, for example, promotes the objectives of carbon neutrality and resource wisdom with a total of more than EUR 1.7 billion, which means that the total is quite large. But, Minister, there is just one question that Mrs Torniainen has also drawn attention to, namely this whole zoning package. Now this Finnish zoning package is undergoing major renovations. How does this reform work now appear to be progressing here, especially when one considers that the future government is still in the process of being formed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u380	Mr President! Mr Tiilikainen and the government deserve a strong recognition of this energy policy and, in particular, of the efforts made to stop using renewable energy and coal over the next decades. They are important policy decisions which, at the same time, mean a great deal of work for the regions, the exploitation of our natural resources and, therefore, the construction of the entire welfare system. In this respect, it is a little strange to listen to the speeches that we should not be able to hack the forests. After all, we currently have about 60% of the growth, and in Sweden, for example, it is 80% felling. So that government's goal to increase the use of 15 million cubic metres of wood is completely realistic, and we have wood. We have very large new investment projects in Northern Finland and Eastern Finland, and if they were to be implemented, they would take this economy in a strong way. I hope that the Greens in that direction of the European Union will also sometimes bear this national interest in mind, which, however, is important for us taxpayers and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u381	Mr President! About this Metso money. This seems to be a little blurry all the time, and there is different information. I checked the Ministry of the Environment's website for a press release on February 21st this year. When it was said here that Metso money has decreased, it is quite true that Metso money has decreased if we look back enough years. But what is essential is whether or not the objectives of the hectares will be achieved. At least according to this press release from the Ministry and according to what I have heard in committee, the target is 96,000 hectares by 2025.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u384	Let us take Mr Pekkarinen here, because he has also asked for the floor, and then Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u385	Mr President! For so many years I answered these questions, that background just a few questions. The second point relates to this LULUCF. I will now ask the Minister how the Minister interprets this. The interpretation of LULUCF presented here — if your interpretation goes through, it really means a hard story for Finland that the carbon sink would be calculated as you have explained. However, the agreement has now remained open and is still negotiating how it will be calculated, for example, with regard to these nursing jobs, which will reduce our obligations to some extent. I'll ask the minister: What is the status of these negotiations at the moment? The beginning of what became of Brussels was reasonably good, but how has this further negotiation progressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u386	Then the minister will answer. You can talk about the place, or you can talk about the toilet, it doesn't matter. Three minutes, tops. Then we will proceed with the debate and the Minister's final answer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u387	Thank you, Mr President. The Baltic Sea and Water Protection Programme enjoys great support for thanks. In fact, in relation to Mr Sarkomaa's question, how is the Baltic Sea wider: Indeed, as Chairman of HELCOM, we are looking for the Baltic Sea Protection Programme to be updated during the Finnish Presidency. So it applies to all coastal states. In particular, we are pushing for two things: nutrient recycling and the efficient use of manure throughout the Baltic Sea and, secondly, taking into account the effects of climate change in the protection of the Baltic Sea. These are priorities in this HELCOM work. I thank many for their attention that inland waters deserve the same protection as the Baltic Sea. Then to this biodiversity and Metso. Indeed, those funds enable Metso to make good progress towards its goal. Of course, each year these appropriations have varied, and I am, of course, glad that we have now been able to make up for the slack that came in the early years of the parliamentary term. But surely, just as Mr Modig asked about this, the governments that will be there will still have a lot of work to do. And this possibility of promoting voluntary protection is a good idea. Of course, all landowners can afford it all the time, including communities. With regard to the use of forests, this question by Vice-President Pekkarinen on how the LULUCF debate is progressing: LULUCF debate is really about defining the calculated sink, and then if you look at the long-term goal of carbon neutrality, then it starts with this natural sink. Here, the way in which we think in Finland that we have the opportunity to increase the use of wood in a moderate and sustainable way is aimed at the level of the use of wood, which is very average among EU countries. In other words, Finland is in no way entering into some kind of exceptionally harsh use of forests. It is important for us to safeguard diversity, safeguard recreational values, safeguard carbon sinks in the long term. Forest resources have doubled in about 50 years, which means that the carbon stock has increased. Mathematically, carbon storage is an integral function, the throat is its derivative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u388	All right, let's go to the debat for a while, and first of all, Mrs Parviainen, Ulla.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u389	Mr President! Nature sports and the importance of our hiking grounds have already been discussed several times here, and I bring the joy that it has now been added to Metsähallitus to repair these routes and structures. There will certainly be repair needs and quality upgrades as the number of visitors increases. Today it was a pleasure to read in your local newspaper that the number of visits to the Syöte National Park is increasing, which means that the number of visits was recorded last year, and this has now increased by a quarter. Hossa National Park was an excellent example that this kind of status-lifting enhances and brings more visitors and brings feeling. Metsähallitus has made a report on the acquisition of Oulanka-Paanajärvi National Park as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and I understand that the Ministry of the Environment is preparing such projects. It would be nice if the Minister could describe in a few words what is going on with this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u390	Mr President! In some speech, wood construction was put at the heart of the debate, and that is one way in which coal remains. So I ask the Minister whether my knowledge is correct: When a wooden house is built today, the frame is practically unburnable, it cannot be ignited or burned at all, that is, it is completely as durable as metal, and yet the wooden houses demand — I do not know where the requirements come from — a so-called sprinkler system that automatically extinguishs with water if a fire breaks out there, but in concrete houses it is not required. If human accidents occur, they happen because of the burning of furniture — I do not know how much it affects the burning of furniture, whether it is wood or metal or where it is. Can these fire orders be changed? Then if the minister asked Metsähallitus when bridges are being built there too and they can be made from wood, which is the percentage with which Metsähallitus makes new bridges from wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u391	Madam President! In this situation, I would like to ask about this situation in home schools and home-schools. I understand that the Minister has spoken very much about such a Healthy Spaces 2028 programme, and I would now like to ask where the money from this draft budget is intended for municipalities to build these healthy buildings, for example, for day-care children and schoolchildren. High-quality early childhood education or high-quality education is very difficult to organise in a condition that is a danger to the health of the child or to the workers who work there. I understand that there were 700,000 administrative costs here in the draft budget, but where is the amount allocated to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u392	First of all, Mr Reijonen, who has not yet spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u393	Thank you, Mr President. For this wood construction, as much as the representative Eestilä pointed out that the Ministry has now been working a bit, that up to a certain height of the floor can have some wood in sight on the walls and ceiling. That is good, of course, but the sprinkler system still has to be, and the fire authorities demand it. I would like to emphasise that the ministry should now take bold steps. With $1.6 million, as I recall, for the promotion of wood construction, what is it actually spent on? Now we should be with the Ministry to find these risk solutions that would actually move forward in such a way that the tree would also be visible on the walls and not be lined by Gyproc. There are major challenges here, but I believe that the Ministry will address this. Isn't that right, Minister Tiilikainen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u394	Mr President! As much as I would like us to have sufficient forest yields for everything we want, and for the growing goals set by the government, I have been forced to listen to climate scientists who really tell us that today this carbon sink is dwindling and cannot be replaced by anything else, but that the climate is warming up and that we are not achieving these objectives. Metso and nature conservation programmes are extremely important for the protection of biodiversity and also for these carbon sinks, but we also need good management of economic forests. There must be such principles, such advice as to know and understand how best to achieve the best results through the management of forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u395	Let us take five more speakers: Mr Kosonen, Mr Hassi, Mr Halmenpää, Mr Modig and Mr Kiuru. — Mr Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u396	Madam President! The Government has invested heavily in increasing wood construction by dismantling standards, among other things, and has also succeeded in doing so. Wood buildings act as carbon storage facilities and, fortunately, the increase in their construction in this Chamber is supported from side to side. It is only not possible to obtain the timber required for wooden buildings unless forests are managed and reduced, and it is wise to use the fibre wood produced in thinnings for other renewable products, such as plastic products, and other side streams, for example, to replace fossil energy. We want to move from fossil time to renewable time in this Chamber, that is clear, and in some way we also need to increase the use of wood, but carbon sinks are also important. This is quite an equation to solve. I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen further how we can increase these carbon sinks in Finland. They certainly exist, and we can take this knowledge of our forest management to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u397	Mr President! I'll continue with this carbon sink conversation. On the other side of the hall, many seem to be actively confusing — intentionally or unintentionally — how carbon sinks have developed so far and how they will develop in the future if forest fellings are grown as planned. In Mr Tiilikainen's reply, it was clear between the lines that the Minister understands that the reduction in sinks is as bad for the atmosphere as the increase in emissions and that the sink will decrease in the coming years if fellings are grown as planned by the government. The fact that the sink sometimes grows at the end of the century is a mild comfort when total climate change emissions, net emissions, should be brought down very quickly. For example, Professor van Ypersele, former vice-chairman of the Climate Panel, said that by 2050 burning wood into energy will produce up to 2–3 times the climate burden compared to fossils.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u398	I'll add a few more people to the list, because we'll get there before the next minister gets here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u399	Madam Speaker! When it comes to carbon sinks, it is good to remember that forests are not the only carbon sink in Finland. In fact, even more significant are the Finnish bogs. They are also a significant carbon stock. That is why it is good that in this budget book EUR 2 million has been set aside for the restoration of bogs or wetlands. It is an important action, although the sum is rather symbolic. But I will come back to that Metso money for a comparison that next year, according to the budget book, we will spend EUR 16.3 million — that is, roughly the same amount as is available for the Metso protection programme — to clean up the environmental damage of the bankrupt Canadian company's Hitura mine. And this is certainly not the first time in Finland's history and, unfortunately, perhaps not the last, when one way or another these mess falls on the hands of the state. I would like to ask the Minister: would it not be time for serious consideration to be given to legislative changes in order to make it an obligation for mines to maintain some sort of liability fund so that there would be wealth there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u400	Let's just stay a minute, and we'll all have time to talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u401	Madam President! As a general development during this parliamentary term, the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment has decreased, environmental management and control has been weakened, and as the Ely Centres abolished the right to appeal, the role of non-governmental organisations and civil society in controlling the overall environmental interest will increase significantly. This will be particularly the case if the regional reform envisaged by the government is carried out in the way the government wants it to, when the living will cease to exist and we will have a new Creative Agency. At the same time as the role of civil society and organisations in supervision is growing, the money of these organisations has been cut throughout this parliamentary term. I consider this to be a very bad equation. But in connection with this Creative: After all, the legislation is not yet fully complete and the list of shortcomings is long, but one big concern is that this law does not impose any responsibility on anyone for monitoring the general environmental interest. I would have asked the minister: How do you see this situation, could it be added? Would it not be appropriate for this issue to be addressed during parliamentary work? Would the Minister see that as possible? Your answer is ‘yes’, right?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u402	Madam President! For this correction debt of Metsähallitus: It's a step in the right direction. Once the number of visitors has risen, of course, the hectares and structures and routes are worth holding on to. Every time this Metsähallitus money comes up, I bring up deserts. As a small relief, it must be said that the deserted are otherwise made of wood; wood construction is also favoured — fortunately, no one has made any other choice. The desert house network in Finland is very unique in international terms. It's a great system we have, and it's worth sticking to. On the basis of this, the Committee on Finance decided, last autumn, to add an additional EUR 100000, in earmarked form, to those who were being deserted. I hope that, now that this repair debt is being put on routes and structures, it will also be remembered that the maintenance of abandoned housing is being maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u403	Let us take the firm speeches again, Mrs Torniainen, Mrs Maijala and Mr Honkonen, and then the Minister's answer for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u404	Madam President! A great deal has been said about the promotion of wood construction in this Chamber and I warmly support it. But it must also take into account the fact that there must also be more education, and I hope that this is an over-administrative matter. And there is also the fact that it is not only wood that can be built, but it also needs to be combined with different materials. But there is definitely more wood construction and training there. Then I would like to raise the point that this is the fact that, in order to increase the production of state-subsidised rental housing for land use, transport and housing in the Helsinki region, start-up grants are being presented to the MAL Conventions. I personally hope that it will actually be extended to include the business sector as well, i.e. that there will be future MAEL agreements and that these MAEL agreements will also be extended to other parts of Finland, particularly to such medium-sized cities, where they will also be needed. And then when we talk
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u405	Mr President! We eat every single day. That is why it is important that we eat responsiblely produced, environmentally friendly food, that is, domestic food. Last summer Finland’s food production was saved by peat fields — peat fields, most of which are otherwise on year-round grass and are therefore carbon-binding. And now I would like to ask the Minister: when will the research data come to light that will tell us this, because there seems to be an extraordinary misinformation about this in public? Secondly, I would like to ask about these areas of conservation. The municipality of Posio has proposed the establishment of Korouoma as a national park. The area is known above all for ice climbing sites and activities, and just as it has been pointed out in the past, as a national park, this area would produce much better for the state than as a lower-level protected area. So I ask the Minister: when can we get a national park out of Korouoma?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u406	And Mr Honkonen, who has now had the emphasis on these members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u407	Thank you, Madam President. One more of these carbon sink/carbon storage issues. I would like to emphasise once again that the Finnish Government is not in a position to increase the felling of forests, but to increase them because the Finnish forestry industry wants to buy more and more products in the world. And now that clearly on the left you want to limit forest fellings, I would also like you to tell me what the mechanisms are, which limits forest fellings in Finland. And I hope that you will also be aware that, if this is done in Finland, these fellings on virtually the whole earth will not be reduced, they may be moved somewhere on the other side of the globe. The atmosphere is one — there is no separate atmosphere in Finland or Europe, but there is one atmosphere on earth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u408	And then the minister will answer, no more than two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u409	Mr President! Representatives Reijonen, Eestilä, Torniainen spoke of wood construction. Indeed, we need more training, we still need that critical evaluation of the regulations, and it is good that we now have this money for the promotion of wood construction for several years. Because hopefully there will also be results. Healthy spaces 2028: It is important that not only farms are conditioned but also the health of people with indoor air problems as quickly as possible, and this treatment is improved. Indeed, it has never been the intention to open up a relief clause to municipalities, because if municipalities wait for grants, the facilities will not be repaired. This is where speed comes in. Espoo alone has about one billion jobs waiting for the next ten years. It's a symbol of that huge amount. It is a question of investment by municipalities and the healthy use of their facilities. Creative, bringing legislation and public interest: Every Creative Worker considers that public interest in his own work. Surveillance's not gonna stop. In Elyi, people who currently exercise control are transferred to the Creative Service, when laws have been adopted in due course. On forest management: That is a very important thing to be able to reduce this repair debt. In fact, here Mr Taimela asked where he was going to stay with the future government. — Better than we received, because no cuts have been made to the funding of Metsähallitus' nature services, instead, increases have been made almost every year, and hopefully results will be achieved. The reform of the Land Use and Construction Act is progressing. It is intended to move on to the so-called future, the digital age, to do careful preparatory work. As far as the climate is concerned, it is true that all these speeches, which have been used here, give rise to the concern that we need to do more, that we need to do more faster. This is a much wider question than this one, which is where people are clinging to here in Finland, this throat thing. I repeat: we need more forests worldwide, better growing forests. In Finland, we can start
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u410	Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen. We're moving on to another theme. We have Minister Berner here and he has an introduction, five minutes, please. After that, it's the debut again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u411	Madam President! The Government proposes a total budget of approximately EUR 2.9 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The draft budget follows the guidelines of the Government Programme and the decision on the spring spending limits. The majority of the administrative budget, or approximately EUR 1.6 billion, is spent on maintaining and developing the transport network, including a good one billion on basic access to roads, railways and waterways, where the transport network is maintained in the condition required for daily traffic. A €49 million transport package to improve road safety and winter maintenance was agreed in the budget debate. Of this package, EUR 25 million will be allocated to the winter maintenance of roads and the repairs caused by the snowmobile. The security of level crossings will continue to be improved by funding of EUR 10 million. The Government has also agreed to an increase of EUR 4 million in private road grants, which will increase the total grant allocation to EUR 17 million next year. In addition, the transport package allocates appropriations for road safety work and the construction of game skills. The transport package will be financed from the 2019 budget and from the second amending budget of the current year. Nearly EUR 100 million will be spent on the write-off of the repair debt in 2019. The improvement of transport routes is carried out in several locations around Finland. Business transport and commuting will benefit from these repairs and road safety will be improved. Finland’s accessibility and functioning international and secure connections are improving. The corrections support competitiveness and economic growth. In 2019, approximately EUR 300 million will be spent on the development of the fairway network. The main focus will be on the continuation of ongoing projects in line with previous decisions. In addition, the appropriations for the administrative sector help to implement large municipal rail transport projects such as the Tampere tram and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area Rail-Joker. Mr President! The Government proposes an appropriation of approximately EUR 92 million for transport and communications services. Public services ensure the functioning and safety of the transport system and create conditions for the development of the transport system and related services. Communication services and networks are used to a significant extent in the production and consumption of social services. Digitalisation will create new transport and communications services for which fast and reliable communications networks are a prerequisite. In the 2019 budget, the Government proposes approximately EUR 208 million to support transport and purchase services. EUR 89 million is proposed for the purchase and development of public transport services. In order to promote the objectives of the energy and climate strategy, the change in people's mobility habits will be supported by an increase of EUR 2 million in rail transport. In order to promote the objectives of the strategy, the State will also assist the development of public transport in urban areas to promote digitalisation and transport services by EUR 3.5 million. The Government proposes a transfer of approximately EUR 519 million to the State Television and Radio Fund to cover the public service costs of YLE. Improving communications links between sparsely populated areas and rural areas The Broadband for All project will continue with the transfer of appropriations from previous years. Mr President! During this parliamentary term, we have developed transport and reformed legislation comprehensively. Long-term planning of the transport system is sought through a 12-year national transport system plan. Ensuring the competitiveness of rail transport is important in order to provide alternatives to mobility. High-speed rail connections have the potential to work in a wider area. With regard to the railway network, planning is already underway on the Turku track, further planning is needed in the corridors of the main line and the eastern line in order to provide long-term paths for the development of the lines. Although the specific funding now decided on for road safety and winter maintenance is welcome, the funding of corridors should aim at tens of years of time. Efforts must be made to reform transport funding in a bold and comprehensive way. The path to budget funding has been completed for major development projects. If we want to remain in the international race, we must be able to build new ways of thinking and operating models to finance transport infrastructure. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u412	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask those who wish to ask supplementary questions and participate in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u413	Mr President! The debate is likely to take place somewhere in the context of infra-financing. Of course, it is important, it needs to be invested in, and I hope that there will still be some funding for it this season, so that we can achieve the objective that everyone here wants. I will support you in your search for this. But even more important for the future is the fact that our legislation is feasible and that we are pioneers in transport policy as a whole in Europe and in the world. Is our transport policy sufficiently forward-looking to be able to influence these challenges of the future and the opportunities of digitalism?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u414	Madam President! The parliamentary group unanimously proposed that the additional funding for reducing the road and rail repair debt should be continued, and I must say that the confusion was great when nothing — round zero euro — was allocated for this purpose. I have to ask the minister why I did this. It now appears that the permanent increase in the level of funding needed to discharge the correction debt will remain on the hands of the next government. The second point is that Sweden has a long-term transport policy of at least 12 years and has received 17 times the funding compared to Finland. How can we increase Finland's share of these EU funds? It is not, however, a question of not having such projects all over the province — the number of roads is large.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u415	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä has already raised this issue, which concerns me too, namely the condition and repair of the fairway network, which amounts to about EUR 2.5 billion. Indeed, the parliamentary working group on the financing of the transport network concluded that 300 million should be added on an annual basis to the level of approximately 1 billion at present. Now, in the Government's draft budget, this money to reduce the debt has been completely lost. Now I have to ask the Minister: what will happen to the debt of repair? What does it look like now and in the future when there is no money?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u416	Madam President! As we heard, in this government's proposal for the coming year there will be money earmarked for transport. Over the past three years, this government has done a very good core network repair and basic maintenance, and new projects have also been launched. I would like to ask the Minister: at what point is this report on the core network, and will it then become a guide to this 12-year transport plan, which the parliamentary working group has also proposed? Then I would like to ask the Minister for his views on this financial issue in a little more detail. I would particularly like to hear the views of the various parties here today whether they are prepared to move on to this new financial system, because we all recognise the fact that the current budget-based funding will not be able to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u417	Madam President! Like Mrs Pakkanen, I myself am a member of this Transport Network Group, in which we are therefore working on the best time — even tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. — to begin this 12-year plan. We are also considering financial issues, although it is not the actual mandate of that group. Mr Pakkanen is well aware of that, but we agree that we need a long-term plan, even if we are stronger in applying for those TEN-T funding for Europe. But I have to say that, unfortunately, during this government, parliamentary cooperation and agreement have been underestimated, and a good example of this is that more than EUR 300 million will be less available in the coming year for basic infrastructure management, for repair, even though we in Parliament agreed on it. This is not, of course, a very fruitful basis for parliamentary cooperation, and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u418	Let us stay within minutes and as many people as possible will be able to speak today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u420	Madam President! First of all, I could point out that funding for basic transport infrastructure management is now falling by almost EUR 400 million and is now at a slightly higher level than in 2015. What worries me is how this infrastructure can now be maintained at this level of funding, with so much repair debt. The second is the functioning of public transport in sparsely populated areas, i.e. purchasing and developing, and I would have liked to have had more investment in it, so that public transport can also be used to provide services, work, school. Then there are functional telecommunications connections, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas, that is, if we want to keep Finland competitive and the whole of Finland inhabited, as the Finns would like, we would need functional telecommunications connections. Then I would like to ask the Minister: have you already received a joint statement from five provinces to get Kasittie on the main road network, which would be very important for the export industry and for the vitality and competitiveness of Finland as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u421	Värderade fru talman! Jag vill också inledningsvis passa på att tacka ministern som systematiskt talar för innovating communicationstjänster för digitalisering, delningsekonomi, uttnyjande av data och som också befrämjar nordisk samverkan i olika former.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u422	Mr President! During this period, the increase in the transport corridor repair debt has been halted and even reduced. In this respect, I should like to thank the government. But in next year's budget, there will be no more additional funding, and the amount of the debt will threaten to rise again. In line with the parliamentary agreement, efforts must be made to remove the road infrastructure repair debt over the long term, Minister? Then this highway 8. That is the production line of our export industry on the west coast, with its impact on the Finnish economy rising to tens of billions of euros a year. I ask the Minister whether the whole of Kasittie should not be part of the road trunk network and the highest service level, so that it meets the current and future needs of the industry and can also serve as the main route for special transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u423	Madam President! In the presentation of the Minister, I thought it was a good idea for these road safety projects and work. They're very important. But of course all regions have needs for railway projects, and so have the Uusimaa Union of Finland assessed future scenarios: There is a great deal of investment in rail projects. There is a need for a double track on the beach, an extension of Espoo's urban track to improve commuting and daily school traffic. There is also a need for a relatively cheap project on the tracks east of Porvoo and also for the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track, taking into account the importance of exporting the port of Hanko and the fact that heavy traffic is now fluttering through the city. I would also like to ask about the promotion of biogas cars, since the tax on motor vehicles is not going to be such as to make biogas cars pay, even though the conversion of a car into a gas car is a climate action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u424	Madam President! Our transport network has indeed earned its long-term 12-year plan. This squirming transport policy, at least, had to go away with this transport plan, but what happened? As has already been pointed out in this Chamber, additional funding for the reduction of the road and rail repair debt agreed jointly by Parliament will be exhausted from the budget. So there will be zero euros now reserved until 2019. This has been praised — at least yesterday — by several speakers for the fact that the government is now reducing the car tax by EUR 50 million. That figure means that the car owner saves on average about EUR 10 per year — that is, EUR 10 per year. I dare to say from the feedback we, as Members of Parliament, receive that this same sum would certainly have comforted those motorists much more as an assorted asphalt surface, especially since this additional funding, which has been agreed jointly by Parliament, is completely exhausted from this budget. Was this the right choice of values at this point?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u425	Mr President! Lapland’s tourism is one of the leading factors in Finland’s development, just as a locomotive in the situation. But, as we know, one of the most important things about tourism is how well connected they are. Here, above all, all air connections — for example, there is always too little air traffic at Ivalo — are important, and secondly, all this road traffic, everything works how it works. How do we get connections to play whether direct air connections from abroad can be made to work directly to Rovaniemi, for example? The second thing that has to do with this is how much new research data will be used to study and maintain the condition of the road, because in Finland we have world-class ground radar data on the road base. How is this being used so that we can develop these things further?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u426	Mr President! Last winter the clinking was worse than in more than 20 years, and this was seen in people’s everyday lives as bumpy roads and the collapse of the road edges and weight restrictions placed on different sections of the road. These all increase the cost of professional transport when alternative routes or less cargo are needed. And then this will be an additional cost for us consumers to pay for products and services. That is why I cannot quite understand how it can be that here on page 557 of the budget book, which contains this table of basic infrastructure management, the sum of road maintenance has fallen by 200 million and also to track maintenance by 200 million. So, if you think that the road and rail network is the Finnish vascular system, how can this be possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u427	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that by you, this matter of the shift of the watch-gear has moved forward, by the will of Parliament. That's good. I'm not going to take a stand on whether it should be summer or normal, but I'm sure there'll be a wise solution. Mr President! In fact, some 8 billion taxes and various charges are levied on transport per year, and according to this draft budget, the Ministry's section is just over 2.8 billion, and 1.6 billion of these costs are spent on the transport network, including the Agency's administrative expenditure. This is something people do not understand: 6.3 billion transport taxes and charges are used for all other expenditure in the budget. Well, of course it's all right and it's been for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u428	Mr President! There was talk of parliamentaryism here, and, at least in my opinion, during this period of government, parliamentaryism has been well followed on top of the last one, particularly in the field of transport, under the leadership of Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u429	Madam President! During this term of government, a lot of reforms have been made in the field of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which are aimed at the long future, and this period of government has specifically focused on basic infrastructure management and renovation. Efforts have been made to reduce the repair debt of 2.5 billion, and it has also been successful. Then, of course, the concern is that the next couple of years will now be quieter in this sector, but there will be funding there for basic bus maintenance. You have to take that into account, it's not a zero, even though there's a so-called here. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] I would also like to thank you for the fact that next year's budget now includes a transport safety package that invests in winter maintenance and the continuation of the level crossing programme, as well as this increase in private state aid of EUR 4 million. It also comes in real need.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u430	Mr President! The aid for the purchase of electric cars and the conversion aid for gas and ethanol cars will remain at the current EUR 6 million next year, but this has not been bit very well. The number and sales figures of electric cars have not started to rise significantly. One of the reasons is that the charging point network for electric cars and then the gas network, in particular the biogas refuelling station, are lagging far behind the desired development. Next year there will be no purchase aid for electric bicycles and no scrapping premium. Mr President! I too, as an active user of the beach track, need that necessary funding for a double track, which would certainly remove the obstructions and speed up and increase the train connections between the north and the south significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u431	Let us take two more replies, followed by the Minister's reply: Mr Blomqvist and Mr Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u432	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! Jag skulle ha två frågor till Minister Berner. Den ena gäller hur det arv programmet, eller arbetet med att öka säkerheten i plankorsningarna på sjävägen framskrider. Och den andra frågan gäller det rai stamnätet och vilka vägar som ska höra eller inte höra dit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u433	Mr President! I realized it was promised there before. [The President : Yes! ] In other words, in order to combat climate change, the development of rail transport is extremely important, and these investments should therefore be seen as an investment rather than a one-off expenditure. The draft railway body network has been published, and the Karelian railway is not presented as part of the passenger network between Lappeenranta and Joensuu, and this makes it very difficult to develop that Karelian track and the eastern direction precisely as fast connections. If we do not get there within 100 miles per hour, it will be difficult to understand how the railways could really compete with air transport, for example, and this will require repair.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u434	And then, Minister Berner, from that spot for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u435	Madam President! There is indeed a common concern here that we all will be able to keep the repair debt from our network of waterways in a better condition. During this term of government, we have invested EUR 600 plus EUR 364 million to bring our debt of correction to a close and to some extent to the future. I would like to thank all the parties in this House for the good cooperation — I think good cooperation — that has taken place in the parliamentary working group and for the commitment made by the parties with regard to the EUR 300 million increase, and I hope that this will also be maintained in the forthcoming government negotiations. The 12-year transport system plan will help to ensure that Finland, as in Sweden, moves towards a better starting point as well, with more predictability, but also better to catch up with other sources of funding for our transport investments. I agree that the transport infrastructure and its significant investments must be seen as investments, and so we also need financing solutions that are of an investment nature. On the other hand, I think it is important that the correction debt is specifically financed from basic infrastructure management. There is talk here that the level of the correction debt is about to fall by 400 million, but this is not entirely the case, but we are now returning to the level that has been long before this government term, and now there is a need to take new decisions in the next government negotiations. As far as the network is concerned, I can hear your feedback and I am happy to take into account all the points of view that you bring out. We now have a consultation until the end of this month, after which we will hold one more hearing, and then hopefully we will have the final framework on which, as Mr Pakkanen said, the proposal will be submitted, and then it will also serve as some sort of reference framework as part of this next 12-year plan. Electronic transport and the related supply subsidies, the purchase of biogas cars and the associated tax systems — this is a point where we clearly have something to improve, and in this context we have a round table for electronic transport which will meet again this week. We need to see and assess whether we may have to make changes within these agreed frameworks so that we can genuinely get more biogas cars and also get an electric car on the way. With regard to level crossings, we will be adding 10 million next year to the level crossing programme, and hopefully it will make a significant contribution to 21 level crossings, either completely eliminating them or significantly improving safety. We also want to ensure that Finland genuinely has the capacity to develop fast connections to the east, to the west and to the north, and here we want to ensure that genuine financial means are also found for these, that the main track, the Turku hour train and the eastern track move forward, which will also have a positive impact on Karelia's track and Savo's track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u436	All right, then let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u437	Madam President! Of course, the coastal line to the east is also an option that we have also talked about with the Minister. In growth engines, transport routes are the biggest single factor, along with knowledge and education and housing and so on, and that is why the 12-year plan is of course very well-founded, and that is why the Swedish model of the neighbouring country is being achieved. Another thing I hope will help is that we will have TEN funding to be applied for through the European Union when we have long-term planning. It will also, of course, improve the location of industrial jobs in the region if they have a little bit more information as to where these routes are being built. And in this respect, I would like to thank you for continuing to halve the fairway charges, because that is absolutely essential for our exports. I would have liked them to be completely removed, and in connection with this, I would like our largest Finnish port, the port of Kotka, to have access to rails so that it can serve even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u438	Mr President! As has been quite clear in this debate, the condition of the network and, on the other hand, the increase in the debt to repair are of concern to a large part of Parliament. At the beginning of the electoral period, this situation was slightly improved, but now the situation is getting worse. On the other hand, the high taxation of motor vehicles and other mobility contributes to the deterioration of economic growth. I hope that Minister Berner will give his greetings to the Minister for Finance, Orpo, in all of this, bearing in mind that only some of the tax revenue collected will be used to renovate the transport network. Mr President! The development of the transport network and the conditions for affordable mobility are above all an industrial policy measure and investment. A well-functioning transport network pays itself back in the form of increasing income tax and corporate tax revenue and has a positive impact on economic growth and also enables the cost-effective transport of export products to the world market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u439	Madam President! The renewal of the car fleet is very important, especially if we are trying to achieve these ambitious climate objectives. One good thing has been this so-called scrapping premium. This year it was spent EUR 8 million, and previous experiences have, in my opinion, been in the direction that the amount invested has come back to the state even double, for example, in the form of tax revenue — you can, of course, correct me if I am wrong. I was just wondering if it would not have made sense to continue paying for the premium carrot in order to make the car fleet regenerate at a slightly faster pace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u440	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister. Yes, the ministry has at the moment had a lot to do, and I must say that it is also a pleasure to note that the minister sees the development of Finland as a whole and that these projects are everywhere in Finland and not least in the Oulu region. Here, the opposition has tried to forget the billion that has now been spent in this three-year period to close the debt. It's been forgotten here, and now it's like we're moving out of nowhere. Remember that there was a revolutionary change in transport policy during this government compared to the one before, the one that took place. Thank you, Mr Berner, for that, which has broken through good projects with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u445	And now we are going to take these people who have not spoken yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u446	Madam President! Indeed, when we look at this parliamentary term, we have now achieved a revolutionary change. In the context of the parliamentary transport network working group of the last period, it must have been a little tense — which the current President, by the way, led at the time — to see whether these proposals would move forward. It was no surprise to us, but perhaps it was a surprise to some people in the opposition that this removal of the EUR 2.5 billion correction debt had begun. Now that we think that this EUR 1 billion is moving forward, it will also be reflected to a very large extent next year. It is then up to the new government to apply for funding for that next period, and hopefully the 12-year transport system plan will come to fruition. At least in the Committee on Budgets, which is the Committee on Budgets, and in its Section on Transport, we will also outline this issue in such a way that the next government will have the best possible opportunities and starting points, so that we will also be able to move forward in transport policy in the future. Financing of EUR 60 billion
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u447	Madam President! The Jyväskylä region is one of the strong growth centres in the country, measured by all indicators. Check for yourself if you don't believe me. It is therefore necessary to highlight the need to design the Jyväskylä-Tampere track connection. This track is an integral part of the so-called Finland track and the strategic whole of the main track. It is Finland's strongest rail transport route,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u449	Madam President! Thank you for taking the floor. I have just begun that there is no money for new projects. This has been a subject which we have repeatedly mentioned here in the opposition. The money that has been put into basic infrastructure management — good in itself that the basic routes have been repaired — has been taken from those development projects. At the same time, development debt has been created. This is an unfortunate fact which the Minister too must recognise. It has been pointed out that next year there will also be money for basic bus maintenance. Yes, 90 million — but that 90 million will be taken from those development projects next year. So it does seem to me at some point to continue the cover of fools. [Markku Ross’ interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u450	There are now 17 requests for the floor. If everyone stays in one minute, I'll scurry them. Then there is the Minister's reply, and we will have a rough debate at the end. And here we go: Congressman Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u451	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for this very active and persistent work, it is said, on the reform of our transport and then on the telecommunications front. Many very positive things have come out of this budget, just as private road funding, level crossings, winter maintenance, and especially broadband, and I also hope that additional money will be made available for these broadband issues in the future. But the most important thing about this is how we finance the main track. We have about five million passenger travel performances per year from Helsinki to Tampere, and when freight traffic is added to it, it would be good to get this third track between Helsinki and Tampere even more quickly, so that we can get from Tampere, for example: To Jyväskylä, the second track forwards. I can also see that these Third and Ninetie, which are very crowded when people from Tampere want to go north, then open up to traffic and get these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u452	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u453	Mr President! This was an infra-relationship, as I knew it would be. It is better to confirm the message, that is, that this government has made an unprecedented effort to maintain the basic route. It is true that it has been taken from those projects, but it is a prioritization, a necessity. What we are now returning to is the level of previous governments, that is to say, there is something to be corrected, and I am encouraging that more funding be found for this year, and the next government will do its job. The frame network and the planned implementation: It has been here for a long time and vt 8 mentioned — great thing, I am not the only one to mention it. But here's where the plan of hope is. I am told that the intersection of the Eura River is now planned as two lanes and is part of this backbone network. Should we really plan for the long future, go to four lanes in the trunk networks that really are, and not waste money on pointless plans?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u454	Mr President! This whole budget package of the LVM should also be seen in this whole Government term, which means, for example, that this EUR 1 billion correction debt programme is quite historic and, according to the path outlined by Minister Berner, it is also appropriate to move forward in the coming parliamentary term. But, Minister, one minor question: There are quite large business projects going on in various parts of the country at the moment, including mining investments, which require, among other things, road investment as a matter of urgency. In what way, Minister, is it now possible for the government to react to these situations, including in terms of funding, in order to make progress on these mining projects?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u455	Madam President! Efforts to improve the mobility of people and business are of paramount importance. I have to say, some of them have been successful in lobbying. Those investments in Oulu are envious. There is the Hailuoto bridge, highway 4 repair money at the end of Oulu, the deepening of the port of Oulu — a total of 181 million euros will be invested. [Markku Ross’ interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u456	Madam President! It is important that this debate remains on its own. That is why it is good to have this debate on rail transport and the core network plan. I would also like the renovation to take account of the existing rail network in the coming years in order to ensure, for example, the competitiveness of the port of Kotka. That is why I think it is important that in the coming years we should also pay attention to the maintenance of the existing network. Then, in time, these eastern rail projects — when we get good plans from them, then they will go ahead, but now they will be repairs to this existing network. I would like to sharpen the debate in such a way that I would like to hear some of the views of all the parties on this 12-year plan and then on the other hand on the financing of large investments, because that is what we have to agree on in Parliament. I would hope that the parties will have their views on this at some point, which will finance these major investments in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u457	Congressman Taimela, and Karimäki is preparing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u458	Madam President! I would also like to thank you for taking account of the winter maintenance of the roads in this yellow book, but at the same time I would also like to remind colleagues that, last winter, even a quiet moment had to be arranged by professional drivers in relation to the poor level of winter maintenance. In other words, there is a huge amount of work to be done by future governments to ensure that we succeed in some way with this winter maintenance. But then a word on the details, because no one has mentioned them today in this debate. I know that the Minister has received mail from the private information working group of the Advisory Council on Island Affairs, in which they are concerned that large increases in rent are threatening to double the cost of chartering the ferry, thereby jeopardising the operating conditions of the ferry. With regard to the financing of private roads, they hope to be able to make such structurally sustainable solutions. I hope so, although I'm sure the minister will be a little busy answering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u459	Representative Karimäki, Kankaanniemi is preparing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u460	Madam President! I was a member of the debt repair team myself last season. It is important and valuable for the government to implement the proposal for a debt correction from the working party of the last period, but this debt cancellation is a project for many, many years, and it is regrettable that it has now been broken at this stage. I would also like to ask about telecommunications links. There is now a budget of EUR zero for the implementation of the national broadband project, and I am a little surprised because this is about the vitality and livelihoods and entrepreneurship of the countryside. Secondly, I would like to ask about the promotion of 5G technology. This is something that has also been decided by the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers together to promote: Nordic as a pioneer in 5G technology. Can you tell me, Minister, about how the government invests in 5G technology?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u461	Mr President! The largest coniferous pulp mill in Äänekoski produces 1.3 million tonnes of pulp every year. It needs transportation from Äänekoski to Vuosaari by rail.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u464	Mr President! Here representatives from Rantakangas and Eestilä praised the three years spent on transport. However, I think it should be borne in mind that, as early as this year, we already have some 340 km of paved roads in the Ely Centre of North Savo, which includes three provinces — Etelä-Savo, North Savo, North Karelia — but despite this, the proportion of roads in poor condition has increased by between 100 and 200 kilometres this year. So even with this year's money, we in Eastern Finland have not been able to pave as many of the bad roads as would have been necessary. In other words, I think that the way things have turned out is that the government's poor people have been falling for two years now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u465	Madam President! Much has been done, but much remains to be done, as we have heard in this Chamber. Functioning transport connections are probably one of the top priorities in the business world, whether it be air transport, rail transport or the traffic on rubber wheels, we all know that. It is wonderful that more money has now been made available for winter maintenance, which is the care of the celery. However, I would just like to stress that it is not necessarily just money that solves. We must also ensure that that winter maintenance is carried out correctly. I don't think that's the first thing. I don't think that's the first thing about sharing money. But then we have discussed whether it is the Turku track, the Tampere track or the eastern track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u466	Mr President! I am in line with Mr Reijone that these big projects, the rapid transport projects, which have been on the agenda a great deal, must be targeted fairly and equitably. In just the same way, if one of us has four children, we all have to be given the same kind of life. The state has four children: Northern Finland, Western Finland, Southern Finland and Eastern Finland, and none of them is an unwanted child who gets along with little. If we look at how these state investment funds have gone this millennium, then there is a very clear truth that Eastern Finland has fallen short, there are one per cent provinces there. And now that we start talking about these high-speed transport connections, it is quite clear that Eastern Finland must now at last be placed on priority list number one. However, each of us has his own favorite projects, but we must see that now that motorways have been built, fast rail connections, we cannot just repeat them, so that each time money is put in the same place, they must be put in a fair place. That is what we will then come to the Transport Section of the Committee on Finance to think about and make our own report on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u467	Madam President! Transport and transport projects must be discussing all of us, everyone has opinions about them, and the needs in different parts of Finland are really great. But the key question is how we can ensure that there is sufficient funding for the fairway in the future and how it will be managed. The fact is that normal budget funding will not be enough to mobilise major transport projects in the future. In fact, I would divide transport projects into three parts: There are small projects, about a few million projects. Then there are the medium-sized projects, some 10 to 15 million, which are at risk of being forgotten in this debate too. And then there are the really big projects, the hundreds of millions of projects, which have now been mentioned in this debate - the main course has been the east track, and I personally hope that it will also be taken forward. It should take into account that in the Karelian track
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u468	Mr President! It is great that in this parliamentary term it has been possible to invest less than EUR 1 billion in filling the road repair debt. Of course it is, Mr Taavitsainen, that it is not enough for all the projects on the fairway, that is quite clear. There are still challenges. For example, in the area of the Ely Centre of Uusimaa, which includes Hämek altogether, there are currently only three projects in the area of light transport. One is in Veikkola in Kirkkonummi, one in Porvoo and one in Sipoo — only three projects. We really must think about this financial system and also about the distribution of money. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be possible, in this case of the distribution of money, to change the criteria so that they would be changed to take account of the extent to which they are consumed, that is, the number and size of the road used? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u469	Madam President! A few brief questions. When this digitality is a topic that it is good to talk about, what about this accessibility, and how would those networks actually work all over Finland? Now we know that the cables have not been drawn there and the 4Gs are not working. The second question is: when we talk about electric cars and, on the other hand, about bio-powered equipment, whether they are gas or blending, and when there is a strong EU approach to the electric sector, how does this equation work here in Finland? And third and biggest: here we have talked about these financial systems. There has been a system in the neighbouring country of Sweden, which we have also considered or at some point suggested with municipal funding. So how could the provinces and municipalities be involved in those companies? At the moment, municipalities are paying direct money to get someone to join a road or a piece of a track. But municipalities and provinces in the future, if they exist, could be part of that company
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u470	Then four more and then a minister: representatives of Rantakangas, Rossi, Hänninen and Hautala. — Representative Rantakangas, ragged speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u471	Mr President! I would like to highlight one aspect which has not yet been raised in this debate. It is the people along the sorates. Big projects have been mentioned here, as well as projects in the Oulu region. The Hailuoto Bridge project was 40 years in progress, ten parliamentary term, four parliamentary term — it was about time that this was done, and when there was a proper minister, it was done. But the people along the oppressors pay taxes in the same way as those in the suburbs. It also produces a lot of raw materials. There's tree streams, there's milk, there's meat, there's everything else. Yes, we parliamentarians are very much contacted on the road, and yes, they are the poor gravel roads that are the cause of this contact. That is where Mr Reijonen said quite rightly that control should be paid attention to the fact that in those contracts, when you run in bloody competition and then put the subcontractor on the next round, many times it will then be very poor levels of care, and it should also be done by the Ministry and the Ministry. The Finnish Transport Agency pays attention
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u472	Mr President! I don't even like a term like a lower-grade road network. That is something that is despicable of the net through which wood, milk, strawberries, agricultural products, raw materials move and so on, so that the industry also spins. At present, the lower road network — the village roads and the roads between villages — is the most vulnerable in oxygen overall, and it also needs to be invested in — in the same way as cross-border traffic, because, for example, the ports on the west coast are very fast-moving and when cross-border traffic feeds into it, it works well for the whole nation. But, Mr President, to this end, while we are still talking about money: the Transport Network Group was unable to reach agreement. I would ask Minister Berner to open up a little of this balance sheet issue, which would enable us to obtain additional funding. It's not about selling roads to private people, it's about making them produce.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u473	Mr President! Important, good speeches have been made in the Chamber, and I have to say from the funding that road users are charged more than EUR 8 billion a year for tax-like money, and only about EUR 0.8 billion will be returned to that transport sector. So only a very small part of it will then become available to us for the development of these transversal routes or ports or rail transport, which is perhaps another reason why this transport network of ours is falling apart. There would probably be funds that could then be directed more to the transport sector. Mr President! I'd like to bring up the Kasitien one more time. Getting eight roads into the road network and the highest service level is a matter of life and death for the Finnish export industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u474	Madam President! Mr Kankaanniemi raised the issue of timber management here, and it is in them that rail transport is important. As a result, in Western Finland, for example, there is a need for the renovation of the so-called low-traffic railways. In this, the Suupohja railway is one very important route in the future. Many representatives have spoken about these winter contracts, and I agree that they must pay attention to both offers of works and, in particular, quality control, and impose sanctions so large that the work is done. We have a number of very important road projects in Ostrobothnia, which must be kept on the agenda in the future: it is important to streamline the Seinäjoki-Lapua road, then there are those who have already started, the road from Kauhajoki to Isojoki — there the money ran out — and the double track question of the Seinäjoki-Tampere railway is also very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u475	Then, Minister Berner from the scene, is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u476	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you for this debate. In the previous speech, I answered the questions and considerations related to the backbone network and basic infrastructure management and repair debt. In future, we will have to look more at development projects as investments whose impact assessments go beyond just the benefit-cost perspective. We need to assess the impact of these infrastructure projects on the rise in the value of the land, on the real estate economy, but above all on the ability of working areas to become more competitive and on the impact they have on our environment, climate and security. This will also enable us to find ways of finding common solutions between municipalities, regions and employment pension companies, for example. How, then, are these projects selected? This is a key tool for the 12-year transport system plan, and in it we have come to a very good agreement that it will be done by means of parliamentary means. This is anchored in the law, and it is also through it that there is a strong commitment to respect for parliamentaryism. This 12-year transport system plan must also be based on how it will be financed in the future and ensure that it is then on a sustainable basis for the future. One key part of our fairway infrastructure and our transport networks is accessibility, one part of which is also in our digital infrastructure. There is no new money in broadband money at the moment, but there is still transitional money for the previous period, and therefore the application process will continue in this respect. As far as 5G frequencies are concerned, we are the first in the Nordic countries to auction 5G frequencies, and that is now happening in this October to November period, so that 5G frequencies are already in commercial use at the beginning of next year. This is where we are the first of the Nordic countries. At the same time, a strategy for digital infrastructure will be completed during the autumn to ensure that we also have a long-term perspective on how to achieve adequate levels of investment in cooperation with the private sector, i.e. the telecommunications sector. Winter maintenance and icebreakers taught us a lot last winter, especially the challenges and damage they caused and the poor condition of the roads. This is something that we have now wanted to pay particular attention to, and I would also like to remind you that for the first time we have a monitoring mechanism in the road code, which is the new legislation that has already been adopted by Parliament and is already in force. This new legislation will now be tested for the first time in the coming winter. At the same time, the forms of work will also be reformed. Part of winter maintenance will be targeted specifically at gravel, and from that point of view we hope to improve the lower road network during the coming winter. Thank you again for the debate and also for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u477	All right, this section has been dealt with in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u478	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Government trusts in equal and high-quality education and high-level competence-based growth as Finland's success strategy. Finland is now in a very different situation than at the beginning of the government term: employment is increasing, public finances have been brought into a much better situation after difficult years. As a result of employment growth, the improvement of the economic situation has made it possible to make targeted research and training efforts. The first significant effects of the turnaround were seen in this year's budget, and next year's draft budget will continue along the same lines, reforming the Finnish education system from early childhood education to continuous learning. Finland is now living at its peak in the economic cycle. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture, this is reflected in particular in the need to ensure the availability of skilled labour. The government has already made a number of additional efforts, both in vocational education and in higher education, to ensure that there is sufficient education provision and that it meets the demand for labour markets. At the same time as we respond to the training needs created by the high economic climate, we must take care of the conditions for future growth. Research, development and innovation activities, which have been allocated significant additional permanent funding in the draft budget for 2019, play a key role in this. Mr President! In the budget debate, the Government decided to increase a total of EUR 112 million in research and innovation activities in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The funding of scientific research will be increased by increasing the concession of the Academy of Finland by EUR 25 million. At the same time, this permanent increase will lead us towards our goal of a very ambitious increase in R & D funding. In order to cope with global competition, the level of funding should be raised to 4% of GDP by 2030. This new increase was allocated to support the careers of young researchers in particular. The careers of young researchers have already been supported by EUR 60 million in key project funding during this government term, and this good work can now be continued and consolidated. EUR 25 million will also be proposed for the next year for the implementation of the science flagships research centres. The flagship programme strengthens the Finnish scientific excellence and supports, together with innovation networks, the impact of research on society and the growth of the economy. Research, development and innovation activities in universities of applied sciences will also be continued. It will be supported in 2019, i.e. next year by EUR 5 million. Universities and universities of applied sciences will also benefit from the significant increase of Business Finland's concession by EUR 69 million. Similarly, VTT funding will increase by EUR 7 million and the central government funding for research in university hospitals was increased by EUR 6 million in the budget debate. I would like to say a few words about my favorite subject, early childhood education. During this term of government, it has taken significant steps forward and early childhood education as part of the educational path has been strengthened. A new budget of EUR 10 million is proposed to support equality in early childhood education. Money can be used to reduce group sizes and recruit additional staff in day-care centres operating in challenging areas in order to strengthen equal early childhood education. The experiment on free early childhood education aimed at raising the participation rate in early childhood education will continue and can be expanded. An appropriation of EUR 5 million is proposed for this purpose. In this year's budget, the government doubled the previous funding for primary school equality, which also supports schools in challenging areas. For this purpose, EUR 30 million is also proposed for next year. The Government has made a historic decision regarding the development of language teaching. Next year’s first-graders are the first age group, which in its entirety will start studying the first foreign language at the latest in the spring of the first year of comprehensive school. An appropriation will be allocated to early-warning measures already for the year 19. An appropriation of EUR 10 million is reserved for the implementation of reform of upper secondary schools and matriculation examination. Upper secondary school will receive the additional funding needed for this purpose. There is a particular need for this now that the high school and the matriculation examination are being renewed. Increasing the supply of vocational education and training will continue to meet skills needs and reduce youth unemployment. An amount of EUR 9.4 million is proposed for this purpose and support for the implementation of the vocational education and training reform will be continued and EUR 15 million allocated for this purpose. Mr President! Next year's budget will include new targeted investments in research and training. They promote equality in education and support Finland's renewal. All of this is now possible because the direction of Finland's economy has been reversed and Finland has been restored to growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u479	I'm opening a debate. Those who wish to speak will stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u480	Mr President! The big picture is probably like the last government had to save, we had to make bad savings decisions, but now in the last couple of years we have been able to drive the training machines up again. That is, of course, a very positive thing. Perhaps a comparison of whether it will now replace a previous operation is pointless, because that is not the case, of course. We are here and now, in a situation where we have the opportunity to invest again, and that is a good thing. After all, there are now significant investments here, including this spending of over 100 million on science, mentioned by the Minister, in terms of its size. I also welcome these measures to promote equality, which we have here, with an investment of EUR 10 million in early childhood education. And then the historic decision was made to bring 30,000 secondary students into the study material supplement. It is a really big step towards a truly free second degree. It's a very important decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u481	Madam President! I also welcome the fact that we are finally getting to the point where we can allocate these appropriations, because it is important to allocate funds because it will make money effective. We really do have a huge shortage of labour. We need more know-how. Companies are calling out for a new workforce. We were just with Mr Torst, and there were others there, in the financial debate, and it really did appear that, among other things, generic skills are the skills that work life is looking forward to. Finland will only succeed by further raising the level of competence, and if we do not find and receive these new talent, it will be our biggest internal threat. It is a great thing that these funds can now be increased, and if I could decide for myself, I would like to put just over the necessary money into education, research, strengthening knowledge. That time will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u482	Madam President! When you look at the big picture, it is unfortunately familiar again in this budget. Once again, one billion people will be cut from education. The money is big, where you move, even though all the experts have said all the time that saving from education is disastrous. Despite educational promises, the government has made massive cuts. That is exactly what is happening here, Mr President, which has been mentioned here before, that first you take a bucket and then you give some money with a small spoon, and the balance is very negative. I myself am very sad about this development of equality in schools, the development of equality in comprehensive school. It must therefore be noted that, for example, these equality funds — good that a little improvement has been made compared to last year — represent half of what was invested in the previous period. And it is precisely this money that is the money that would give children equal, good, high-quality education in the various areas of the local schools, and that is why I would like to make these massive cuts in education extremely concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u483	Mr President! This is an investment of primary importance for Finland’s future, namely education. Of course, it is also a huge issue and a wide-ranging topic for economic and employment policy that is at stake not only to foster civilisation in all of this. Especially now that economic growth has finally begun, after drastic cuts, we must return to a policy of education that will give future generations real prospects for the future. Mr President! Although unemployment has decreased, more than 200,000 Finns still lack work. And despite this high unemployment, the government has repeatedly expressed its concern about the labour shortage threatening Finland. It is now up to the government to respond with a sensible education policy to this challenge and to offer Finnish young people a real opportunity to enter employment through education and training, and at the same time to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u484	President! As we all know, the education sector has undergone terrible cuts during two governments, and it is a good thing that there is light now at the end of the tunnel and that we can really look to the future after heavy, difficult years. I personally and the people's movement I represent wish that the next election would be an educational election.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u489	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here, on the one hand, from the point of view of what is important when funding is allocated and its effects, which are obvious, and, on the other hand, from the need for basic funding. If, for example, we look at basic education and now here at this equality money, which I believe is linked to positive discrimination, that is already a research activity that produces good results, and that is absolutely something to be supported. But at the moment the problem remains if we consider the cuts made in state subsidies, that we still have the huge imbalance and that basic funding is not sufficient. Last week, OAJ commented on the matter, and their views, the picture of what is currently happening in basic education, for example, in various schools throughout Finland, was extremely harsh. They specifically painted the picture that, regionally, children and young people are in unequal positions. And it will then be reflected both in the possibilities of learning, in the content, and also in such concrete questions about peace and opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u490	Mr President! It is gratifying to hear that the government also believes in high-skilled growth, but we do not have to wait for the next elections until this is reflected in concrete action. If there is now more room for manoeuvre than there was at the beginning of the government term, why is it not used, for example, to remove the index freezing of higher education institutions, what has been desired from the university field throughout this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u493	Värderade Talman! Budgetproposition innehåller goda satsningar, men också besvikelser. Till de största besvikelserna hör utblivna satsningar på grundfinansieringen av all utbildning. Långsiktighet och helhetsyn har saknats under den oxi perioden, vilket gör att också periodens siista budgetproposition är en besvikelse till vivi delar. Below nivåer — alla nivåer — av vår utbildning är trötta på project och projectfinansiering. Satsningar på grundfinansieringen behövs nu.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u494	Madam President! In the budget, polytechnics receive the same amount as last time, EUR 5 million. Thank you for that. However, since the amount is not very large, it is important to establish fair criteria for the distribution and direction of that funding. If that sum is distributed to all universities of applied sciences at the same level, there is not much left of it per university of applied sciences. So I think we should look at the quality and extent of research, for example, and I think there are other solutions. So I would like to ask the Minister: in what way, on what basis, have you thought about laying down criteria for the distribution of this 5 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u495	Mr President! Representative to Nylander for this project money: It is true that everyone wishes that basic funding should be at a better level, but how can it be guaranteed if it is in the general state that it is also passed on to education in the municipalities and does not flow elsewhere? This is the problem with our current VOS system, and that is why we have had to make this project money. But I ask the Minister, when I know that there are new opportunities being considered there: how can we allocate that money and ensure that it goes to education and training?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u496	Mr President! The savings in vocational education and training have put many educational institutions on the brink of chaos. I'm sure the Minister has received the same kind of messages as I have. Both students, teachers and parents of young people openly say that the students have now been left to their own happiness and no one has time to get involved in the affairs of the students. The government and the minister were warned in advance that this would happen if these savings were made before this reform. A small increase in vocational education and training will not remove the plight and chaos of educational institutions. In public, the Minister has said that he regrets this situation, but I do not think that this feeling of regret is enough to listen to messages from educational institutions. That is why I ask: what does the Minister really intend to do now to remedy the situation, other than to be sorry?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u497	Mr President! This budget book cannot have any other objective than to improve the current situation, to strengthen the quality of education and to strengthen equality, as is stated here. We have concerns about, for example, comprehensive school. We all know the Pisa results, as well as the shortcomings in reading and writing skills in a certain proportion of pupils since primary school. The foundation of the education system should be put in place, so attention should be paid to the early years of learning there. All children must be given the same starting point in their own studies that they should be able to continue their studies. We have presented a school for young children, which would focus on pre-school education and during grades 1 and 2. I understand that there is no legal obstacle to this, but it is essentially a culture of action. I'll ask the minister if you can find it here. The new comprehensive school programme now has elements that could strengthen precisely that point in pre-school education and point one-two in order to really strengthen
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u498	Mr President! Perhaps a little outside the budget proposal: The Government has removed legal barriers to education exports this season and opened up opportunities to export Finnish expertise to the world. In 2017, this was worth about 300 million, and apparently now in 18 much more. I would like to ask the Minister how this has now started and whether it is now full potential for education exports, because this is a great added value for Finland, because our teaching around the world is highly appreciated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u499	Mr President! I'd like to go back to this big picture review. Indeed, in 2015 we held educational elections and made a promise of education, and quite a few took it seriously. Unfortunately, however, this budget is not exactly the same as this big picture in this respect. We went through these figures and we still have a total cut of more than one billion in state funding and municipal funding, i.e. public funding. If we then consider this plus 169 million, then we will still remain at about 900 million, including these indices. 900 million. Therefore, as a comment to the Minister, I would like to ask about two points. There is a RD effort: there will be a change of direction, I agree with that argument. There may then be a mixed view of their targeting. On the other hand, I find it very problematic to raise 10 million in early childhood education to the debate. We have cut the subjective right to early childhood education and increased group sizes, and now we say,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u500	Mr President! Personally, I agree with the Minister that the greatest measure of equality is to improve early childhood education and to involve as many young children as possible. That is my view, and I still think that language skills should also be increasingly taught to children, and I mean English, because the ability of a child to learn is considerably greater than perhaps the general understanding here. That's my idea of it. I have an angry teacher Taina Räikkönen from Savon Sanomat last Sunday, and she says that young people are becoming marginalised because there is no time for them in vocational schools, the paper mountain increases, time goes to everything but teaching and 56 per cent of the money goes to school. I’m used to the fact that employees know what’s going on in my life, and I think it’s worth taking this kind of magazine stuff seriously, because it’s not always about money, it’s about what the teacher has to do during the day. I understand that vocational education is coming back, but still.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u501	Madam President! Mr Kivelä hoped that the next elections would be an educational election. Blue memory's breaking up. By name, Mr Kivelä, you were at the OAJ panel at Messukeskus in 2015 to make a training promise. But you betrayed it. It became an educational fraud. You cut off your education, even though you promised me the exact opposite. Your memory is also broken when you argued that there were no intermediate issues regarding education during the last period. Yes, we did. In good cooperation with the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, the current chairman, Mr Tuomo Puumala, we raised the issue of education and the increase in inequality after the Stubbi government halved the index. They're all frozen now, aren't they? I'm waiting for the middle of downtown to ask about it. Madam President! When he listened to Minister Grahn-Laasonen’s speech, he began to suspect that he was visiting the Pilvenmäki racetrack this weekend, namely the racers and betting players often tell the profits but forget to mention how many losses there were. You listed a few tens of millions that have now been added, but you forgot to tell us the hundreds and hundreds of millions that were cut before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u502	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u504	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u505	Mr President! This has not been about what is pleasant and what is not. Last season, the training was cut off and taken away all the slacks. There's nothing left to do. All the parties said that we should stop cutting, otherwise we should go down a dangerous road. There was no need to operate this season. As evidence of this, many opposition parties, including the Greens, have made alternative budgets. Since 2015, our own alternative budget has been balanced. We would not have taken out any more loans than the government, but we would not have cut out of education. Among other things, we would have reduced subsidies of billions that are harmful to the environment and invested that money in training. Now that almost EUR 900 million has been cut, as has already been said, it is indeed the case that these small repayments of tens of millions of euros will not make up for the deficit. This is still the wrong direction and is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u506	Madam President! Representative Eestilä raised an important issue, the level of vocational training. We are really worried about a situation where companies are in a very large shortage of skilled labour. Particular attention should be paid to what is happening in vocational education and training there. Then I would like to raise one point which I have discussed with the Minister before. We know that much is said in this Chamber about the quality of construction. With regard to master building training, this work started from 2005 to 2006, when there was unanimity in this Chamber. But there are too few places to start today and the Minister has not agreed to increase the number. There's been talk of a lot of interruptions. A system should be put in place to ensure that one year of compulsory training before learning begins. A person would see if he was fit for this business. Here's a big job, a big column to do. Will the Minister promise that this will be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u507	Mr President! There must now be a distinction in vocational education and training, which is the result of these cuts, because at least 15 years have been cut locally. It is not this government, which alone has done this. Then there's another thing. What's the reform? The reform is good in such a way that it takes the student's competence needs into account individually. So now that we go through the student's skills, that is to say, what he already knows doesn't have to be there for that long, three years. Or if someone needs support, they can be there longer and a little more intense. In other words, this will reduce the number of suspensions on the professional side and improve the working life orientation that has been done here. So it is an excellent reform, but there are still a lot of problems in implementing it, and that is why more money is being invested in implementing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u508	Mr President! It is probably just as Mr Vahasalo says, but in this reform, even more responsibility is being transferred to companies, that is to say, schools are transferring responsibility to companies, and there is no resource in all companies, because it should always be at the side of a professional's advice on what is actually being done. It binds resources to the company. The aim is probably good, but the real grip has been slightly lost in vocational education, at least in certain sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u509	Mr President! I will continue this debate initiated by Mr Reijose by saying that, when we were really discussing the needs of the future of working life today, this reform of vocational education and training has created such a paradox that we are training tomorrow's workers in today's workplaces. I therefore hope that the government will very soon consider when we will carry out an impact assessment of how successful this reform was and whether it will actually produce the skills that we are calling for in this society. At the same time, I would like to ask how the government has assessed the main recommendation of the Economic Policy Review Council on education policy, which was given to you in January, which was to make secondary education compulsory. I would see that this is where it would be able to develop this whole secondary education, vocational training as a whole, and give the organisers of education and training the opportunity to assess precisely that these different skills are met and that young people acquire the knowledge and skills that this modern world requires in order to gain access to employment. This was therefore the most important recommendation in education and training policy and I cannot find it in this budget book.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u510	Madam President! For a few weeks, we parliamentarians have had the opportunity to enter day-care centres, and I can tell you that at least in the Raahe region this early childhood education law has been gladly received. However, it is not yet considered perfect, but it is hoped, for example, that a supplement will be added to the definition of how long, for example, a child in shift work can be treated at a time. Then there is also an interest in knowing how the model of three - step support is now progressing in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u511	I now give a reply to Minister Grahn-Laasonen, two minutes from the seat, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u512	Mr President! I'm starting with the equality of early childhood education because it came up. During this term of government, more and more children have been admitted to early childhood education, which means that the participation rate of early childhood education has increased, which is an important act of equality. It has been made possible, among other things, through rebates and now as a novelty through this free early childhood education experiment for five-year-olds. This is the path we continue to take and continue to promote early childhood education. The new early childhood education law is a significant improvement, giving priority to the best interests of the child. It is a fine reform and has also received considerable support from Parliament. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats did not support it, which is still difficult to understand. Another aspect is that the number of young people not in education and employment has fallen by practically thousands during this term of government. It also tells of this big picture, where we are, that things in Finland are better than before. We have also seen a fall in youth unemployment. And in the same way, during this reign, the biggest story is of course... The tough economic situation has certainly left its mark, but, at the same time, major educational reforms have been carried out during this reign, which were actually expected for ten years, perhaps twenty years. Comprehensive vocational education and training, which is only now starting to start and its impact can be assessed, but which, in the broad view of the field, still responds better to future skills needs and takes Finnish professional competence forward. It is also a model for the development of vocational education and training in Europe at present and also at global level. Similarly, the new law on upper secondary school was adopted in Parliament. It takes upper secondary school education to a new age and strengthens Finnish general education. Substantial teacher training development projects. New tutor model. It's a mobile school. Literacy projects. Early learning of languages, which was expected for decades, and indeed the vision of higher education and research in 2030 has agreed with universities on a path to increase the level of knowledge and education in Finland. The question of project funding was asked. On this point, I would just like to say briefly that we are currently preparing to bring it together as united as possible, that it is not made up of small searches that burden and create bureaucracy in the everyday life of schools. So there's gonna be a better one. I could then try to answer the following questions, if the President so permits, in the next speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u513	Then the Minister will be the last to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u514	Mr President! I find it extraordinary that the government does not even want to show so much humility in public that it could be quite fair to say that this period has been cut off from education with a big hand. All the experts I have heard in the Committee on Budgets, for example, have seen such major cuts in education as a radical mistake that should never be made. And then you cut the future so bad you'll rot. President! I also wanted to say here that it is rather unpleasant for the minister from that cabinet to state our position on behalf of the Social Democrats, namely that the minister certainly knows very well that we here have strongly opposed the fact that you, the Minister, have increased the size of the groups in day care and have intervened in subjective day care. This has been the government's line. Fortunately, some municipalities have chosen differently. For example, Tampere, where I come from, has made the choice of values that we do not grow group sizes in day-care centres and primary schools, and that is a wise choice despite the fact that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u515	Mr President! Certain dark clouds we have around the field of education, it must be said out loud. If those problems were so easy that money would just solve them, it would be really easy. I fear that is not the case. What do I mean? It is that when I go around schools — and many of you go around schools — there has been a lot of change in the elementary school. There is much more anxiety, much more lack of concentration, and when you come to second degree vocational school and upper secondary school, a surprisingly large proportion of people face challenges even with basic skills, such as reading understanding. I think this is the biggest picture since we've been a model country that goes around the world to admire. Against this background, we have developed this idea of giving strong support to the young children at the beginning. In addition, for example in vocational education and training, resources are also important, that is true. Long - term surgery is on pain limits and in many places over it. In addition to this, there is a great deal of support for reform, and in it the attention will be paid to the ministry, very much support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u516	Mr President! Secondary education is a very important step in both working life and possible subsequent studies. Unfortunately, many vocational institutions, in particular, are currently operating with very limited resources, which means that local education leading to the profession has had to be replaced by independent studies. However, many occupations require practical skills that are impossible to acquire through distance learning, and without adequate contact teaching, the risk of dropping out and exclusion is obvious, especially for students with learning difficulties. True Finns want to ensure that high-quality vocational education and training also helps these young Finns to participate quickly in working life, and it is therefore important that vocational education and training be invested in the future. Mr President! The position of the nearby upper secondary schools must also be safeguarded. The new upper secondary school law was adopted in Parliament last spring,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u517	President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, spoke very constructively. We face a wide range of issues and challenges that require a new, open-minded attitude and a review of the course. In the implementation of vocational education and training, there are issues with which the reform either stands or falls. It is extremely necessary that the quality and quantity of local education be guaranteed at an adequate level and that this problem of matching should be eliminated. For example, the metal industry is a sector where there is a shortage of labour. It is able to offer a competitive wage, and it is a clean, skill-intensive job, but it is not going to get students there. I have said, playfully but seriously, that a change of attitude could be made by the fact that if mothers were to be made
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u518	Mr President! It is gratifying that the government parties have now awakened to this situation in vocational education and training. The speeches that have been made here today are quite similar to those made by the opposition throughout this parliamentary term and particularly in connection with this reform of vocational education and training. If we are concerned about the quality of vocational education and the level of local education, we can of course ask whether it will help to cut by EUR 200 million in vocational education and training. Of course not. It is obvious that it has made the situation worse rather than changing anything for the better. I would also like to say to Mr Eestilä that, if the government's aim is to ensure the quality of early childhood education and the increase in participation rates, why on earth have you still not withdrawn this very unfair and failed decision that directly limited the right of some children to participate in full-time early childhood education? This is a completely inconsistent speech on early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u519	Mr President! When you try to be upbuilding and bring up the problems that arise in that field, some blame you for being inappropriate. But I'm sure this is how it can be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u520	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u521	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u522	Madam President! I too have visited day care centres and read newspapers and, as a teacher, I also get quite a lot of direct contact from teaching professionals. Now, first of all, this aspect of early childhood education. After all, this new law on early childhood education is excellent and good in many ways, but the situation is not so great that it or these symbolic contributions to early childhood education make up for what has been cut out of early childhood education. I'm sure they're on their way. There are part-time, half-time, full-time and shift care children who are in shock, but there are no more resources. It has resulted in the loss of children, and it is also the loss of carers. They would like to do a very important and valuable job with a high level of professionalism, and this has been made quite difficult, if not impossible. As far as vocational education and training is concerned, there has been a reduction in the number of places of education and a change in the content and quality of education so that not all young people can manage there. It's just that they're very self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u523	Mr President! It is good to continue with that problem of meeting Mr Kivelä. After all, the providers of education and training make every effort to meet the skills needs of companies, but there appear to be a number of problems. Example from Oulu: There is a shortage of combined vehicle drivers in some areas in the north. The organiser of the training had 15 starting places and only 12 applicants, of whom only three were finally able to attend those studies. This in a city where youth unemployment is high, and in an area where, at the age of elementary school, this big car driver's job is such an attractive task and is dreamt of by boys and now also some of the girls. The ability to continue learning after comprehensive school is very inadequate for a certain part of our young people, and we should find solutions for this more strongly than we have at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u524	Mr President! After all, the objectives of the reform of vocational education and training are good — and I am sure many people agree with this — but the savings in education and training prevent these objectives from being achieved. The aim is for the teacher to have a personal time, and for students who need support and help to get the support they need, but the situation is quite different. As an example, what does the Minister say to this teacher, who told me that she currently has 60 students — because she is not allowed to substitute for sick leave, she has had to take 60 students for herself? He does not know these students, and he should direct the students to the right path. He had gone to tell the supervisor that he could not handle his own work, when the supervisor had found that he could not do anything about it, and told the teacher not to think too deeply about student situations. This is the way of life in vocational education and training at the moment, and this is indeed due to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u525	President! Indeed, the many problems of vocational education and training, in some places even chaotic situations, should not be blindfolded. But at the same time, I would like to emphasise that there are questions for which money is not the best medicine but a new way of thinking. For example, on this issue, now that more learning is taking place in the workplace: That job counselor has to be the best guy at the workplace, and often the best guy is needed elsewhere. But let's just say that a guy in his 60s who is no longer a very efficient worker — perhaps the employer wants to put it down gradually through the pension pipeline — could teach, could be just the local director, the intermediary of silent information. I can see that a 30-year-old doesn't necessarily want to teach when he feels that it can become a rival to him. That in every way now new thinking in the ring,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u526	Madam President! Mr Andersson did not criticise Mr Eestilä, but rather praised the fact that it is good that we have now woken up to what the problems are on the professional side. Unfortunately, when the EUR 200 million cut was made in connection with this reform, it was not yet understood, but the question is whether that mistake should not now be corrected. Madam President! I have been getting acquainted with early childhood education in the East and the West on both the Finnish and Swedish-speaking side and, of course, almost daily in the yard of the day care centre. And yes, the messages that come from there tell us that it is extraordinary that the regulation first increases group sizes and now gives a small separate allocation so that the decision is replaced, or that the subjective right to day care is limited so that the groups get confused, and now there is concern about this. Madam President! And on top of that: The holiday money for both nannies and kindergarten teachers was cut. That, if anything, is there for day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u527	Mr President! It wasn't the government's fault to cut the holiday money in any way. Yeah, it was the parties that did it to each other. In relation to this debate, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture will probably amount to almost 6.5 billion in the next year, which is a significant figure, namely, according to the OECD, Finland spends the second largest amount of public money on education in relation to GDP, which, in my opinion, is a very good achievement. Norway is the only country that uses more of us than the industrialised countries. On the other hand, Finland spends the least, about one per cent of all countries, and I would now ask the Minister why, and perhaps, through this, would it be possible to add money to education in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u528	Madam President! We must acknowledge the Minister at this point, perhaps from the point of view that your actions have shown in many ways such a desire to reform and move things forward, perhaps to create new structures, or to raise thematically different billboards, which is extremely important. But as is the case in this debate, the challenge is always funding. For example, when it comes to vocational education and training, we have a good objective, but it is being done around too few resources, which also creates huge risks from this point of view, for example, of education in the near future. At the same time, I would have liked to ask again about the training of teachers and their contributions. The topic of harassment was raised during the last Question Time and the Minister raised the issue of investments in further training. Would it still be possible to specify, or is it already known, which part of this continuing training money might be targeted specifically at gender equality and this problem of harassment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u529	Madam President! Yes, one of the obvious reasons for the problems of vocational education and training is that students are already very well equipped when they start. Some of the students are doing very well and perform their duties and studies easily and are able to do group work and individual work, and so on. Then there is the other group who would need much more help and support and guidance. They have learning difficulties, such as social problems or mental disorders, which today are many. So, of course, we should focus and look much more closely at this group and offer them assistance and support in a multiprofessional way. Otherwise, these young people will be at risk of exclusion and there will be more suspensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u530	Mr President! In short, three things. Firstly, the first speech by Mrs Wallinheimo, which was very valuable in relation to our international activities. We have had the Dare to Learn event in Helsinki for a couple of days, and I would like to see OKM take a much stronger global influence perspective on this kind of thing more widely. It is not just about exports, it is about global effectiveness in the education sector, which we can do much more than that. But that requires that we have our own nest in order, so to speak, and that is what we need to invest in at the moment. This issue of early childhood education has to be said when the Minister asked it that we in the Socialist Group really weighed its own position very carefully in the spring. Our view was that Finland really needs a reform of early childhood education that really increases equality, i.e. guarantees subjective full-time early childhood education for all children, guarantees the three-step support mentioned here and, above all, guarantees the well-being of skilled trained staff and staff. Now we have a situation just the opposite. We hear of staff shortages all the time and have not seen any path towards this highly advertised vision of the future of the new law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u531	Mr President! The entire education system is an integral part of continuous learning from early childhood education to early childhood education. We must ensure that every level of education can do so as well as possible in its own role and field. The fact that people go to second grade and cannot read or count or write nothing is then the place where you have to look after basic education and, for example, introduce the old flexible basic education, Jopo. Let's do more individuality in that basic education. Let's not give him any grace jokes. Let's take care of that field. It also helps the second degree. And from early childhood education it all goes, as Mrs Paloniemi quite well, very well knows. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u532	Mr Viitanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u533	Mr President! I myself have also visited the day-care centres quite a lot, I was there in the direction of Tampere. They are, in themselves, delightful visits, because you can see how much you know and do with your children with your heart. Oh, they're lovely little milkshakes. But yes, the message is exactly the same as it was said here: the staff there are going to be really hard and the groups are bigger than they should be, and it is a hard weekday, which is what the personnel in the day-care centres are currently doing. That is why, Mr President, I would like to say once again that I think it was wrong, for example, to cut the holiday money for these kindergarten teachers, teachers and public workers in general. And as for the kiky agreement that it wasn't the government's fault, I'm very much reminiscent of the government's pressure on these laws of its own.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u534	And now for the reply, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u535	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. However, first of all, I would like to address the social democrats. The fact that you voted against the Act on Early Childhood Education has puzzled a great deal of researchers and experts in early childhood education, because in practice it meant that you said ‘no’to the law which raises the level of training of staff to the level of training that,in 2030,two thirds of the early education staff would have been highly trained. There are millions of people in this government, I can say that more than EUR 20 million have been added to the education of teachers in early childhood education in universities. This will give us new professionals, but you will understand very well that when this has not been done in time — for example, during the last period when you were responsible for these matters — it will of course take some years to train the professionals. That in just one night, this doesn't happen. But the direction is now right and good, and the new early childhood education law strengthens the child’s interests. Similarly, another point I would like to remind you — and I hope for the last time — is that when you talk about vocational training and the cuts to it, apart from the fact that you have been carrying them out in the previous period, not only yourself, but also your chairman, Antti Rinne, since the beginning of this government in June 2015, after the promise of education, has also said to Parliament, as recorded in the Minutes, that the SDP would have cut even more than this government. [Department: Oh, oh! ] Now we have to look ahead and say that we have a new, reformed vocational education and training, the biggest education reform in two decades. We should not close our eyes to problems, and we certainly have them in a situation where such extensive, major reform is taking place in a difficult economic situation. But now we have to give all the support to the field and allocate resources there to implement this reform, and that is what the government will do next year's budget. The new vocational education reform will build more individual study paths, the personal support. My message to the field of vocational education and training is that when resources of EUR 1.8 billion are spent on vocational education and training in Finland, we must together ensure that when we are too young we must not leave it to ourselves to study too independently. In the field of vocational education and training, teacher training also plays a central role, and when questions were raised about this teacher training, I would say that during this term of government there have been tens of millions of euros in major projects and investments in teacher training, research-based projects which will continue to be good for many years. After all, Finnish teacher education is very high and well-known in the world, and that is also the expertise we have been able to bring to the world. This issue was last discussed at the Dare to Learn event yesterday. I was talking about project funding, but then this question of young researchers came up, and I would just like to say that the Academy of Finland is responsible as an autonomous operator for more targeted allocation of this resource so that it is used as effectively as possible, and that will be the way it will be. The focus has been placed on young people, those who are at the beginning of their careers, yet already sea-based researchers, so that it also enables Finland to be an attractive environment for young researchers, that it is attractive here to do research and renew the Finnish field of research.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u536	Now, at the Ministry of Education and Culture, we will move on to Minister Terho's responsibility. Minister Terho, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u537	Mr President! Straight to the point, to the budget. An amount of EUR 586 million is proposed for student support. The study grant is therefore proposed to include a material supplement that would be entitled to a student under 20 years of age entitled to a low-income increase in the student's study grant and a student under 17 years of age in a low-income family. The educational material supplement is EUR 46.80 per month. There has been a strong consensus here that it is in the interests of the nation that no one's talent should be wasted because of a lack of money and that the cost of secondary education should not become an obstacle for anyone to progress in their studies. In addition, the support period for upper secondary school education will be extended by one month, i.e. from nine to ten months. Thus, the long-term desire of upper secondary school students for ten months of student support will be realised, and the change will improve the financial conditions for upper secondary school students to study. €444 million is presented for culture and art, of which €246 million for gambling. A total increase of around EUR 8 million is proposed for the promotion of art from the profits of gambling. The additions are targeted, among other things, at the structural change in the so-called free field of performing art, international co-production of films, the strategic development of cultural activities in municipalities and the development of various fields of art. It is great that the additions are now focused on, among other things, support for the so-called free field of performing art and equal opportunities for children and young people to participate in art and culture and to extend the principle of percentages — both EUR 1 million. The Ministry will launch the implementation of the annual reform decided in the 2018 spring spending limits debate for the years 2020 to 2023 by reforming the funding of the free field of performing art already in 2019. The additional allocation, EUR 1 million, will be allocated to three-year operating grants. The availability of cultural services and materials will be improved through digitisation and the development of online services. A total of approximately EUR 700000 will be allocated to the National Audiovisual Institute and the Library of the Visually Impaired. Mr President! A total of EUR 158 million is presented for sports, of which EUR 155 million for gambling revenues. The mobile school programme will be extended to a mobile study programme covering secondary students, which will be funded in 2019 for a total of EUR 2.8 million. The Government’s leading project is the Mobility School Programme, implemented between 2015 and 2018, with the aim of bringing an hour of physical activity to the day of each comprehensive school student. The programme has been an excellent success and has reached around 90% coverage of municipalities, comprehensive schools and comprehensive schoolchildren. So the mobile school has been a success story that really needs a sequel now. In order to strengthen the conditions for top-level sport, the State is preparing to capitalise the Olympic Fund by transferring state-owned equity to it for a maximum of EUR 20 million. State capitalisation would be in line with private capital. The fund's revenue is used to support the athlete's path, such as developing the operating environment for daily training and improving the socio-economic status of athletes. The practical preparation of the Fund will begin with the Finnish Olympic Committee in a timely manner. The establishment of the Olympic Fund is an important step in supporting Finnish top sport. The Mobility Study Programme and the Olympic Fund to be set up under state ownership guidance will be key measures later in the autumn in the upcoming Sports Policy Report to the Parliament. EUR 76 million is proposed for youth work, of which EUR 55 million for the profits of gambling. The conditions for looking for youth work and the social strengthening of young people will be improved by increasing this appropriation by EUR 0.5 million. Youth work is involved in the development of multidisciplinary programme activities. The appropriations for youth work will also be allocated to the development of young people's entrepreneurial, economic and occupational skills. Well, I guess the time has just come. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u538	I'm opening a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u539	Madam President! Very positive things in your line of work, Minister. Of course, the best thing about them is this educational material supplement, which I was excited to praise even during my previous speech in the presence of the previous minister. I attach particular importance to the fact that it is not out of any other small advantage but that it genuinely helps those people who are on the lowest income. I'm glad we made this happen. There are also good and interesting new openings on the sports side. That's the Olympic Fund. It is true that this Mobility School project has been a success story. It's a good thing we've got a follow-up. Now, of course, the big expectations lie in this first report on sports policy. From that I would like to see a long-term approach to the field of physical activity, and I would also like us to have the courage to make a big effort to exercise. We have the cost of billions of immobility that we, as a society, are paying for as a sustainability deficit. If we had the courage to make an effort of EUR 100 million in size to mobilise people, in a cross-sectoral way,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u540	Madam President! Mr Puumala's thanks are easy to agree with. There are good things here. In the last parliamentary term, I am raising sportsmen's pensions, the Act on sportsmen's pensions, which was achieved, has also been allocated money. I know from my own experience, i.e. as a participant in the events, not as a pensioner, of course, that granting a pension to an athlete — I take an example of when the most successful Paralympic athlete Jouko Grip received an athlete’s pension — is a moving moment, and when remembering it may not come much after a career and your own pensions are weak, then the poor are. Last autumn, the Committee on Finance increased the money for top-level sport, and there was funding, for example, for the URA Foundation and the Sports Academys, and now, of course, it is important to consider whether further progress could be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u541	Mr President! Here I am focusing on the cultural side — good words about exercise came earlier. Minister Terho, first of all, thank you: it was good and important that you secured the position of Tampere Workers Theatre despite certain threats. Next, there is the concern that it would be extremely important for us to be able to complete this state aid reform for theatres, orchestras and museums. After all, it will only be partially carried out now. It is good that there will be additional funding, although it is inadequate. For example, the free field is very concerned, but the big concern is that it is estimated that between 20 and 40 million would be needed. It's always worth investing in culture. It will improve employment, hence vitality, people's well-being, and this reform should be exported and financed here and now. It'll pay for itself. Another concern, Minister: This is a matter of compensation that we have been considering in the past. It is unreasonable that it should now be cut by some EUR 2 million next year. This is different from what was said at the time. Parliament itself has required an impartial assessment and analysis, which we have not yet received.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u542	Madam President! The principle of percentages of art and culture is extremely good and important. It is used in construction projects on both the public and private side, so that a percentage is used to acquire public art. This has also been extended to the social and health sector, art- and cultural-based social work and the percentage principle applied to it. When this is the way it works and we want to promote it, the question is whether we should also have a percentage principle at state level. At the moment, the cultural budget is around 0.8% to 0.9%. I think we could all have such a joint project that this good percentage principle would also be at the level of the state budget: 1% of the state budget to culture. The number of artists has increased, and the income of artists is still weak, and more grants are needed. The problems of the VOS reform cannot be solved without additional funding. There was mention here of athletes' pensions, the same problems also exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u543	President! Certainly many new innovations are needed, but I won't get tired of boasting that the world is moving, how we have a great system in Finland, this system based on betting profit. Yes, it is such a wonderful system, and if it did not exist, Finnish cultural, scientific and sporting life would be quite different. Another fine institution, which should be mentioned here, is the Finnish Cultural Fund. There's a lot of other people out there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u544	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u545	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u546	Madam President! As several Members have already pointed out, I would also like to raise this reform of the VOS. And as has been said here, there are fine, as it were, targeted measures, perhaps even to some extent, on that side of the free field. But, of course, it would be interesting and important to hear what is going on with the whole, or, on the other hand, whether we have considered the impact of these measures on the wider picture. In the background is the work of the working group, where there were shortcomings and which also led to contradictions, but that work has been done. What, as it were, will make use of this from now on and how will that overall reform move forward, because there are still high expectations on the ground? Secondly, on what I would like to ask briefly: the Minister has taken up this issue of harassment very well. Perhaps I would ask a broad question: When money is distributed from the ministry, how much is the motivation or criterion for gender equality or diversity in society? How well do actors in different fields of art reflect the whole of that vast society, the different population groups? Has there been any discussion about this, could there be a stronger focus on this already in the funding allocation phase?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u547	Madam President! I couldn't agree more. From the expansion of the mobile school to the second stage as well. For students, that is an excellent idea. At the same time, however, I would also like to turn to that speech by Mr Arhinmäki. Firstly, I support the principle of percentages for the state budget for culture and art. We should courageously understand the welfare effects of culture and art that can be measured and demonstrated on a truly broad scale. Why not really invest more in children and young people than this beneficial effect of art and culture when we know and have just talked about just how many problems many children and young people have? Art education, art and culture will certainly be good for these children and young people as well. Let's be brave and invest in it. But here are some delightful things, and it is very important to take account of the free field. It renews all art and culture and art.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u548	Mr President! I agree with Mr Arhinmäki on this percentage art. Yes, it has brought much joy when you come across these works of art in public buildings and elsewhere. But the real question to Minister Terho: how do you see what has been behind us now, since this success of our European Championship in Berlin was not what it should have been? It is also a national identity issue. Somehow at least for myself, who I am not an expert in this area, it occurred to me that there must be something wrong with the background, if you compare it with Norway, where the athlete has, of course, strong support, financial support and other forms of support. If an athlete is going to get the best results — even a couple of top athletes among us — then there must be no trouble, no financial worries, and its support network must be behind the one that pushes forward, does not spin in the wrong places and others. Somehow it felt as you read those newspaper articles that if an athlete had had great difficulties in making a living, how to reconcile work and practice and so on, then there would be no top score. What have you yourself, Minister, thought about this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u549	Mr President! First, I would have intervened in this study material supplement. Of course, it is a valuable opportunity for students with limited resources, but I would see it as some kind of emergency aid or emergency aid. It is in that way very different from this kind of universal educational system which in this country has decades built. I therefore hope that this will be a step towards the free second stage and the extension of compulsory education which will then take place in the coming periods. There are two things I would have asked the Minister: We have received feedback on this Mobility Study project from some cities that have been concerned, however, about the situation in comprehensive school. So I would have asked again: is the mobile school programme now going on in primary school exactly the same, or is it going to be the responsibility of the municipalities? And secondly, the compensation payments, which now made this surprising, surprising cut of 2 million dollars. So it is a matter of small money on a national scale, but it is a matter of great importance here as a whole. Why this kind of surgery was actually done,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u550	Mr President! And for that success in sports. I think, however, that the biggest thing about it is that we can get the masses moving. If we compare Finland and Norway, we have a completely different culture. That is what we must try to do, to get young people on the path to mobility, and that is where this moving school issue is good. Then this matter of livelihood for athletes is different. A few times in the Committee on Culture and Education, the Committee on Finance, its section, has brought it to the end that we have increased the grants for sportsmen — in other words, young athletes, who are even at the poverty line, according to the study of Yle Sport — by EUR 500000. Now they were at the bottom — good work, Minister. Twice we added them here in Parliament, and now they are at the bottom of the ministry. But there is still a lack of the support of the URA Foundation, which is also very important to these young athletes, and likewise this support for the Academy system. That is something that we will have to take note of. As far as culture is concerned, have you done anything about this reform of the system of state aids now, or is it still where it was then?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u551	Mr President! I agree with Mr Puumala that a physical way of life is not what it used to be in Finland. A Finnish youth under 15 years of age moves almost least in the entire Western world. That is why this Moving School was once established. Perhaps my question now has to do with the fact that, now that this is left to the municipalities in a certain way from primary schools, is it now so solid that it will continue there, and how will this translation be made to the second stage, whether there are high schools and vocational training and so on? I would like to express my thanks to the Minister that the state is now preparing to capitalise on the Olympic Fund. This is a very important issue for Finnish top athletes. Top sports have long missed this, and thank you very much for that opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u552	Madam President! With regard to sports pension, I must say that President Kekkonen of the Republic had promised it in 75 C.E., before I was born, and I received a great deal of praise when I finally realised it 40 years later as Minister of Sport. Top sports play an important role in society. It's where you get your role models, it's where you get your inspirations. You can see that when Finnish success comes in a species like a species: children and young people are starting to move. For example, you rarely see a spear throwing on Herttoniemi beach, but, yes, right after the EM gold came, the next day the rocket spears flew. But despite everything, top-level sport is not the most important thing; it is how to make children and young people move, how to guarantee everyone the right and the opportunity to move. The mobile school, which has been developed, is a good project, but it is also important to ensure that the follow-up support is provided, that no one has an economic barrier.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u553	Mr President! Student support is a need-tested benefit, and it must be paid to all those who need it, but these, of course, always involve income limits, which are used to direct it to the most low-income students. Students have to work to live during studies, but another good reason to work is to get work experience during studies. Today we found out that you are now clearing out these income limits. I would like to thank the Minister for that. We look forward with interest to the change of year, when this study is coming. There will be a lot of feedback from representatives that these income limits are too low, that you should be able to do a little more work during your studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u554	Mr President! Maybe a few words for me about that gym. Of course, I can see that we have almost the same thinking with Mr Arhinmäki, namely that I would also like to emphasise the important point that all children should have the right and opportunity to engage without having to face financial difficulties in the family. Therefore, it is important to promote the possibility of engaging in a hobby in a holistic way. President! For my part, I also agree that, for their part, by allowing children to move, by enabling all their abilities to emerge, it also serves these opportunities for top sports quite strongly in the future. I agree with Mr Kivelä that this Paralympic success should be taken better into account. These features, which it has revealed, were not good, but, on the contrary, we must give them a great deal of attention, honor and all that their fine performances deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u555	President! When traveling with children and young people, these are questions that must also be seen in a cross - administrative way. This is one of those ticking time bombs from an immobil state. It will then be a non-existent state of mobility and will suddenly be in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Public Health as a cost of public health. For example, it is known through invitations that young people have a variety of problems that did not exist in the past decades. I also agree with Mr Arhinmäki and many others that all children and young people should be happy to play sports. We have a lot of young people who are extremely serious about sports, even in their teens, but this kind of homo ludens, playful man-thinking is missing. This is the kind of game humor we'd need more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u556	Madam President! The publication of the Ministry of Education and Culture from 2017 in other words, a reasonably recent publication, which is all right, presented 12 or as many as 13 different development measures, and these have now been very well put in the finish line. Much has been done well. One thing that comes up here is knowledge management, and knowledge management is fragmented in top-level sport. The budget book says that cooperation between species should be strengthened. What comes to mind as a word is this kind of silent information. We have a lot of former athletes who would be willing to share their own skills, to act as mentors, to provide the information and experience they have to offer. Some of them are coaches and do it for a job or a hobby, but some could do it in some other way, and perhaps such working models and practices are still inventive. I'm here now to take the kind of social media that you're looking at,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u557	Mr President! To this further paralympic issue, which was an important point raised here. Perhaps the idea that the Minister could think about — perhaps we will also consider it in that committee: Now these species unions have done a lot of integration, and they might need some of that little carrot money for it, because there the costs are higher when the assistant goes out and so on. Perhaps there could be a little carrot money at that start, so we could get started and they would take care of that task especially well. Of course, this is not a reason not to worry about it already, but if we think about what we can do in addition to giving a valuable message, perhaps there could be some kind of carrot-nap, so that the issues of equality and equality are taken care of well. Is there any chance there's some kind of wool in this? And then there's the credit thing from the cultural side: I think that is something that we will have to consider in committee. What do you think, Minister, that system of compensation payments as a whole should be reformed into a form that takes greater account of the factors involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u558	Mr President! Rarely do I agree with Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Viitane, but now I do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u559	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u560	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u561	Then Mr Arhinmäki, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u562	Madam President! We're going through a lot of species here when you're a multi-player as a minister. When Minister Grahn-Laasonen was still responsible for the student aid, the government did not only freeze the index with regard to student support but completely deleted it. The previous government tied the student aid to the index, the current government deleted it. In addition, the largest cut was made from any population group, when it was made specifically for students to study for money. About a quarter of the student money, basic security, was cut out. These are the problems that are now evident in the economy. I'm gonna have to compliment you on the material supplement. It is good to make such Band-Aid solutions, but it does not replace these surgery. We hope that it will be a step forward in moving first to free materials at a secondary level, as proposed by the citizens' initiative, and at a later stage to increase the compulsory age to 18 years and to make the second stage compulsory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u563	Then Minister Terho, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u564	Mr President! A lot of topics. I may try to take them now in the order that most talked about. First of all, thank you for the idea of a percentage principle. Of course it suits the minister that resources in his own administrative sector are being increased, and they certainly go for a good purpose in Finland. In any case, on these various issues of money, I am now trying to find the essentials here. For example, this forwarding of the report on sports policy was mentioned in the first speech by Mr Puumala, and it was the long-term approach. You undoubtedly also referred to the monetary side, which is a central part of this overall. That is precisely the intention, because, as you rightly pointed out, the costs of billions are now borne by society alone, i.e. in terms of unemployment. This is perhaps the most important money issue that concerns my entire administrative sector, and this is something that we want to correct. In this report, a life cycle model is built on how to increase mobility in the Finnish country. This compensatory payment, which is also an important issue, was then raised on a number of issues. In other words, this model was actually built in 2014, which is now being followed, and with the logic of this particular model here has become a downward curve. Mr Viitanen raised this report on the subject. That is to say, every two years a report will be made on the evolution of the number of copies, and if you mean the report, it has been done and, in fact, entirely according to the logic that has been followed before my term of office, it has actually made a much greater drop in revenue than it is 2 million, but the ministry has negotiated it more gently, so that it is 2 million. But, as has been pointed out here, I quite agree that there should probably be a more sustainable principle than this one, which leads to inevitably falling money. Can I ask you a minute more so I can answer a few questions? [Second Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen :At his late evening, so be it. One more minute. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u565	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u567	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u568	Mr President! I'm going to focus on this refund payment, its background. In other words, it came into force at the beginning of 2015 and a long process had taken place before that, looking for a new model to deal with this in the future. The old model was out of date. The compromise then came when no other solution was found, which everyone could have accepted together, that we ended up with this budget funding. At that time, the level of funding was raised from around 4 to 5 million to 11 million, and this was a political decision. It was then known that there was no scientific study of what would be the right level, but it doubled from the existing level that was good and right. It was then expressly agreed that the next time we look at these, we need an objective study of what might be the right, reasonable level, so that the factors receive reasonable, good compensation. Now the government has done this without this report — and the Committee on Culture also wanted it to be informed by the end of this year. These studies have not been carried out, and that is what the organisations are wondering at the moment. Similarly, President, I have replied — and confirmed the question — that when the VM now interprets this as having been the case at the time
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u569	Mr President! I listened a lot in that regard to sports activities, what kind of world we live in in Finnish sports. When success has not been achieved, I find it a great deal wrong that Finnish sport has become expensive for young people. Families cannot afford to pay these social security contributions, licenses and insurances. They include the collection of field rents by municipalities and all kinds of similar fees. Especially such low - income families simply deny their children participation in sports and social activities because they have no money. I wondered whether it would be possible to start thinking about how the state would support the fact that municipalities would not even charge these fees for these hall rentals and other similar farm rents, because they are very expensive depending on the species. In hockey, they are priceless, talking about hundreds of euros each month, which must be paid, a little less in another species.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u570	President! We have not discussed the film at all. There's been a lot going on around the movie. There's some of these. Me too studies, the Film Foundation's legislation has been reformed. Then this issue of production subsidies came. It may be more TEM-based, but I could still ask the Minister if there has already been any data on how it has worked. Last year, the 100th anniversary of independence, was a great year for Finnish cinema, and this year will also be. I'm looking forward to two films in particular. Let him not advertise now, but I've already seen one, and I'll go in advance tomorrow to see the other. How does the Minister ultimately see the future of Finnish cinema after these legislative reforms?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u571	Madam President! When we talk about sport and sports, we often focus too much on top sports — of course, when it is the one that is most visible in the public domain. And then there's the idea that by adding money to top-notch sports, the results would improve. But when we compare our public funding in top-notch sport with other Nordic countries, we do not lag behind much, but the big difference comes in private funding. I think that this fund initiative is all right and worthy of support, especially when it starts with the fact that one half comes from the private side. But I still call for us not to have the results — and they are not the most important ones — in top-notch sport unless we have the young people who get to do and move. And as far as this hobby pass is concerned, the idea is to try it, or at least it was before. But when it is essential to have a permanent hobby, to have the team, to have the company, to have it around the community, this is the marginalizing factor when a youth is taken away from that community.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u572	Mr President! I myself was inspired by the good speeches made by colleagues here, and I thought to highlight the miracle of Iceland that I visited in the summer. What in the world did Iceland, whose young people are still the worst in Europe a couple of decades ago, do in two decades, when their young people now feel better than any other European youth? This is particularly relevant to this hobby activity, which has been well mentioned here by a number of colleagues. One key factor here It was precisely the fact that the hobbies were made available to all children, both cultural activities and sports activities. They were brought to schools and school days, and they were also provided for the continuity and communality — the fact that all children and young people had adults to transport them to these hobbies, and the fact that these leisure opportunities were continuous, just as Mr Arhinmäki has just stressed. I would like us in Finland too to move towards this type of development, because Iceland's results are quite remarkable. We should take a look at them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u573	Mr Arhinmäki and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u574	Madam President! On this aspect of art and culture, this issue of VOS reform is very big. We need state-owned agencies. I think that this confrontation between the free field and the VOS is wrong. We need permanent jobs. We also need to have professional permanent jobs, professional theatre, professional museums in the regions, in smaller centres. I've got to compliment the Museum Card. It has been a great innovation, as a huge number of visitors have been made to museums. It has meant that when you had to think earlier about whether to put it in 12 euros, whether I have time, you can now spin for just 15 to 20 minutes, go and see a few works and then come away. This brings us to the question of the Museum of Architecture and Design. You and the City of Helsinki have taken this idea forward. What is its financial pattern now, how has it been thought about? If its funding comes from within the cultural budget — investment and maintenance of a completely new level —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u575	There have been new requests to speak. — Representative Paloniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u576	Madam President! Thank you, Mrs Feldt-Ranna, for bringing up Iceland's miracle. That is an excellent idea, and I think that together we should go out and open it up and see what it means. I would like to comment to the extent that we actually have a little Finnish miracle about how much music we do. Where did the possibility arise that we have so many top professionals on the music side, we have lots of choirs, we have children playing, studying, engaging in music? Yes, it is because, quite early in the day, opportunities for studying and hobbies have been offered. It's kind of part of this miracle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u577	Mr President! To that point, when Mr Arhinmäki spoke about the financing of top sport: I couldn't agree more, of course, that won't solve it. But then it must also be said that it is extremely small. When you compared the cultural budget to the state budget, how small it is, I agree. Then, when we talk about the budget for top-notch sport and compare it to, say, this whole yellow book of ours, it's gonna be hugely small, 12 million, a little more, of course, when you count all the items. However, we are talking about some tens of millions of euros, which means that it is extremely small. Perhaps the most important thing there would be to support these young athletes who live on the poverty line, with their ability to make their breakthroughs and thereby be idolized for those new young people. That is what we have now addressed a couple of times in committee, and it has now gone a little better with these grants. Finally, on this reform of the system of state aids. I would like to renew my question to the Minister: is it still on the same model, or is further working on it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u578	Madam President! I stayed to consider these problems of school exercise. One of the good ways we've been through at least that way inside the clubs is to have a social assistance system developed and carried forward to get these sports clubs into school to run sports lessons and various sports activities. In other words, create these kinds of opportunities, various mobility opportunities there inside. It is a good support for people who do that physical education at school. This is what has been made to go on, carried forward. Now I have been thinking about how this will go forward in the future, because it has always been limited to those operators, and yet the need is continuing inside, because we have so many families and children with little means who are not able to participate otherwise. What follow-up measures have been envisaged for this follow-up scheme?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u579	Mr President! I will also return to this aspect of the cultural aspect of VOS in that I would like to emphasise the point of view of this whole reform, just as Mr Arhinmäki once again, that these must not be put against each other, but that we should see the great significance of the whole reform. Not only are people better able, are part of creativity and spiritual well-being is growing, so also the purely related effect of this yellow book is, of course, that when there are different areas where these theaters, orchestras, museums are, the vitality is growing, the economy is growing, employment is growing, so our economy is better off too, if you could say so. This has so many broad dimensions of well-being, economy, employment, everything, which is why, Minister, I think it would be worthwhile as soon as possible to find those missing millions and carry out this reform, to make that investment in culture, which is precisely the aim of this percentage principle, and then later,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u580	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki took a position on the financing of Finnish top sport, which I think Mr Puumala responded well to, but the problem is certainly not whether it is now 12 million or 13 million or even 20 million. Of course, 20 million would help, but the problem is how resources are allocated, who is in charge of top Finnish sports. I believe that these are the issues that I would like to see taken up in the report on sports policy. If today the Finn does not do well at the European Championships, then I don't know who I'm going to call and bark to either: is it the Minister of Sports or is it the President of the Olympic Committee, or is it the Director of the Research Centre on Competition and Top Sports or who. I think this is a problem. We should make clear rules on who is responsible for top-level Finnish sport, and resources will then be allocated to it. For we could certainly get more out of these little resources that are being put on top sport at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u581	President! We have really great things to which Mr Paloniemi referred, precisely this, that children engage in music, visual art to a large extent. Everything affects everything. When children, through basic art education, come to music colleges — they become only a few professional musicians — they are a kind of a kind of a person to live, for example, in provincial orchestras. Without an audience, orchestras do not get along, and often such ones, who have been instilled in music as a child, retain it throughout life. There are similar examples in many areas of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u582	Mr President! Mr Paloniemi was also enthusiastic about this issue of Iceland. I wanted to raise the issue once again, when we have talked a lot about the possibility of sports facilities and facilities here, that: In fact, Iceland was precisely behind the evidence and the fact that there was a need for guided action in addition to opportunities. It was the key in Iceland. In Iceland, municipalities are very closely following the fact that every child receives this activity passport, and not only that everyone receives it, but that everyone uses it. If, for some reason, it is not used in a residential area or in a population group, it is addressed and sought to organise activities that these children and their families want to use. That means not only opportunities, but also guided action and systematic monitoring — this is what we can learn from Iceland. I hope that Mr Terho will also catch up and look into this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u583	And then, Mr Arhinmäki, and then we will give the Minister an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u584	Madam President! This right for children and young people to engage in sports is, in my opinion, the biggest issue, whether we talk about culture and art or about sports and sports. It brings that social capital, it brings it to the community, and it brings them to the experience of success. But even with this, not everyone can handle it. You are also in charge of young people, Mr Terho, and it is now essential that we try to ensure that no one falls. But unfortunately, some fall. How do we see to it that the youth work we are looking for works, see to it that there are such Vamos-type projects where the very basics of life — waking up in the morning, eating breakfast, the rhythm of day — are being discussed? This is how we can bring young people back to society. We cannot afford to lose any young people, which is why youth work also has:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u585	And now for the reply, Minister Terho, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u586	Mr President! Let us also take from the first round of questions what I did not have time to answer. First of all, a lot of people asked about moving school and its future. As we remember, In the first place, the mobile school was the leading project in the field of state aid for a limited period of time, but from the beginning 50% of the funding was provided by municipalities. Since this has been so well put in place, knowing also these limitations originally imposed, I believe and my officials believe that this moving school will now continue under the responsibility of the municipalities, as it was originally intended. Now that this is being strongly taken to the second stage too, we believe and hope that it will leave as well. Several people referred to the reform of the VOS. Indeed, we could talk very much about this reform, but briefly the story that has taken place in my time: In the middle of the parliamentary term, I became a minister and in the middle of this process, when this report was prepared by the working group of experts on how to act. At a very early stage, too, it dawned on me that it would not be possible to carry out this reform without additional funding. [Quick Five] Equality in sport is a topic for all of us to talk about, and indeed this hobby passport, which is one step in the right direction, has already been raised here for me. You can really try it, but it doesn't necessarily give you an eternal chance. At this point, it is intended to be an experiment, i.e. an experiment for its young person, but as a national system, but in such a way that the young person is given a temporary opportunity to familiarise himself with various hobbies. That's one step. The second, of course, is the availability of sports facilities, and this is the social assistance that has been raised, which is specifically targeted at hobbies where the monthly fees are less than EUR 50. These are all important. It was rightly pointed out that it is precisely there that young people — and hopefully young sportsmen — will also be the top athletes. And then again, those top athletes inspire young people to play sports. So this is an entity where you should avoid confrontations. The current debate on the management and resources of top-level sport is one that will also be taken up in this report. It is a very vivid example that Mrs Wallinheim brought to her that she does not know who to complain to about poor success. Perhaps the purpose of the system has been that it is not quite clear who is responsible for any bad success. But what I think is that a politician should be an enabler above all and then professionals should take the lead as strongly as possible. The good point about the Olympic Fund is that private support in Finland is lagging behind many of our competitors. Let us hope that this will now contribute to the increase in private support for top sport. However, the importance of top-level sport for citizens remains, despite the fact that success has been worse than in the years running. 74 per cent of Finns have reported in surveys that top sports are important to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u587	Now the section of the Ministry of Education and Culture has been discussed, and so we shall now move on to the list of speakers. Representative Heinäluoma — absent, representative Huhtasaari — absent, representative Hoskonen — absent, representative Salolainen — absent, representative Pakkanen — absent. Congressman Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u588	Mr President! I must say that even an experienced man sometimes gets the floor almost unexpectedly and unexpectedly, because I had no idea that this is where the list is going so quickly. But that is all right, Mr President. I have a lot to say. With regard to this general debate, there are actually two themes which I would like to highlight here in particular. — Well, that's a good theme since the last few months. First of all, I would like to start with this big issue, which is inequality and the distribution of income that we have been discussing. Once again, I would like to underline the striking fact that once again, unfortunately, the government remained on its own and acted in such a way that, as a result of this budget too, one third of people are losing income, and that third is precisely the lowest-income people. Unfortunately, that is not surprising, but in my opinion it is very clear evidence of the government's value choices once again. This is, after all, a question of value choices, Mr President, when we are also making these state budgets. And now I have to say once again that money has seemed to be enough for tax solutions, for example, for tax reductions in millions of inheritances and all of these, but once again that little person has been forgotten. One detail here is probably precisely the big factor, namely that, despite everything, these index cuts to basic human security continue. And they continue despite the fact that the economy is growing — which, of course, is a good thing when the wind comes from the world, and that is why its growth should belong to everyone. I would like to repeat, Mr President, that every summer during this government, I have heard, for example, the demands of the Centre Group, the summer demands, the fact that we now have a problem with the poor, that we must take measures to combat pensioners' poverty, all of this. In fact, I have been a little excited during the summer, waiting for the budget debate to become that way, when the main government party so strongly demands them. But no matter how disappointing, then it has always been when the cuts have continued and exactly the same, the ideologies of the coalition have been made. So we need a change of direction. If not, I hope that the people will then give their opinion on this development, which is what it is at the moment. The second point, Mr President, which I would like to say for myself, is, in my view, a very important theme at this stage when we are living in the autumn, of course, is working life, its safety overall. It has been a pity to see that in this day to day the government is still rather obstinate in bringing this motion to make it easier to fire. One day I looked at the editorial in the morning paper, and even the editorial headlined that why the government believes that it would be easier to fire more jobs. This is not supported by any research data, and there is a feeling that the whole field of employees is now genuinely and rightly concerned about following this and resisting it, that from teachers to nurses this is opposed to the fact that the government needs to fight with people, as it were, and to take forward such a controversial proposal, which is also unfair in the sense that many people find themselves in a very merciless and helpless position, however, with this possible new law. This too, unfortunately, is a continuation of the government of previous years. We all remember these unfortunate threats of forced law, the resulting holiday money cuts, the cuts in unemployment security, and then we remember the speciality of Minister Lindström, which is, of course, this stone in a bun, or active model. He will indeed remain in history as a minister who baked the stone with a bun and refuses to take it away. It is for a reason that the citizens are upset about this active model. And now, in fact, the last thing here is a motion to make it easier for you to fire me. Here, President, the top two major themes which I think the government should reconsider in connection with this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u589	Mr President! Mankind has two great questions of fate for all mankind and for the planet as a whole. Climate change is better known and has also been mentioned in the Chamber today. The loss of biodiversity is an equal threat to our future but much less aware in general. Scientists have warned that the sixth major extinction wave in earth’s history is underway. It is difficult to see from the Government's budget book that the government would be aware of it and would contribute to halting the loss of biodiversity by the turn of the next decade, as Finland has committed itself to by international agreement. It is great that more money is coming for the protection of the Baltic Sea, but also for biodiversity and the protection of forest and soil carbon sinks would like to see a similar wake-up call. After all, during this term of government, the reduction in the budget for environmental protection has been about half of the level used in the previous government. The Government has already acknowledged that Finland will not remain in its UN commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. We may live in a certain human hybrid and delusion, thinking that the earth is like a vessel we just use and in which we can do about anything. The reality, however, is that man himself is a product of living nature, a product of evolution, and in many ways we are dependent on ecosystems. Perhaps the simplest thing to understand is that we need oxygen to breathe, and for that we need forests and oceans. We also need food, we need the plants that feed us and our livestock. Three-quarters of people's food plants need pollinators. What affects pollinators also affects other insects. Insect loss is one of the concerns associated with the ongoing sixth extinction wave, and insect loss is also reflected, for example, in the earlier decline of very common bird populations. These are now just a few examples of what biodiversity also means to people. Last week, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection consulted experts on this issue, and there was one whole ecosystem that was strongly raised. Since bog ecosystems are one of the most endangered in Finland, the protection of bogs would be very urgent for the protection of the whole biodiversity. Soil protection is also important for climate protection. This is one of those things that the government has not sufficiently taken into account. The Greens have also pointed out that although the government has promised that climate is one of the most important things, and the Minister of Finance has also spoken of beautiful climate and climate considerations in the budget, this is hardly really reflected in the budget. We still have subsidies, including tax subsidies, which favour the consumption of fossil fuels, of a magnitude of one billion. And for example, the tax subsidy for peat was EUR 105 million per year at the start of this government, and even if the tax on peat is raised from the reduced level to which the government fell at the beginning of its term of office, the Ministry of Finance estimates that the tax subsidy for peat will be more than EUR 180 million next year. So I would like to emphasise that all the money we use to promote the use of fossil fuels makes climate protection more expensive. Mr President! I exceeded five minutes and then I would like to ask for another floor. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : It,representative,may exceed. That five minutes is a recommendation. If there is something to be said, of course, there is still a little time to go on. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u590	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u591	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u592	That's very polite of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u593	Mr President! We have now spent two days discussing next year's budget, and the speeches have been guaranteed. The economy is growing, employment is improving, and we thank the government for that. I would therefore like to thank the government for this economic growth and for the increase in employment. This year, the Finnish economy is expected to grow by around 3 per cent. It is a hard figure and it is also visible in employment. But, Mr President, now that I have thanked the government for the way in which the government itself has achieved economic and employment growth, one thing I have been wondering about is that the Ministry of Finance estimates that next year the economy will only grow by 1.7%. So, if it is mainly the government's fault that economic growth and employment are improved, then why on earth will the government almost halve economic growth next year? So does the government do a little trick, a bleak, to the next, red-green government and deliberately reduce economic growth? Or would it be the case, however, that the government’s role in improving employment has mainly been to clean up statistics? Rather, we should like to thank the European Central Bank, the ECB, for its massive recovery, and the good economic development of Finland's key export countries for the real increase in employment and economic growth. In other words, if economic growth is just and only the government's fault, then the deterioration of economic growth estimated next year will probably be the government's fault. Mr President! In addition to the fact that next year the government will probably have its own budget to stamp out economic growth, Prime Minister Sipilä will still be further weakening the situation. When the government forced the trade unions, the trade unions into the so-called competitiveness pact, Prime Minister Sipilä went around the governments of the trade unions and promised that, when you adopted the competitiveness pact, the government would force a reduction in the holiday allowance for workers in the low-paid, female-dominated sectors of the public sector, when working hours were extended without being rewarded, i.e. wages being cut off — then a promise was made, not cut off from the unemployed, will no longer weaken the position of workers. The people in these trade union governments, with whom I myself have spoken, really felt that the Prime Minister made a promise, and they trusted that. But what has the Prime Minister done? The government pushed through an active model, which is equal to a model of cutting from the unemployed. It is, in fact, a passive model which is still passive for the unemployed, not activating. And now the government is undermining the protection of employees in companies with fewer than 20 employees. From Akava to STTK, the central bodies of the SAK, trade unions from OAJ to Tehy, have announced that they will take major action against the proposal. And there are two reasons why. Firstly, trade unions, trade unions cannot accept the fact that they are being pulled over and over again and cheated by the Prime Minister. On the other hand, we cannot give up on this issue if we want to defend people's courage to stand up for workers, to act professionally, to raise the issue of malpractices without the constant fear of dismissal. Even on the business side, the government’s presentation, which has been in the consultation process, does not seem to have any support and understanding. Only Finnish Entrepreneurs are in favour when others see the harmfulness of this presentation to the Finnish economy. Even on the basis of reports commissioned by the government itself, the weakening of the protection against dismissal does not increase employment, even though this has been the reason for the government's proposal. When the reasoning does not apply, according to the government's own reports, when both employee organisations and the majority of the industry are opposed to this, or at least do not think it makes sense, then the question must be asked whether the Prime Minister would be in favour of: The pig takes his new blue glasses, his ideological spectacles, off the eyes and act rationally? The government should announce that it will not further facilitate dismissal. This would avoid overtime bans, shift bans and other labour-force measures. Yes, the interests of Finland and Finns should be the first priority, the rights of hard-working Finns and the fact that the economy remains in good shape, rather than making such ideological proposals. My message is: Pull the motion or don't bring it to Parliament. Maintain a good economic situation and maintain peace in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u594	Mr President! Now that we have dealt with this government budget proposal, the general view on the part of the government seems to be that things are so much better and the opposition is so ungrateful that we do not praise the great achievements of the government that employment has improved and that the economy is on a more stable footing. But I don't see that we don't appreciate this job. Of course we are all glad that the employment situation is now better. We are all glad that the sovereign debt has been reversed. But this debate is more about how it has been done. Of course, we can also argue about who it is, whether it is the government's fault or whether it is the general economic cycle, whether it is the decisions of the previous government, or whether it is the government's — it may not be the most fruitful debate, and it may not be worth it. I myself would like to draw attention to how this government policy has been implemented. The big problem here is that, while employment has grown, the economy has grown, yet we have a group of people who have been left out of this growth which has now been and which is now being distributed in this budget, especially since these lowest-income groups were the first to be cut off when the government began its term of office. It stated that there was a need to save and everyone must participate in these efforts and be involved in bringing the economy up. I think that now that the economy has been brought up and there is something to be shared, these lowest-income groups should be the first group to be given. It is true that as employment improves, the position of many unemployed people has improved, and this is a great thing, but we have a number of people who do not have access to the labour market. For example, they are pensioners. Their own economic situation cannot be improved by having a job, and therefore index cuts to these benefits, which affect these very least-incomed people in the world of work, should now have been cancelled when we can afford to share. Instead of a steady reduction in taxes for all, tax reductions should have been targeted at the most low incomes and, above all, at those who do not have income tax at all but rely on these benefits. After all, the government itself carried out a study on the economic impact on women, or, in other words, the impact of this economic policy on equality, and it was quite harshly shown that women have suffered most from the economic policy of the Sipilä government. This is precisely because of these cuts and freezes in the indexes of social benefits, and since we know that there are a large number of pensioners, women over 75 years of age, and women's pension is already on average around EUR 400 a month less than men's pension, these cuts have now been targeted at these very low-income women, and pensioner poverty is increasing. Up to 86% of women of retirement age have lost more than EUR 50 as a result of the measures taken by this government, and that is a huge figure. Unfortunately, in the fight for equality that we are trying to do, both for equal pay and for equality in the rest of the world, no progress has been made during this government, because also the kiky cuts and the arrests of holiday money were directed at the public sector, precisely where women work the most, the women-dominated sectors of the public sector. They have suffered from the policy of the Sipilä government. Therefore, the fact that the government has now made this report on the effects of gender equality is a good thing, because it tells a harsh language about how these decisions have affected different genders, but such explanations should be made already at the stage when decisions are made, not afterwards. The same is true of sustainable development budgeting: it is great that such tools are being created, but they must also be used at the time when decisions are made. They have no use at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u595	Mr President! During the general debate, we have had a lot of interesting speeches in the past two days as we went through the fields of activity of the various ministries. While this debate is going to its end, I would like to draw attention in general to two points which describe this debate as a whole and which, in my opinion, are worth mentioning. When we talk about the current regime and now, in particular, next year's budget, a great many speeches have said that the opposition sees no good in the government's policy or decisions they make. This argument paints, in my view, a very one-sided picture of the debate in this Chamber, because words of thanks have also been heard. However, the expectations and demands that the opposition should first of all thank the government for its policy are strange in view of the origins of democracy. Finally, the question of whether or not thanks have come and from which quarters is not the most relevant aspect of this referral debate either. In the end, the differences in values between the parties are the background to all the debate. In the case of the government parties, the values will ultimately become concrete in the legislative and budgetary proposals that the government will table in this Chamber. They are now assessed in relation to next year's economy, but also in relation to education policy, economic and fiscal policy, social policy, environment and energy issues, etc. It is clear that we cannot share the overall concept of these themes with the government from our values. This is not based on the general argument that the opposition does not wish to act in any other way. In my view, the way in which representatives of the government parties take up the details of individual laws and proposals is intended to undermine this general picture for voters as well. There is always something good to see, but the whole is what counts. Mr President! I do not sign the claim that the SDP, as an opposition party, would concentrate solely on opposing everything that has been said. We have not argued that the increases proposed by the government are inappropriately targeted or that they are not appropriate. Personally, I feel that genuine thanks in this respect are in order. However, with genuine thanks, I am thinking of the fact that it does not contain thorns aimed at turning the debate into the weaknesses of the other side. However, it is fair and justifiable to say that the government's policy in general during this term of government cannot be described in terms of education, basic services and social security, the municipal economy, research and development, the prevention of climate change, the welfare of families or the most vulnerable — that is, when we look at the whole. In four years, when a shift is cut and added, the end result will be a shredded mess that will be very difficult for the ordinary citizen to understand. Surely none of us can seriously suggest that individual additions, as necessary, remove the fact that they do not cover the cuts and weakenings that have been made on similar targets. As an ordinary citizen, I myself do not understand the logic of drawing the conclusion that this is a turning point and that the shortcomings are being corrected. Mr President! The main criticisms, the main criticisms that have been made in this Chamber have been that the government's proposal lacks large future investments that are vital for socially, economically and ecologically sustainable growth. I believe that the challenges — the challenges repeatedly referred to — can only be solved with long-term political guidelines for the future. Four years is a very short period from the point of view of development. One of the main difficulties is that these policies should be jointly built, cross-party signature. This will not be possible without broad parliamentaryism and a genuine common debate on the objectives we are pursuing in the legislative field. The SDP has provided the government with five sustainable growth-supporting reforms, the implementation of which would have been possible as early as next year's budget. We would have had the opportunity to reform family leave so that the needs of families living in different stages and situations of life are taken into account. Our model supports family freedom and equality between parents by increasing flexibility and improving the position of women in the labour market. We would have been able to invest in education, including by extending compulsory education and making secondary education free of charge. We would have had the opportunity to develop early childhood education in such a way that all children could genuinely have access to high-quality pre-school education and day care. Finally, we would have had the opportunity to carry out a tax reform for employment and welfare. These are the openings that are lacking in this draft budget. And that's a shame, because there's a rush to invest in the future. We would have had the opportunity to start them together already during this period. Now the responsibility for them rests with the coming seasons, and we can only hope that the mistakes made in the next government negotiations will be learned and able to have an open and genuine dialogue based on interaction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u596	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. For a good and constructive speech. That was a lot of analysis. President! I was already talking a long time ago about the podium. I am not going to say any more here, but I would like to say one thing, since we have now talked about the structure of the budget and the fact that it is good that certain themes such as sustainable development are being taken up and that we want to look at things in a comprehensive way. One thing that we were thinking about, among other things, by the Committee on Finance's Section for Education and Science, was when we gave an opinion on his report to the Commissioner for Children and then asked that the Committee on Finance also analyse this view precisely in relation to how such matters should be taken into account in the state budget. I think it was a positive, good and important thing that the entire Committee on Finance, in its opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, took the view that, for many reasons in the future, we must make serious efforts to assess precisely the impact of the draft budget and the various plans on the welfare of children, both at state level and at municipal level. I believe that this is an important theme to take forward, also because there are many reasons why special attention should be paid to children. There's that future. This is also reflected in our international obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And so I would also like to say here that, when we are talking about the overall budget in the budget referral debate, this impact assessment, including the impact assessment on children, has already made clear the health of one committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u597	Mr President! What I have just said is that supporting the use of fossil fuels by means of tax concessions or other means makes climate change more expensive than it would otherwise have to be. In addition, subsidies favouring the use of fossil fuels, which are still, even next year's budget proposal, worth a billion dollars, are taking money away from important things, things that really are crucial for the construction of our future, such as education and research. Economists point out that education and research are among the most productive investments in the national economy. Using money in them is the right investment in the future of the nation. Subsidies favouring the use of fossil fuels are also draining money from development cooperation, taking money, for example, to support poor women in the world, a considerable number of whom get pregnant against their will, so that information on sexuality, reproduction, prevention is better available and prevention tools are also better available. This is one of the key issues for the development of societies, not only that it is, of course, one of the key issues for women's lives and rights. In addition to the fact that the government has certainly not been able to reduce subsidies favouring the use of fossil fuels, this government has also taken away from development cooperation funds the revenue from the state's emissions trading. But there are, of course, positive aspects of the government's climate policy, as was already pointed out by Minister Tiilikainen's contribution to this debate in the Chamber. One of the good things is the government's promise to ban the burning of coal by 2029, and I look forward to the bill on this which the government has promised. Something like that should be done with peat. The Greens have therefore proposed setting a due date, setting the expiry date, for all fossil fuels, so that by the end of next decade, coal, peat and heating oil would be disposed of and natural gas and the use of oil in transport would be abandoned by the end of the 2030s and during the 2030s, Finland would also be carbon neutral. Last year, a study was published that in order to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement — that is to say, to curb climate change well below 2°C, closer to 1.5°C — all mankind should be able to halve its emissions every 10 years for several decades. This means that reductions in emissions are really urgent. There really is no time for us to say that something is being done here that is now increasing emissions for a little while, but then sometimes in more than 50 years or 100 years' time it will be easier. There are very few countries in the world whose national emissions targets are in line with the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. We are used to considering the EU as a global climate good, but also the emission reduction targets adopted so far by the EU, in which Finland is involved, are not in line with the objective of the Paris climate agreement, but it is estimated that they are in line with something a little below 3° below climate change. If climate change were to get this far, it would already mean very extensive, very destructive changes that would affect at least hundreds of millions of people's lives. Last week, there was an international climate conference in San Francisco to introduce: [The President knocks ] Finland’s own Sitra has also highlighted in international fora how the Nordic methods can be used in other parts of the world and how this can help to achieve global emission reduction targets. Sitra has also stated that in order to ensure Finland’s own emissions targets,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u598	Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you, just in case, of what has been decided by the Council of Presidents on the course of this referral debate. In other words, the maximum length of the speech in advance is no more than 5 minutes. Even in those speeches which have not been asked in advance, which are then requested here during the debate, the recommendation is five minutes, but if the representative considers it important that he can continue, he can do so up to a maximum of seven minutes. This, as it were, is to refresh the memory of what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u599	Mr President! Mr Hassi mentioned the year 2050, which was easily remembered. The Finnish Fund for Independence has really estimated that by 2050 Finland's emission reductions should be 130 per cent. 2050 sounds a long way off, but it's not that far away in human life. My children are 45, 43, 40 and 34 years old in 2050. I am, if I'm okay, 74 years old. By that year 2050 it is likely that it will be resolved how this climate crisis will be solved, whether we succeed in it or not. At least I want to look my children in the eye and say that we tried our best. Mr President! The subject is so important that it is particularly part of this debate on the budget. The subject is also so topical that it is therefore absolutely part of this budgetary debate. No one could have missed the subject. The past heat summer, with its forest fires, crop damage and blue algae rafts, has awakened people to the reality of climate change. We have a choice ahead of us: either we change the way we produce energy, move, live, consume and live, or we destroy the foundation on which our well-being and society are built. The next generation will no longer have that choice. The climate crisis must be combated now. It must be rejected almost in every decision that we take, and in particular in the decisions on the state budget that we are debating today. Finns deserve to know how ambitious climate action the parties are really committed to, and this budget book, which is before you, sees the present strength of the government parties and the seriousness of their attitude to climate change. We Greens do not think it is enough at all. Although things are being said in the right direction, the magnitude should be even more ambitious. People's concerns about the progress of climate change are growing and, at the same time, the demands for concrete political decisions to combat the climate crisis are growing. Climate protection must be number one. Indeed, all other social and political objectives will lose their meaning if we do not succeed in combating the climate crisis. Mr President! I believe that Finland must be a forerunner in solving the climate crisis and translate solutions into competitiveness, new innovations and jobs. There is demand for climate-friendly alternatives all over the world. We can't afford to wake up on the after-train. In accordance with the Paris Agreement, the objective must be to halt the warming to well below 2°C, preferably to 1.5°C. Warming up is something we cannot stop altogether; it has been going on for a long time. It has been estimated that as far back as the 2020s, we have already released so much carbon dioxide that warming by 1.5 degrees is inevitable. An emotional and radical change of direction is therefore also absolutely necessary. Mr President! The next government must take the fight against climate change seriously. The current government has increased, or at least promoted, a policy that has increased forest fellings regardless of the carbon sink in forests and has continued to lay money on fossil energy subsidies, supporting peat burning regardless of emissions. This direction must be reversed and it must be done soon. We need to tighten targets and set a deadline for fossil fuels. We Greens have put forward those due dates. New thinking and new ways must be introduced and the courage to reform and give up the old one. We must act now and safeguard the future. It's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u600	Mr President! The Finnish economy is going through a lot — this is an acclaim we have actually heard for two days here. But who will benefit from this economic growth? Who collects the fruits of economic growth? When the reign began when the poor were cut off, the low incomes were cut off, it was said that everyone should take part in the voluntary work. Now that there is a chance, will the cuts made by the government for low incomes be compensated? If you look at the Ministry of Finance's own calculations, they say that one third of the population will be one whose disposable income will fall next year, even though the economy will grow — one third. And this third is not well-paid; it is the lowest income. The sign of a civilised society is how well it takes care of the most vulnerable. This government will continue to cut off low incomes during the boom season, even in good times. Although the economy is doing well, according to the government, never does the right-wing government, the bourgeois government, apparently go so well that cuts for low incomes can be reversed. Not even for next year. No, no, no. For example, pensioners and unemployed people will be cut by index freezes next year, just as they have been in previous years. The freezing of the index has made a hole of EUR 300 million in the income of the lowest incomes. For some, however, the government wants to share more. The government uses the income of low incomes, but at the same time it drills new holes in the tax base. The aim is to set up a new equity savings account for investments. The costs are estimated at EUR 160 million. According to the government, this is national capitalism when everyone can invest EUR 50,000 in stock exchange shares and their dividends do not have to be taxed as long as they are held in the equity savings account. Well, now I'm just wondering who's taking part in this popular capitalism. For example, do nannies, midwives, or nurses from whom the government has cut vacation money? After the holiday allowance cuts, are they going to invest EUR 50000 in shares in listed companies and put them in a stock savings account? Mr President! Sweden has introduced an investment savings account and has reviewed who has benefited from this. Surprisingly the most wealthy. It is said that this will not happen in Finland because a low ceiling of EUR 50000 has been set for investments. But, in fact, there has already been a great deal of controversy about it in this system. When they were driving this stock savings account, they were driving it that it had no roof at all. And the blue mark is that, despite opposition, when this went through, just like the control register, they were given a ceiling of EUR 50,000 at this point. Is it the case that, because of this ceiling, the hardworking workers whose holiday money has been cut will benefit from this, or would it be the case that the benefits of this stock savings account will also be collected by those who are the most well-off who have EUR 50000 in shares? Mr President! This, as a matter of fact, shows what government policy is for whom it benefits. Even in the peak years of the boom, when the economy is going through hard times, no money was found to cancel the index freezes. But for new ways of transferring tax payments, there is always understanding from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u601	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u602	Mr President! When Sipilä’s government started, it spoke of a strategic government programme, but it feels that there is no strategic grip on that budget book. It seems that the government sees public finances as a mere item of expenditure and does not at all understand that some of the functions and tasks of public finances are to ensure and prepare for the future in order to ensure that employment continues to be good, that our skills are high, that we can create new things through research, development and innovation. Education, training and training are the means by which we will be able to ensure the success of our country in the future, but it seems that the government has only seen education as an item of expenditure. Nearly EUR 900 million has been cut from education this season, and this is reflected in everyday life at every level from early childhood education to university and research institutes. With regard to early childhood education, we all know how important it is to each child's path of learning, and the more we invest in it, we will see to it that the groups are small, that everyone has the right to early childhood education, which equalises the social differences and smooths the path of learning forward, so the better we will ensure that every child and young person gets good opportunities for the future, and, on the other hand, that we will have a good, skilled, trained workforce in the future that this country needs. In the case of comprehensive school and upper secondary school, municipalities around Finland have had to make arrangements for the funding of their own educational institutions to remain adequate. For example, learning materials in many municipalities around Finland have had to be set to a minimum, and books are being recycled for so many years that there is already going to be completely outdated information there. In vocational education, the government has cut extremely hard, and we know that it is visible in the daily lives of vocational schools. Comprehensive school pupils aged 15 year long for local education, but there is very little of it in vocational schools. It is not self-learning, it is not easy for many people to carry out tasks independently after comprehensive school. These young people often have the impression that if there is no local education in the school order, there is no school at all. Well, this of course leads to our young people not getting the skills they want from a vocational school, and then businesses, working life wonders when young people graduate from a vocational school and they do not have the basic skills they should. That is why it is extremely important that we ensure that our comprehensive school is of such quality — there is sufficient resources, there is sufficient support for each student — that, after comprehensive school, every young person is able to move to a secondary level and complete their studies there. We know that today, on a mere basis of primary school, we cannot survive. Today's working life will continue to change and require more training from us throughout our career. Those good skills need to be achieved there in comprehensive school, and that is why we need to invest in that basic education in order for our young people to get to second grade, and we need to ensure that every young person gets to second grade and complete a secondary degree. That is the only way we will have skilled workers in the future. Well, when you go to college of applied sciences, college, that's where this government's cut pretty hard. Now the government is delighted that research money has been put in there, but at the same time, index cuts from our university and polytechnic will take more money from next year. It is quite absurd that these small patches, which are welcome in themselves after drastic cuts, have been made such project and project funds, which must be applied for separately, which will further burden the lives of these tightly drawn student bodies when you have to waste your project and application and apply for separate projects. That is why basic funding needs to be put in place, we need to invest in basic research, we need to ensure that our basic education is strong, everyone gets support there, so that every young person can continue the learning path after basic education. And for this to work and for our future to work out: the speeches by Mr Hassi and Mr Halmemenpää on how we need to take climate change seriously are actually the basis of it all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u603	Mr President! I'm still on with the climate. The emission reduction targets of Finland’s national climate programme for sectors not involved in EU CO2 emissions trading rely to a very large extent on increasing the use of forest bioenergy. And this is what includes the blind spot of government climate policy — or the black dot, however you want to see it — because scientists have pointed out that a strong increase in forest fellings from the present level would severely reduce the carbon sink of forests. This is the most important question in terms of Finland's net impact on climate change. In today's debate on the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, Minister As far as the bricks are concerned, I understand that he too admits that, in terms of the climate, the reduction in carbon sink is as bad as the increase in emissions, and this is indeed the case. According to the impact assessment of the Government's own climate and energy strategy, if forest fellings grow as planned, carbon sinks will decrease to such an extent that it will undermine the climate benefit of halving transport emissions and reducing emissions in other sectors, i.e. Finland's net impact on climate change would not be cleaned up at all before 2030. But in fact, when researchers from the BIOS Research Institute reviewed Finland’s country report on emissions to the UN — which anticipates the impact of policy measures on the future and has been made by Statistics Finland — they found that the decline in carbon sinks of forests is, according to this report to the United Nations, even greater than the reduction in emissions, when Finland’s net emissions into the atmosphere by 2030 would increase by about 30 per cent. The national climate panel established under the Climate Change Act, which is therefore a body of scientists whose legitimate task is to advise us political decision-makers on climate issues, has also informed the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for example, immediately after the Paris climate conference, that if deforestation increases significantly, carbon sinks will be reduced for many decades. The recommendation of the Climate Panel is that there should be no significant increase in fellings, and then, in addition to what we make of wood raw materials, we should do our best to increase the production of sustainable wood products, i.e. wood products with a long lifetime, such as wood construction and wooden furniture. And the share of short-lived products — of which wood energy is the most short-lived, but also, for example, paper is quite short-lived — should be reduced if we wanted to make the best use of forests for the climate. Researchers have found it confusing and worrying that, in public debate, the government has only wanted to highlight emission reductions or planned emission reductions in other sectors and has tried to keep quiet about the government's own efforts, on the other hand, reducing carbon sinks. Over 60 Finnish researchers have drawn attention to this. A large number of top European researchers have also warned that if bioenergy is increased in the EU in such a way that it is printed with wool to reduce the carbon sink of forests, then it is a disservice to the climate. For example, Professor van Ypersele, former vice-chairman of the IPCC, i.e. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has pointed out that when the forest is cut and the new forest is planted, those seedlings can, of course, absorb carbon dioxide from the air but, at best, take decades, well over 50 years before the carbon sink of the forest returns to the level it was before felling. And he has warned, among other things, that by 2050 the energy use of wood can be up to two to three times worse than that of fossils. Mr President! In order to really bear our own climate responsibility, at least the following things must be done: We must set a due date for all fossil fuels, not just coal, but for others, such as peat and oil and gas. Stronger efforts must be made to promote decentralised energy production and to change the rules of the electricity market so that the role of a small consumer producer can increase, including the development of smart grids and smart grid services. Forest carbon sinks must be maintained at least at the current level. Passenger transport must be electrified. The share of public transport and light transport must be increased and their service level improved. Biofuels have their place, but they should not be wasted on passenger transport, but must be saved for heavy traffic. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Representative Hassi,7minutes have passed. When the recommendation is five minutes, somehow you can go to seven, but this time no more than seven. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u604	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u605	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-19-ps-86.u606	We have agreed here on the rules of the game, and now we just have to stick to them once and for all. After that, if they are not adhered to, it will be extremely impossible and difficult for another representative to knock as soon as he exceeds the time allowed, and that is why I have to be strict here.
