ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by Mr Antti Lindtman and others. the question of working conditions for young people. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 May 2018. In the debate, Antti Lindtman, supported by Ilmari Nurminen, supported by Touko Aalto Ozan Yanari and supported by Thomas Blomqvist Joakim Strand, have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u2	Mr Lindtman's proposal is put to the vote against Mr Touko Aalto's proposal and then against Thomas Blomqvist's proposal. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u3	The third item on the agenda is the topical debate on the EU financial framework in honour of Europe Day. After 10 minutes of the Government's speech, I will give two minutes' replies to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to the extent proposed by the Council of Presidents. I will then give you the 1-minute response in the order I am considering. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. A maximum of 1.5 hours is set aside for the discussion. Let's start with the Prime Minister's presentation. Prime Minister Sipilä, please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u4	Mr President! While I wish everyone a happy Europe day, I thank Parliament for its confidence. For Finland, membership of the European Union is a political choice that links us to the Western community of values. On Europe Day, it is good to reflect on the common values of the Union and what membership of the Union means to us. The European Union is a community with which we share common values in respect of democracy, equality, human rights, freedom of expression, the rule of law and the rights of minorities. Our common goal is to strengthen the well-being of Europeans. This whole package will safeguard the stability of Europe's development and peace. On Europe Day, it is good to remember that peace is never taken for granted. The European Community was founded in the midst of war-torn societies. For many EU citizens today, democracy in the 1980s was a fragile hope for the future, even utopia. Our democracy is still young and therefore fragile in many countries. Europe's decision-making capacity is not solved by calls for votes, polls or Twitter democracy, but by our ability to take decisions and develop a European decision-making system. It is based on representativeness, which we must stand up for. We must also bear in mind what the Union is doing and why the Union is an important community for citizens. It is up to the leaders of the European Union to look far into the future and to seek the support of the citizens, both within the European Union and in the Member States, for reforms to be carried through. The European Union must be great in big things and small in small things. One of the EU's most important instruments is the EU budget, the financial framework, which will guide the Union's action and objectives. At its worst, the budget is a terrible compromise, the lowest common denominator. At best, it will pursue common European goals. Now it is time for Europe to be great. It is natural that each EU country should also look at the financial frameworks from its own national perspective, what the budget will bring us, Finland. But the EU budget must also be viewed from a European perspective. Why? Because I am sure that a strong and successful Europe is best for all of us. Mr President! The negotiations on the financial framework are long and thorough. The proposal published by the Commission last week is just the beginning. As a government, we are prepared for this. We have done the groundwork thoroughly and have set clear budget positions by sector. Above all, it is a whole in which we can achieve the best possible result for Finland and also for Europe. Our positions have been worked on for a long time and carefully. The process has been just as thorough as when we created our Emu stock or our migration agenda. Together with France, we built the basis for EU defence cooperation. The model is the same in the negotiations on the financial framework. We will look into it, we will think carefully about the positions and then we will seek allies from different European countries. Britain's departure from the European Union leaves a significant gap in the EU budget. Our starting point is that the gap left by Britain will not be filled and our net contribution will remain reasonable. However, we have not placed ourselves in the strictest percentage of net contributors. Finland is ready to invest through the EU if policy priorities are balanced and acceptable, and decisions and EU action provide added value and effectiveness. In discussions on fees, it is good to distinguish between a pure contribution and a net contribution. Our membership fee is very likely to increase, because our gross domestic product, fortunately, is now increasing. What our net contribution will be in the future will only be resolved once all the negotiations on regulations and the criteria for the distribution of money have taken place. Our main objective at national level is clear. We want to maximise the EU's return to Finland while we want to keep our net contribution reasonable. We also use the budget to promote leadership for Europe in many areas: peacemaker, forerunner of climate policy, promoter and profiter of science and innovation and producer of sustainable, clean food. In the Commission's proposal last week, the overall level is still too high in relation to our positions. The Commission's proposal makes a positive contribution to security, defence, migration, research and development and the student exchange programme. Administration will be reduced, programmes will be reduced and certain countries will gradually be phased out. This is what Finland has been pushing for. Conditionality linked to the rule of law is also a very important proposal. Defending the European value base with concrete action is the task of every European. A successful European Union can only be built on strong principles of justice. European prosperity and competitiveness will be built by investing in knowledge, innovation and research. This has been addressed in the Commission's proposal. One interesting example is the InvestEU fund proposed by the Commission. This new type of financial instrument could make it possible to support efficient investments with less EU funding, in the form of loans and guarantees instead of grant-based funding. Contributions to strategic projects such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and digital knowledge and skills will support EU growth and competitiveness. From Finland’s point of view, agricultural and regional policy have traditionally played a central role in the budgetary negotiations when we look at our claims from the EU budget, so now. As far as agriculture is concerned, the Commission's proposal was positive in maintaining the existing structure of the two pillars. On this basis, we can build measures that directly support farmers' incomes and, on the other hand, take account of our special circumstances and environmentally friendly measures. The Commission also wants to increase national decision-making powers in the design and decision-making of measures. The overall level of funding proposed by the Commission shows that food production is an important part of the EU's common policy. However, the level of funding includes even difficult priorities for Finland. The Commission proposes cuts to the agricultural budget. These are very difficult for us to accept. We need close cooperation and consultation with the Commission, the Member States and Parliament. We are working hard to achieve the best possible result for Finnish sustainable and clean food production and rural areas. There is also a 5% reduction in regional policy. This is partly explained by the fact that the absolute need for money has decreased as the poorest regions become richer. The Commission also proposes a reform of the financial allocation mechanisms. The distribution based on traditional gross domestic product would move more widely to other distribution keys. Finland has pushed for this change. In addition to these, it is essential for us that the criterion of low population density in the north is also taken into account in the coming period. In addition, Finland considers it important that cohesion funding be used more to support competitiveness and skills in the future. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the work to align the future EU financial frameworks is only at the beginning. The Government has wrapped its sleeves and is ready to negotiate a fair budget for Finland. My own view is that the financial framework will be completed at the earliest during the Finnish Presidency. Mr President! Despite our ideological differences, I believe that the aim of all of us is to ensure the balanced development of European societies and social equality. This is what we are doing in order to avoid confrontation both within and between the Member States. This is what we are doing in order to ensure that Europe is as united and strong as possible to meet the challenge that the rest of the world poses to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u5	Representatives of parliamentary groups will now have the opportunity to speak. — The Central Parliamentary Group, Mr Anttila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u6	Mr President! The EU financial framework must be proportionate to the objectives set by the Union and Finland. Contributions to research, migration management, border control and defence are areas where investment in them brings added value to the Member States. A common objective is a budget that protects, defends and offers new opportunities for all Europeans. Climate change challenges global food production. Own food is the consumer's most important life insurance policy in a world of crises. That is why the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy and research must be adequately funded. There is no room for cuts because they endanger the profitability of agriculture, the quality of environmental protection, the fight against climate change and the production of healthy and safe food for all Europeans. EU funding for agriculture and rural development must be kept at the level required by the objectives set. The financing of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy plays an important role in the balanced development of rural areas in Finland. Rural development funding has played an important role in Finland's net contribution to the payment station as we clearly exceed our contribution. The negotiations must make a strong contribution to securing funding for rural development. Mr President! Cohesion policy plays a key role in promoting job creation, sustainable growth and innovation in the various regions of the Union. The special financing of sparsely populated areas ensures the permanent needs of the special conditions in Eastern and Northern Finland. Other specific features, such as the Baltic Sea, the Arctic and the Russian border area, should also be taken into account in cohesion policy. The Central Parliamentary Group thanks the Prime Minister and the Government Ministers for their active prior engagement in the multiannual financial frameworks and for their timely, good information. We have a lot of work ahead of us to achieve a balanced outcome. This work requires a strong common Finnish vision and co-operation across government-opposition boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u7	Mr President! European cooperation has created prosperity, peace and freedom in an area that has been at war with one another for centuries. As far back as 70 years ago, peace seemed like a distant dream. Today, people, services and the capital required by the growing economy are moving freely in the region. It's never taken for granted. Finland has been involved in the development of the European Union for less than a generation. A small border country can't afford bad ideas. Nationalism, protectionism and authoritarianism may be addictive at the speech level, but in practice they are harmful to people. European cooperation guarantees independence and the ability to flourish in the world, defending our values and freedom. The future is full of possibilities. Finland is a small peripheral country living from international interaction. Our standard of living would be half as low if we didn't participate in the exchange. The EU's internal market is in constant development. We need to be in the process of establishing rules of play that will bring more alternatives to the consumer. Finland has traditionally been a country of closed industries and limited opportunities. The EU gives room to bring the power to the person who belongs to man. We need more options, not less. Mr President! The European Commission's proposal for funding is important in terms of investment in security, defence and migration. The emphasis on innovation and development is in the right direction. EU funding should not focus on how to liquidate the individual nation state as much as possible – to liquidate the benefits to people. A good example is the Erasmus programme, through which more than 250,000 Finns have already participated in various exchange programmes. We need more and more cross-border contacts. Happy Europe Day!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u8	Mr President! In the spirit of Europe Day, the Social Democrats want to develop and reform the Union and make it even better. The EU must be a strong player and, in particular, in an uncertain international context, it is necessary to secure an open world economy and protect human rights. Efforts are needed to combat climate change, manage the EU's external borders, develop defence cooperation, develop development cooperation, such as Africa, education and research. The EU must therefore have an appropriate budget to move forward with agreed objectives and meet common challenges. It is important to us that stability in the EU's neighbourhood is preserved and that the fundamental rights of citizens are protected. The social dimension of the EU must be strengthened and the focus of action must be to promote the well-being of citizens. Due to our northern location, investments in developing transport connections are central to Finland. For example, the Arctic is a project that needs to be taken forward. EU funds should therefore be used for actions that can genuinely generate European added value. It is also in the interests of Finland. President! It is also a matter of budgeting that we can shape a common Union. We support the idea of linking the use of Structural Funds to respect for the rule of law. The formal negotiations on the financial framework are just beginning, but I would like to remind you of the Commission's proposals for own resources. The common corporate tax base, which can at the same time combat tax evasion, or, for example, plastic tax, is an interesting opening. Of course, the negotiations cannot go forward with a jacket open, but the use of EU funds must be transparent and have a high level of control over it. But, President-in-Office, it is above all about what we want to achieve together and how much money we want to put in it. It is true that cake cannot be eaten and saved at the same time, as, unfortunately, the Finnish Government could conclude from the conflicting positions of some ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u9	Mr President! The Commission's gruesome budget proposal would mean an increase of up to EUR 4.5 billion in Finland's contributions. Unfortunately, speeches on education have also been made here in Parliament. They are based on legitimate concerns, for example, about cutting Finnish agricultural subsidies, but blue people feel that agricultural subsidies should be taken care of, and national aid should compensate for any cuts. To obtain hundreds of millions of agricultural subsidies, it is not worth paying the EU up to EUR 4.5 billion. These negotiations are likely to last longer than spring 2019. We therefore believe that, in the next parliamentary elections, it is likely that different parties will have to take a stand on this EU budgetary framework. With reference to what has been said here from the other groups, particularly from the Social Democrats, it must be said that if the demarches have considered the proposal to extend the EU's tax law to be interesting and worthy of consideration, it is an irresponsible view. You have also supported the cyclical adjustment mechanism, which in practice would be a transfer of funds from wealthy EU countries to poorer EU countries. That's what blue people can't accept. Demari is expensive for wallets in Finland, but it becomes even more expensive when the demo goes to Finnish wallets in Europe. Where the EU, there's a socialist. Mr President! The fact is that savings must be made. Cohesion funds have a savings margin. Finland’s intake has been about 30 cents per euro, which has been inserted. This needs to be addressed. There are good things. The EU must invest more in immigration, defence. The blue future is an EU-critical party that is not only talking about a community of values, but also needs practical benefits for the Finnish economy and security, and I believe that the government will have a common view that these results will also be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u10	Mr President! For Finland, the EU is not an absolute value. Finland has joined the Union in order to be involved in free trade, not to pay other people’s debts or to be subject to control by others. This Commission proposal for a budget is absolutely impossible for us. The EU does not even try to fire a similar number of bureaucrats with Brexit, but, on the contrary, wants to expand its activities. The management of immigration and the guarding of borders are important issues, but they already belong to every nation state in principle. They are no excuse for an increase in the Union's budget. Today, the EU is one of those workshops where the Finn always loses. We will pay a large membership fee and we will only get part of it back, and every euro that has been recovered is our own money. This can only change for the worse in the future. This is due to the fact that the Union is becoming poorer countries, to which contributions will be equalised. Our net contribution isn't going down. What is particularly harsh for us is the estimates of major cuts in agricultural subsidies, when they threaten our agriculture. They also threaten our security of supply. The role of the Finnish Government in this matter seems unclear to the ministers themselves. It is not up to Finland to consider how the EU will survive. Finland must pay as little as possible and demand as much back as possible. It's not a promising start. Prime Minister Sipilä has publicly expressed the view that the Commission's proposal would take into account Finland's views, while the leaders of all other net contributor countries have rejected the proposal. Prime Minister, we cannot go with the attitude of Europe. It is not a negotiation to say at the outset that the whole is going to work. This means that we have accepted the increase without any guarantee that there will even be mercy on the details. Mr President! The Finns Party wants a clear change in Finland's EU line. A positive and model student policy simply does not work. In this and other matters, a strict national interest must go ahead. We need a Europe of strong nation states where each country takes care of its own business. Trade can and must be done. We do not need or want any other supranational control or financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u11	Mr President! It is good to think about what the EU budget would look like if it were made clean without the weight of past decades of habit. Agricultural subsidies would hardly be recycled through the EU, but each country would pay for its own agriculture itself, and there would be a common set of rules for playing in the EU. The main focus on the EU budget would be on issues where the EU can actually be more than the sum of its Member States. The EU would spend more money on research, solving future challenges and developing clean technologies. The biggest pot of common money would be spent on mitigating climate change, climate solutions, securing our future. To some extent, the Commission's proposal takes us in this direction. Research funds will be increased, although they still represent only a small part of research funding throughout the EU. In the current budgetary period, every fifth EU euro must be used in a climate-friendly way. The Commission is proposing to increase this share so that in the future, every fourth euro will contribute to climate protection. It is therefore good to demand that the EU money should strike two birds with one stone — for example, so that the development funds for the outermost and poorest regions at the same time help to mitigate climate change. But we must also ban the use of EU money once and for all in projects that promote the use of fossil fuels. Agriculture remains a third of the budget in the Commission proposal. It is important to change the conditions for support for agriculture in such a way that agriculture must also contribute to climate protection and also to biodiversity. In particular, I would like Finland to promote the protection of the Baltic Sea, since agriculture is by far the largest in the Baltic Sea water catchment area, which is almost entirely in the EU region. With EU decision-making, we can also save the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u12	Madam President! Before the last parliamentary elections, the Finns of Finland announced that when they reach the government, the euro will no longer be given to Greece. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group] It took a couple of months for the elections, both the modern Finns and the former Finns who acted under the name of the Blues accepted the Greek Third Package.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u13	Mr President! It is good that the EU financial framework is being discussed in depth here. With Brexit, we have an excellent opportunity to see with new eyes how the budget serves the Union. We all know that these budgetary frameworks will still be hard-wrong. As a result of Brexit, revenue and expenditure must be reassessed. At the same time, it is to be welcomed that Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo have expressed their readiness to increase the EU budget when it comes to good joint tasks that take advantage of Europe and Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u14	Madam President! Finland's recovery from the EU budget has traditionally been good for part of the agricultural and regional development funds, but the Commission is now clearly prepared to cut the most of these, even though the final priorities have not yet been reached. But for Finland, this current proposal necessarily means an increase in the net contribution, both through the increase in the GDP-based membership fee and also through the possible reduction in the low population density and long distance criteria that are important to us in regional policy and, of course, through cuts in agricultural subsidies. Therefore, Finland must be very strict in demanding a loss of weight for the EU, which, above all, reduces bureaucracy and unnecessary regulation and also increases the efficiency of the use of existing funds. Until now, the various policy areas relating to social policy and education have clearly been kept within the competence of the Member States in accordance with the Treaties. However, the Commission's proposal now opens up new avenues, including the 25 billion specific support programme, which starts with support for specific needs such as competitiveness, youth unemployment and the banking union's contingency arrangements. It is clear that each Member State will certainly face difficult and costly and politically difficult structural reforms, but this means that some of them would then be willing to leave the common budget. And it is also quite extraordinary that we should be in a joint budget to support a Member State wishing to enter the euro area in order to meet the criteria. This seems rather perverse to me, and I do not think it supports the fact that a Member State is prepared to join the single currency on its own if it first has to make some sort of effort with the common currency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u15	Thank you. Let us take this opportunity, then, for Mr Terho's reply, not more than 5 minutes, and you, ladies and gentlemen, can reserve replies with the V button all this time, and then start the one-minute debate. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u16	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for this first round. This illustrates precisely the extent of the debate on the budget and the scope of the debate on the financial framework. We already heard 19 quite different visions of how money should be collected and (b) spent. This, of course, is a familiar situation from the point of view of the European Minister who will sit there in the General Affairs Council. Not only is the definition of its own national interest in every Member State, but I believe that everyone is moving from it, working on it and working on it, but the long process then begins as to how the present Commission proposal will then gradually evolve towards a result that the Member States can accept. There has already been a lot of discussion about Finland's objectives and other proposals have been heard here about what they should contain. I'll go over those key points. Finland's unequivocal view is that the Commission's present proposal is too high in overall terms. In other words, Finland will endeavour to bring down this overall level of the financial framework, and I am fully confident that it will come down because all Member States, which are in a net contributor position, will probably agree on this. The process has therefore also been characterised by the fact that, in the past round of the financial framework, the countries that are in the recipient position, as well as Parliament and the Commission, who are then involved in this process, are hoping for a rather high framework. The Member States, on the other hand, who are in a position to pay, hope for a lower level. This will happen again, and in this respect I anticipate that the process will be long. These discussions have been conducted throughout this final period of the European elections. After all, the Commission is seeking to put an end to the process during this European election period, but I consider it a more realistic estimate that it will only end in the next European election period, which means the next parliamentary term in Finland, which is probably the next government to finalise this process for Finland. However, it is important that from the outset we act in a way that is in the national interest of Finland. On the positive side of this Commission proposal, emphasis is placed on these new issues. These priorities are small compared to traditional expenditure, but defence cooperation and its development are Finland's long-term objective, for example. Migration management is absolutely essential, as we have all learned during the migration crisis, and a few other points. When many speakers ask how it is possible to hope for a reasonable framework, or at least for Brexit — in full — and at the same time to take care of these own incomes, it is of course essential that cuts be made to the right targets for Finland and, therefore, from Finland’s point of view, the key factors will continue to receive their funding, such as the northern conditions and the low population density, so that we too can continue to maintain our agricultural and rural development in full. At a more general level, perhaps, of this sense of the process and of what it means, for example, how Finland has said in its Government Programme that it is building up a critical link between national interests and European interests. That is exactly what the negotiations on the financial framework are about. I believe with conviction that a reasonable framework is necessary. There is also a common interest in those circles that are very much in favour of the EU that taxpayers across Europe believe that the value of the money will be paid for, that no one will be unduly charged, that the transfers that take place in the Union will be fair. And if this is not the case, then as Minister following the Brexit negotiations, I also made the point that this was just one of the most important issues, which affected the result of Brexit's vote, that Britain was in a position of constant pay-per-view, and this was highlighted very strongly in the debate on Brexit. So it is very important that we have a Union that is perceived to be just, not only for those who are net contributors, but also for those who are. This is also the guidance of our Government Programme, precisely that Finland's contribution should remain fair and reasonable. A year's work will now begin and the next government will probably still have six months' work to do, and then, possibly, it will be during the Finnish Presidency that this will finally be completed. As I said, I believe that the outcome will be fair and fair, but it will require a very active, expert influence on what Finland will continue to do, both at civil servant level and at political level. However, we are already experienced factors in this after more than 20 EU years. I believe that we will have a better framework than ever before, including for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u17	Thank you. — Then we will enter into a heated debate on the subject and it will be initiated by Mr Satonen, chairman of the large committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u18	Mr President! At least this conversation is necessary. It seems that it will at least relieve various pressures, even though they cannot be regarded as constructive in all respects. But as far as this is concerned, it is good now to distinguish between the things in which we achieve more by doing things together, such as the development of a common defence, the promotion of internal security, the control of external borders, certain environmental issues — these are one dimension — and the second dimension, that is, the debate on what we are paying for and what we are getting, and, of course, in that debate, we also have strong interests in, for example, getting innovation policy forward, because Finland is strong here and VTT is also a big recipient and so away. But of course in that case we will emphasize agriculture and also what's inside it, and I guess there's no such thing as a 60,000-euro ceiling, because that would be a totally counterproductive solution for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u19	Mr President! I would also like to see some new points of view in this debate so that this does not immediately go into the familiar old age, which lists a lot of good expenditure items and then finally says that this should not cost us anything. As far as how the EU gets its own money is concerned, somehow the layman ends up saying that would it not be clear, however, that we should rely on national production and then, on the one hand, on the EU being a customs union, that the EU is getting the money from customs – instead of spending a terrible amount of time and energy inventing various alternative tax-based solutions and others? The national product tells me what the level of well-being is, how much economic activity is, and it is a good indicator in my opinion. The second point concerns the recycling of money. I suspect that the money will not be refined by sending it to Brussels and then, a moment later, returning some of it and focusing on maximising its part. It would be better if we took care of everything we can do, each Member State itself is doing here, and we send as little as possible to breed in a poor position and come back here...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u20	Madam President! We have been going through the problem of Britain leaving the EU and what will happen to the EU financial framework, and yes, I think we must be realistic about the fact that the northern location and the associated regional development have been important for Finland. And yes, it is also important for us that there should continue to be agriculture in this northern country, and since the system is such that money circulates through the EU, of course we are seeking the greatest possible yield to this country. We are well aware that when Finland's gross domestic product has now turned to growth, of course our contribution will also increase in the same proportion, but then we will prioritize where our recovery should also increase. I think that is the right line that the government has taken. With regard to the new openings, I would like to ask again about the Finnish Presidency in the Arctic Council. It is important that the Minister of Transport and Sweden managed to drive the northern railways into the TEN-T network, but what kind of opportunities could the Arctic also have for Finland and for future projects through the financial framework?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u21	Mr President! Anyone who has visited post-communist EU countries will notice that the infrastructure is built there with EU money. This is not the way Finland and Sweden have benefited, because since we became members, we had already developed in this regard. That is why it is extremely important to invest in what Finland as a society here and now needs EU funding: it is cohesion policy, innovation and so on. When it is Europe Day, it is good to have a little game of thought: what would the EU be like if it were to be established today, and vice versa, what would Europe be like if it were not? These are, in fact — even though this is a game of thought — fundamental questions. Finally, I say to Mr Arhinmäki that the fear of the blue is the beginning of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u22	Mr President! Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden said ‘no’ and Finland said ‘yes’. What is wrong with the Finnish Government? Is it so nice for the EU to give money? The EU wants its budget to be independent of the will of the Member States by moving towards a system of EU own resources rather than per Member State's gross national income, whereby, among other things, Member States would directly income from a common EU environmental tax or corporate tax in Brussels. Of course, the EU wants the Member States to have as little influence as possible on how the EU spends its money. It is also very worrying that cohesion funds and values should be linked together, because of course it should not be naive. The Finnish Government should not be naive! There will indeed be political reflection. We have already seen that the EU itself is a club that does not comply with its own rules and initiates infringement proceedings but is not consistent with it, for example, to start with Hungary but to give
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u23	Mr President! A more effective European Union is also in Finland's interest. In order for the EU to be able to function better, it must also be given adequate tools for the financial framework. The Commission's proposal contains a lot of good things. I hope that Finland will strongly support the Commission's proposals to increase contributions to research and development, education and climate action. The UN principles of sustainable development and the Paris climate agreement must guide all decisions. I also welcome the idea of linking the framework and development of the rule of law to financial development negotiations, because common funds must support common values and EU values must be visible and felt in all EU Member States. I also support the Commission's proposal to increase the amount of own resources. I added to this list what has been used to make use of aviation tax and CO2 tax in addition to EU emissions trading and corporate tax and plastic tax. Above all, the elimination of tax evasion is one of the main means of maintaining the Member States'
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u24	Mr President! It has been said here that the EU was set up as a peace project and as a peace project it should continue to be. Against the background of this, it is a little confusing how much it seems to be in favour of the militarisation of the EU, of strengthening the EU's defence, of increasing the amount of money put into arms. In 2012, 1756 billion US dollars were spent on arms, not tens, not hundreds, but nearly 2,000 billion. This money gap should be backed up at global level and the money put into tackling global common challenges, combating climate change, implementing the UN objectives and so on. Security could certainly be more achieved than weapons by building and strengthening civilian crisis management, development cooperation and addressing these global common challenges at global level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u25	Mr President! The multiannual financial framework contains a few very good lines of action. The investment in research and development and innovation is very important and will go a long way if the proposal is implemented. Only by investing in R & D & D can we create comprehensive, long-term, sustainable and gender-friendly prosperity in the EU. I very much hope that this level of funding will be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u26	Mr President! The debate has mainly revolved around how much Finland costs, what we get, but of course it is very interesting how the money that remains in the EU's common treasury will be spent. I am pleased that the emphasis on climate policy has improved, so that in the future a quarter of the Commission's proposal would be used for climate action. It is a higher level than it is today, and it has been supported by other active climate countries. There is also an interesting proposal here regarding that EU membership fee in relation to plastic recycling. In other words, by promoting plastic recycling, a Member State can avoid EU membership fees. There is a positive incentive here, and something like this is certainly needed to promote environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u27	At this stage, two more ministerial speeches will be made, and then the debate will continue. All ministers who want to speak will be given a brief speech, but now Minister Orpo, then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u28	Mr President! First of all, Happy Europe Day. With this budget, the financial framework, we really have the opportunity to develop the European Union and, for Finland and for all Europeans, to think about how we get the most added value by the fact that the European Union works, how the budget best guides its greatest common European added value. But since there is little time, there are three things here. We have new projects which have come up very well here, which are important to us and which we have recognised on a rather broad front as providing us with European added value, and which we should support in the follow-up process — that is, defence, security, research, immigration or, for example, Erasmus student exchanges. Another entity is our old needs, our basic needs, where we must stand up for ourselves. As far as agriculture is concerned, in addition to its overall level, it is absolutely essential that agricultural aid should be granted on the basis of the criteria at the time, and that is where we must work a great deal, not just on the money itself. The third issue is responsible spending, which is important for Finns, Nordics and Northern Europeans. That is something that we must keep strongly on the agenda. Mr President! Finally, with regard to these own resources, the government is actually going on the line outlined here by Mr Heinäluoma, namely that it is a customs union that generates revenue and, in addition to that, it must be a basic funding channel based on GDP. In itself, it would be good for the EU budget to have flexibility, i.e. so-called own resources decoupled, because a lot can happen over a seven-year period. Finally, I am pleased that the proposal now contains ideas and funds to support innovation and structural reforms, because I feel that this is now the Commission's response to the fact that there is no equalisation mechanism for the euro area, that is to say, the Union for the transfer of income, and that is why these two countries have not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u29	Prime Minister, up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u30	Madam President! Mr Lepomäki raised the issue of the internal market and trade policy, and this is particularly highlighted now that Great Britain leaves the Union and we must then apply for a completely different role both as Finland and as good partners. I also welcome the fact that, according to this proposal, the Erasmus programme is now doubling, giving many new opportunities to Finnish young people as well. With regard to transport connections: I agree with Mrs Tuppurainen that we need to have great visions, from Tallinn through the tunnel to Helsinki and from it to the Arctic Ocean and part of the TEN-T network, and then also the EU. From own resources: I would also be very careful to transfer tax law to the EU. For example, the transaction fee of which the agent: Mr Arhinmäki raised the issue, although I consider it dangerous to restrict it to the EU, and now that Great Britain is excluded, these companies will then move outside the EU. With regard to conditionality, I agree with several speakers here, including Mrs Tuppurainen. It was a demand from Finland and I am pleased that it is also included in the Commission proposal. But then this cyclical adjustment mechanism: I would not build an element in the euro area where it would easily create a distribution and transfer mechanism, but instead the EU budget can help the Member States with their structural reforms. Minister Tiilikainen has already answered on climate issues. Representative to Arhinmäki: Yes, the EU as a security community has been a long-term goal for us in Finland and deepening defence cooperation as part of it. Mr Essayah, with regard to cohesion funds: the need for cohesion funds is already reduced by EUR 12 billion under the current rules due to income differentials. Finally, on the EFSI money: It has good experiences in Finland. Minister Tiilikainen can certainly tell us more about them, but, for example, the so-called intermediate financial instruments of companies were now made possible in a completely different way in Finland when this so-called Juncker—Katanen fund was introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u31	Then to the one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u32	Mr President! The rule of law is important in itself, but it is also a sustainable prerequisite for access to funds because if one country's judicial system can be pressured and corrupted, then the EU is not in favour of wasting its money there. So we do not have to moralise, but only for practical reasons to defend taxpayers' money. The Committee on Finance refused the government in the debate on membership fees with two instructions. Firstly, there should be clearer priorities for our own objectives, but secondly, we called for an examination of the possibility of own resources. When action goes beyond national borders and there is a common European interest at stake, that is a reasonable idea. There are good and bad proposals. VATT and Etla have gone through these and put them in order. One proposal was this common consolidated corporate tax base, which the Commission is also proposing. This will of course benefit Member States, but also businesses, so that there will no longer be incentives for aggressive tax planning. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u33	Mr President! That principle of the rule of law is interesting, and when you look at its background from the point of view of the theory of justice, it also includes the legal rules of society. Prime Minister, you said that the government is in favour of this idea. I am sure there are many positive aspects to this, but have you in the government thought, after all, that the Commission, which would possibly initiate this procedure, is a political institution that drives Europe's own internal market values and economy, and in the years to come there may be such things as we do not know now? Can this sometimes turn against Finland so that we create some kind of legislation here, and the Commission would consider it to be an infringement of the rule of law interpreted by the political Commission, and would impose financial sanctions against us? The values of the EU also include democracy, as the Treaty states, and democracy means democracy is being implemented. My question is: have you thought about this in this regard that Finland is sometimes the target, even if we are well,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u34	Madam President! It is probably 86 cents, which is the average EU budget per citizen per day. It doesn't really buy you a cup of coffee, but it's not too much for peace. Many people seem to be approaching the EU budget here, such as men's flasks or women's shoes, that you have to be very smooth but you have to fit in a lot of stuff. That's not exactly how it works. As far as agriculture is concerned, it should be noted that during this parliamentary term it was assumed that the market would operate and manage the financing of agriculture. They have not acted because of Russian sanctions, which is why European agriculture as a whole and Finnish agriculture are in a crisis of profitability. This must now be taken into account and managed in Finland and at EU level in such a way that the financing of agriculture is not cut. The Prime Minister has handled EU policy excellently — Macron is one of his best friends — and this needs to be continued. And European added value is the most important principle now that we are making the EU budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u35	Madam President! The Prime Minister here also raised the issue of Brexit, which has major financial implications for the EU budget. However, we need to take into account a few new aspects of what challenges we will face in the near future. Firstly, the fact that the United States has entered into a kind of trade war and we have very open economic relations with the United States does not know where we will end up sooner or later in this turmoil in trade policy. In addition, we are now in a situation where the EU has different views with the United States in terms of both foreign policy and trade policy. We are in a completely new, serious situation where, among other things, recent events with regard to Iran also affect us. Now companies are already saying that they cannot trade and can become sanctions if they trade. In other words, such challenges also need to be taken seriously in the near future. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u36	Mr President! We are not only Finns but also Europeans, and when we talk about the national interest, sometimes people look at me too narrowly. There are things that we can only achieve at European level. They can be environmental projects, they can be training, research, product development, and they can be peace projects, stabilisation of the Balkans; The stabilisation of the southern Mediterranean. Even if we, as Finland, are self-sustaining, we cannot achieve them alone, and from this European point of view we must also look at this budget where the added value and benefits come from. It would also be very important for the EU to share the common values to which the Prime Minister referred. I think it is quite right that if a country violates the rule of law, fundamental rights, it will also result in measures and penalties. It would be good to hear the government's current thinking on this. We ourselves will be a lot of bearers during the Presidency, because this is certainly an unfinished matter, and it is very important that we are consistent in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u37	Mr President! Of course, increasing or reducing the EU budget cannot be an absolute value, but the size of the budget depends on what is done with the money. For example, there is a need to increase investment in climate change, the fight against unemployment and the promotion of research and innovation. Instead, we do not see fit to use the EU's common funds for the needs of the arms industry. I also question the Prime Minister's statement that defence cooperation and this dimension would have been Finland's long-term objective. It has traditionally been thought that the role of the EU is to be a Union of peace, precisely by promoting peace through trade relations, economic integration and the mobility of citizens, not through defence cooperation, the arms industry or defence research.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u38	Irade the Talman! It is great that this rule of law, the development of democracy, will be taken into account in the future in the EU budget and in the way in which money is distributed across Europe. In this respect, Poland and Hungary have been particularly worrying cases, namely PiS in Poland and Fidesz in Hungary. Of course, Mr Fidesz is also an ally of the Convention at European level, so we must of course hope that the Assembly will make a sound there in the European Parliament. When attempts have been made at European level to organise immigration sensibly, jointly and severally, these same countries have also been problematic in this regard, but unfortunately also Finland, which has not wanted to accept such burden sharing. That is, of course, extremely short-sighted at the moment: in the south the border is leaking, but tomorrow it may be our own eastern border. If we are now going to a common Europe where responsibilities must be shared more widely and free passengers are not allowed in this respect, would it be appropriate for the Finnish Government to consider its own position on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u39	At this point, Mr Myller, one reply. After that, you should take both: Lintilän that Restä's short answers, and then we'll go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u40	Mr President! When we talk about Finland's interests, I think it is in Finland's best interest to be as active as possible as a member of the European Union and that the European Union works as well as possible for the benefit of its citizens. In this case, we are also talking about the fact that the European Union is still a peace project and is working specifically to promote cooperation, stability and security among the peoples. This also requires the European Union's funds to be used to solve the major problems that we must do together. These are climate change, it has come up here, and industrial digitalisation, which affects very differently, as well as climate change, people and regions. Cohesion funds are needed for this, among other things. Similarly, we need this social Europe thinking that we can contribute to development everywhere in Europe and for all people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u41	And at this point, two brief ministerial speeches, Mr Lintilä and Mr Leppä. — Lintilä, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u42	Madam President! In the government's division of labour, cohesion policy belongs to me, and one can say that cohesion funding is, of course, very important for Finland. It looks like it's falling about 7-10%. The positive thing is that cohesion funding will continue in all regions, which is of course significant. I did a fairly comprehensive round before this Commission proposal. I met five different Commissioners and raised the views of Finland on this. After all, the focus must now be on the criteria: what are the criteria for future allocation of cohesion funding? Of course, there is also the need for cohesion funding to be a more modern tool for increasing EU competitiveness. We need reform of cohesion funding. Here, for example, red tape has come up. For the sake of universal acceptability, we need reform for cohesion funding, but at this stage it is completely impossible to say what the Finnish recovery will be in the final game, because these criteria and their content will only be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u43	Minister Leppä, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u44	Madam President! Agriculture and rural development are one of the most closely integrated parts of the European Union. It is therefore essential that Finland’s priority is in these matters and in ensuring their recovery as well. It's absolutely obvious. It is not old-fashioned to eat and it is not old-fashioned to promote a bioeconomy and a circular economy. On the contrary, they will be extremely important in the future. It is therefore essential that we also send a signal to farmers and rural entrepreneurs that the European Union cares about these issues and wants to promote them, while at the same time combating climate change, tackling environmental issues and so on, taking care of European competitive food production. That is extremely important. That is why I find it very difficult and regrettable that, especially for rural development funding, there is such a strong reduction as it has to be made, the freezing of expenditure, which knows a significantly larger part of the reduction than just 5%, which has now been proposed. So in this sense we still have a lot of work to do. President! Finally, it is extremely important to restore the functioning of the food market to what it should be. Now it is not fair and there are unfair trade practices. We need to get them out both in Finland and in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u45	Madam President! A strong and functioning EU is important, and that is why the Greens have been more flexible with the government to compensate for the deficit left by Brexit in the EU budget. Funding cannot be calculated as a zero-sum game, i.e. our payments in relation to recovery. Finland benefits from the EU, for example, through a functioning internal market, not just through direct payments. The EU is also doing a lot of things that cannot be measured in money but which are of great value. For example, what is the cost of an hour of peace in Europe? It is also good to remember the class of measure. The EU budget is about 1% of the gross domestic product of the Member States, and we are talking about what is happening on top of that comma. In 2016, Finland paid EUR 54 per capita to the EU. By comparison: last year, EUR 23 per inhabitant was spent on maintaining the functioning of Parliament with all its expenses. So, in total, well under 100 euros Finnish gets
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u46	Mr President! I think it is important for the European Union to be developed more in cooperation with the Member States than in the construction of bureaucracy. It is an important building principle from this point of view. I would see that the European Union's cooperation should be based on global Europe and towards the Member States in such a way as to build sustainable economic, social and ecological development within the framework of the European Union through cooperation between the Member States. One thing that has not come up very strongly in this debate, I would like to highlight the impact of climate change on refugees, and my assessment, based on various experts, is that this issue will become a much more serious issue within the framework of the European Union. It would now be sensible to strengthen cooperation with Africa. We have 55 billion common development funds in Europe, that is, in the Commission the money of the Member States. It should now be used more efficiently, put on the move. Prime Minister, are you ready to move?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u47	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki, you mentioned that the Finns of Finland were involved in the adoption of the Greek third support package in the summer of 2015, and that is quite true. But, in fact, the aid package money went through the ESM mechanism, so no additional money was granted from Parliament. We know this. But despite that, you are right that the Finns of Peru were initially opposed to it. It was only a month after the election when soini and our other ministers went with Sipilä's whistle. The same whistle sounded also in the autumn when the 2016 budget was made. The budget approved reductions in medical allowances, cuts in housing allowances for pensioners and cuts in student allowance and reductions in employees' terms and conditions, among other things. In addition to this, there was a refugee crisis in August, so it is no wonder that in a very short time, about half of the support of the Finns in Peru was melted away. But now, Arhinmäki, it is necessary to correct the situation to the point that this was then the former True Finns, the modern blues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u50	Mr President! Finland has been profiled in the whole of the 2010s as a spokesperson for the Digital Single Market, and that is a good thing. That is why this new budget has this Digital Europe programme, which has a budget of around EUR 9.2 billion, and its priorities are in fact extremely good for Finland. On the other hand, we must be honest that this digital single market has not progressed in the way it should have. Prime Minister Katainen presented the programme already in 2012, and this has not really progressed since then. If we want the right digital internal market, we need to talk about VAT practices on IPR rights, about harmonising legislation in the digital economy, even digital alvia has not been defined itself. So there's a lot to do. That's why I'd actually ask the minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u51	Madam President! Really, that digital program is important so that we can also get to the pace that has developed in the United States. But the other thing is that the European Union has financed a lot of transport projects, especially in Eastern Central Europe, and so now it is time for Finland. Finland must actively demand funding for our main line so that we can get a TEN core project from it, which will extend to Tornio with additional tracks. Sweden is already active, they will be looking for money specifically for the Stockholm-Haaparanta gap, and the EU's condition is that this is a cross-border project, when it goes in the territory of two kingdoms, and this is where Finland should definitely be active and seeking this money. That is perhaps between 20% and 25% of the total, which is of course a huge sum over the years. I don't know about that tunnel in Tallinn. We had the chairman of the Bundeg Transport Committee, and he said that the Eurotunnel had already gone bankrupt twice and yet there are tens of millions of people on the beach, but there is nothing to prevent us from saying that ‘Ihavedream’, especially something that pays.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u52	Madam President! Speech is convincing when so many refer to it. — I thank Mrs Niikko for her honesty. He said that things were exactly the way I told him. Of course, he forgot to mention that the government button has been on all these surgeries for two and a half years, as well as Mr Niikko and Mr Mäkelä. [ Center: Name changed! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u53	Madam President! We have said here in Finland that internal and external security are linked, and this is also the case for the EU. It is therefore necessary for border control, police Frontex, immigration issues and so on, and for this defence, to bring together common knowledge and common exchange of information. Another area where the EU has been active is, of course, growth and employment. An interesting new idea is this InvestmentEU Fund, which would bring together these social, infrastructure, SMEs and R & D funding elements in a new way. I do not know exactly what it is yet, but I hope that there will be an impact assessment of what kind of projects will then be financed and whether they are sustainable, whether they really and genuinely employ people in different countries. This involves the TEN network, for which I hope that Finland will have more strength, and these should all support the employment and education of young people through this social pillar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u54	Let us take the group speakers who are still here, and then Minister Terho and Prime Minister Sipilä will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u55	Mr President! I think Mr Heinäluoma said quite well — if I understood correctly — that the future and development of the European Union should be based on innovation other than new taxes, and not on trying to push back as much as possible from what has been put in it with such a policy for you—for the rest of the world. I believe that the future of the European Union is firmly built on the development of those joint projects which, on the one hand, benefit all of us as Europeans and, on the other hand, benefit particularly as a Community. These are, of course, security and defence, many of the things that have been raised here. But the value of this market, on the one hand, and its peace and association, on the other, is also incalculable. Here I also agree with Mrs Halmemenpää's assessment. As regards, for example, increasing consumer choice, it is difficult to put the euro value on it, but it has an impossible potential in the future. For example, the fact that we can order wine at home across borders — just as it belongs to the Germans and the French, it also belongs to the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u56	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his very good, moderate speech and his constructive attitude towards the construction of a common Europe. Thank you for that. But the vote at the Council of State changed when the Minister for European Affairs, Sampo Terho, got out loud.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u59	Congressman Anttila is gone, so let's take Mr. Rantakangas from the downtown group, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u60	Mr President! After all, the government's line is the same as that of representative Heinäluoma. Mr Tuppurainen, Mr Heinäluoma made an excellent speech. We have sometimes disagreed on matters, but here I give you full recognition and support, and should also read some homework and give support to your group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u63	Irade the Talman! Europaminister Sampo Terho har betonat att hit inbesparingar i EU-budgeten. Jag tänkte ge ett konkret förslag till inbesparing. I samband med EU-budgetförhandlingarna brode man se till att Europaparlamentets arbete fokuseras till Brussels. I dag pendlar Europaparlamentet från Brussels till Strasbourg tolv gånger per år. Detta till en kostnad av irka 150 million euro per år. Den au resecirchusen betyder också kollixidutsläpp för resor, samt att viktig tid går till spillo. Den au resecircusen kan inte motiveras, i synnerhet inte i tider då det behöver sparas. Jag vill därför fråga minister Terho om han och regeringen kommer att lyfta frågan om single seat för Europaparlamentet i samband med budgetförhandlingarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u64	Mr President! It is not very fruitful for Mr Niiko to answer now, but I will answer it anyway. The Finns wash their hands like Pontius Pilate of all decisions, apparently what they have done in the government. Blues carry their cross with their uprightness. [ Requests for answers from the Group of the Finns Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u65	Mr President! I am a little surprised at what has been said in this Chamber that we should think about the EU before we have a national interest. What do you think will happen when other countries first reflect on their national interests and then on the EU? Another observation from this debate: it is nothing new that the right wants to give up the power of decision on the country's affairs in Europe, but it is new that the left wants a federal state even more than the right, when we look at these practical openings — that it is the right to equalise incomes at European level. Too bad they don't show this on TV. I would like your constituents to hear in good time the views of the Social Democrats in particular that the EU should also tax the Finns, or the Left Alliance, on how much they are against the jobs of the Finnish defence industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u68	And then the last response to this topical debate is Mr Hassi, and then Minister Terho and Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u69	Mr President! Several colleagues, and also the Prime Minister, raised this commitment to the rule of law. I believe that this is a very important issue. After all, the EU requires that the standards of the rule of law, freedom of expression and democracy be met by the countries that are to be members. When drawing up these membership criteria, it has not been thought that a country could join these criteria. The EU's spending criteria make it necessary to address this. Secondly, it is quite an illusion that our economy and our future and well-being are most crucially affected by the EU membership fee and the difference between the membership fee and the money received directly. The impact of the EU on Europe and the world is much greater. For example, there would be no hope of climate protection without active European diplomacy for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u71	Thank you, and then two more ministerial speeches, Mr Terho and Mr Sipilä, for a maximum of two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u72	Mr President! I will answer as many of these different views and questions as I can about what has been said here. One of the most common themes discussed is the EU's own resources and tax law. For the EU's own resources, i.e. the revenue side of the budget, the GDP-based contribution is and will continue to be the most important. The Commission has proposed new own resources, for example in relation to the emissions trading scheme or the amount of non-recyclable plastic packaging waste. These details, and in particular their relevance to Finland's interests, will then be assessed in the future. There is a very clear answer to this: how the Finnish Government and Finland view EU tax law: no tax law for the EU. It's not gonna happen on our watch. This is a question of eternity and a debate that has taken place a great deal in the EU, and it will come back again and again. The Left repeatedly raised the issue of security
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u75	And Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u76	Mr President! First of all, Mr Niikko, I remember that you were in a large committee at the time of the decision on the Greek package.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u79	Thank you to all the speakers. After all, this was a new form of topical debate decided by the Council of Presidents, and I think it went very well for the first time. Thank you all! It is intended that we will continue these topical debates during this spring, either an hour and a half or an hour and a half. While they're waiting. This conversation is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u80	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Audit Committee, to which the other specialised committees shall deliver an opinion by 27 September 2018 at the latest. In this situation, 1 hour will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u81	Madam President! We here in Parliament have an entire autumn debate on the budget, but we have very little discussion about how that year really went. Other communities spend considerably more time evaluating what was actually achieved, what should be learned from it, and therefore the changes that took place when compared with the budget that has been made. Just a few observations from the activity report. Firstly, on deficit and debt-taking. The estimates of budgetary developments in the annual report are a good reflection of the estimates presented during the adoption of last year's budget here in Parliament in December. The budget deficit, i.e. additional debt, was estimated at nearly EUR 6 billion at that time, i.e. at the time of the 2017 budget. The government budget approved by Parliament was EUR 5.6 billion in deficit and EUR 300 million was earmarked for additional budget expenditure. According to the annual accounts published as part of the annual report, the deficit was around EUR 3 billion, i.e. three instead of six. Central government expenditure exceeded revenue by approximately EUR 3.7 billion in 2017. After taking into account the change in cash and the amortization of expenditure, the need for EUR 3 billion in debt is reached in 2017. Thus, approximately half of the additional debt was taken from what we decided when the budget was adopted under Christmas 2016. This is mainly due to Finland’s economic growth and positive employment development. The government has worked for them day and night. We have also been careful about government spending. A few words on employment development, unemployment security expenditure and tax revenue. The improvement in employment was reflected in unemployment security expenditure, which decreased by nearly EUR 200 million. Government spending on economic growth is reflected in an increase in tax revenues. In 2015, the tax revenue received by the state was still under EUR 40 billion, but last year's financial statements show that tax revenue already amounted to over EUR 43 billion. The increase in tax revenues was not the result of a general tightening of taxation. On the contrary, in the government programme we promised to reverse the tax rate. After all, our tax rate has been one of the hardest in the world. The tightening of this last period was one of the most important factors in the failure to meet the employment rate target. Now it's fixed. The tax rate started to decline last year. A debt relationship. The debt ratio was estimated to turn to a slight decline in 2019 when the budget was adopted, but some experts consulted by the Finance Committee considered it too optimistic. General government gross debt was estimated to rise to 66.7 per cent in 2017. The EU Commission also estimates that there is a risk of breaching the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. Implementation according to the Annual Report is that the debt ratio fell for the second consecutive year in 2017. Gross debt was 61.1 per cent, and in 2019 it is estimated to fall well below 60 per cent, to 58.9. Last year, the general government financial balance was only 0.6 per cent of GDP. The employment rate. The government set itself a higher challenge than the balancing of public finances by setting the employment rate target at 72%. The challenge is illustrated by the fact that the Committee on Finance estimates in its 2017 report that the government's employment target of 72% is unlikely to be achieved, as the Ministry of Finance's forecast is that the employment rate will increase to only around 70% by 2020. However, the target is now on the horizon, as the employment rate was already over 71% last month. In the past, the employment target has been a number among numbers — the same 72% target already existed in the previous period. The employment rate then fell from 68.7% to 67.9%. [Central Group : Oh! ] A few things, Mr President, about the state's assets. The section on corporate property in the Annual Report states that the value of all state shareholdings at the end of last year was EUR 33 billion. During this term of government, the value of direct stock exchange holdings has already increased by nearly EUR 7.5 billion. This estimate is from the beginning of this month. Good development is driven by favourable market conditions, well-managed companies and state ownership decisions, including the lowering of minority ownership limits in Neste from 50 % to 33.4%. Last year, a significant ownership steering decision was also announced on the Altia List, which has been implemented this year. The balance sheet of SoteDigi Oy State Development Company Vake Oy was used to activate the balance sheet. The company’s task is to develop national customer and patient information systems solutions in social and health care, which play a key role in achieving the goals set for the social welfare solution. A far-reaching solution for rail transport was to open up rail passenger transport to competition. In practice, VR's exclusive operating rights on the Finnish networks will be abolished in the next decade. Competition will improve rail transport services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u82	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u83	Madam President! So much from this annual report that we must remember that the economic direction has changed. The big job the government has done, as the Prime Minister quite rightly said, the government has got its hands on it, said that everything was wrong and that everything would have gone wrong. But if this had happened, this story would hardly have been like this. As the Prime Minister said, some EUR 6 billion in debt was set aside and only half of it came true. So we're heading the right way. And we must remember that, for example, tax policy and industrial policy are our own, the things behind our own decisions, the government's proposals that are adopted in this House. In this debate too much attention has been paid to the fact that someone else has helped us. Yes, we must have a national policy that keeps the economy in order and does not increase our debt, and, as the Prime Minister said, the end of debt is on the horizon and we will soon be able to start paying back our debts. Then there is the point that, when we are part of the European Union, we must, of course, be active there and make a policy with our partners so that we can sell our goods there on the market. Of course, the market is governed by market laws, which cannot be affected very much by politics, but by being actively involved in the international community, we will certainly make ourselves a good image in the eyes of others. And as far as European policy, our economy and 2017 are concerned, it should be borne in mind that Finland's position in the EU has always been that we do not commit to any new responsibilities in the EU, but that we keep what we have had so far, and that we are making every effort to make progress in trade policy and international cooperation, because it benefits Finland. Finally, Mr President, if you look at the Finnish economy at the moment, all the big figures show that we are going for the better. When you listen to these speeches in this Chamber, you sometimes wonder if I am in the right Parliament when you feel that things are going wrong, even though the economic figures show that things are going in the right direction. I would like to see a slightly more constructive approach from the opposition, even if this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u84	Mr President, Fru talman! Yes, we are all very happy that the change has finally taken place in Finland's employment and economy. Let us be thankful for that. – I myself would like to talk about the great reform of our time, which affects the lives of all Finns and also significantly affects Finnish society, that is, this paragraph 2.7 Regional and social reform. In this Annual Report, the Government notes that ‘the reform aims to achieve a large part of the sustainability deficit of public finances’. Well, at this point in time, nobody talks much about this savings target, and there is a very broad consensus among experts that this reform is not bringing any efficiency or savings to the economy, but, on the contrary, that this reform involves significant cost-increasing elements. Only the scale of cost growth is open. We do not know whether it is EUR 1 billion per year, EUR 2 billion per year or even more. The Government has chosen a model for regional and social reform that seems to increase costs significantly in many sectors. Availability of services increases costs, support services increase costs, ict solutions increase costs, wage harmonisation increases costs, space solutions increase costs. Mr President! Indeed, the government is now preparing a model with many elements which, in a very fatal way, will increase the cost of social and health care compared to our current model. That is why we need to look at the quality of our current model. And when we look at OECD studies, long time series, Finland’s health services are of very high quality and efficient. If I take, for example, four key indicators of life expectancy: from 1960 until these days, the increase in the life expectancy of OECD citizens has been monitored, and in Finland it has increased by 12.6 years in this period, compared with 11.9 years in OECD countries and 8.7 years in other Nordic countries. In all OECD quality indicators Finland is doing better in health care than the OECD countries on average, and on several indicators we are at the top of ten. For example, in cancer mortality: Finland has the second lowest cancer mortality rate in the OECD countries and the lowest in the EU countries. And from 195 countries' data when measured with 30 quality meters, Finland is the seventh. All these existing facts, comparisons with 195 other countries, other OECD countries and EU countries, show that our current social and health care system is of high quality and more efficient, i.e. we are doing better with less financial input, and that is why it is important to have a debate on the fact that the biggest reform of our time, launched by the government and extensively discussed by the government in this annual report, contains a lot of elements that are likely to increase costs. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise one point relating to this regional and social reform. In the context of the budgetary plan, the Government made a very exceptional statement in which the Government stated that if it appears during this year that there are cost-raising elements in the social security reform, the Government will record these expenditures in the spring 2019 budgetary plan. Prime Minister, all these facts are at our disposal: the municipal employer has announced to the public that wage harmonisation will significantly increase costs, up to EUR 1 billion per year, and we are also aware of these other increases in costs. The question is: why has the government not wanted to include these in the budgetary plan? This would be necessary if we are to have the right idea of what the state of public finances and our sustainability deficit are at the moment. In response, it is not enough that this is difficult to assess, or that decisions have not yet been finally taken, because the government has been able to record in this budgetary plan the EUR 1 billion losses which have not yet been decided upon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u85	Madam President! In fact, it came to mind from this previous speech, in which I was very gratefully touched on the subject of social cohesion, that I too am a little surprised at this situation. I myself am a member of the Committee on Finance, where we hear experts from this very cost perspective. I have never seen such a situation before that we are doing a huge reform of the century and there are no proper cost estimates at all. On the contrary, it does indeed seem that the savings targets are not being achieved, that it can be quite the opposite. In consultation with experts, Parliament will be asked whether you can now estimate at least a billion fork, how much of this or this will cost. I do not think that, as I said last time, an elephant should be bought in a bag. It is worrying that we are in the process of a reform which, in terms of content, may seem to increase inequality, which is quite the opposite of what we wanted, and even so that we are not at all on the map of the costs that can be caused by all this socialism. The situation in Parliament, Prime Minister, is very worrying, very worrying. Secondly, as I looked at these government performances in this book, came to mind this in itself good thing that the economy is growing and this kind of appeal from the world and others have blown the wind into our economy, and so on. That's good. But that is the problem, Prime Minister, just as we have said here many times, that now that the economy is growing, that is how it should be for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u90	Mr President! Yes, these increases in the guarantee pension — three times the government has decided — raise the guarantee pension
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u101	Madam President! This has covered the state of central government finances and the various administrative sectors of last year, and, for example, the growth in GDP, which was already close to 3 per cent last year, is considerably more than it was able to estimate, for example, three years ago when the government started operating. It is also important to note, of course, that the local government finances, for example, have been strengthened very significantly, and even this report states that the local government finances are in balance for the first time in a long time, and that, if anything, is of course terribly important for the ordinary public services of people. Well, of course, there is criticism here from the opposition, despite the fact that economic development is improving and employment is also moving in the right direction. Last year there have been more than 300,000 fewer job seekers, more than 90,000 people have been employed. Surely these are facts that may be difficult to swallow on the opposition side, but you have been very categorically barking up almost all the actions that the government has put forward. Of course, you can ask whether policy is of the greatest importance to these activities. Of course we are glad that Finland has caught up with the growth of the global economy, but what perplexes me in particular is that the world economy grew already during the previous parliamentary term, but then Finland was unable to catch up with that economic growth. I think it is very important that improvements have been made to basic security because, unfortunately, these improvements have led to expectations as a result of the previous parliamentary term, for example, when the minimum daily allowance level was not revised. Of course, a significant improvement was made on unemployment benefit, EUR 100, but the lowest sickness and parental allowance was left behind, and the government is now making a correction to that too. When, for example, there were criticisms of the guarantee pension, it is, of course, a pity that the indexes have not been binding, but the decisions the government has taken to improve the guarantee pension will add EUR 22 to the clean hand more money than would have come through the indexes. Of course, it is important to take into account that, as employment increases, unemployment decreases, and that is why, according to the very basic logic, we will of course be able to channel more good things. Yes, the next parliament and the next government have a much better starting point for making investments and building this country than they had for this government. Not many people would have believed that such good results would be achieved at this stage, and this has been recognised by so many officials as well as by scientists. Few people believed in these measures, but the line has been correct in that they are now producing results, as you can read in this annual report. After all, it must be a shame to swallow when, for three years, the opposition has been criticising all the measures in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u102	Mr President! It is true that the financial crisis in 2008 hit us very hard, and at that time, under Matti Vanhanen's second government, all economic indicators actually turned down. The fall in the national product was dramatic, the biggest drop since the early 1990s, was probably 10 per cent of what the national product came down at once. And when 2007 was in a situation where Vanhanen's first government could still leave a surplus of more than 3 billion shown, then there was a significant deficit in the books and indebtedness turned to a dramatic rise, which was the situation when the government started in 2011 and which then continued despite austerity and balance measures in 2015. When Nordea's Chief Economist Aki Kangasharju said there was a good year, less than two years ago, that Finland is a lost case, that it is no longer worth investing in or doing anything — that is, it was his way of thinking — when nothing can and nothing happens here, I have to say that this is how the lost case is alive, and now even some of them are already excited to declare it a winning case. However, I suspect that this is not the case, and why I suspect that is not the case is due to this sustainability gap. The sustainability gap, i.e. the problem of public finances over the longer term, to respond to changes in the age structure of the population, is real. It's been out there. We have many parliamentary periods and many governments have taken different measures. Of course, the most important measure is to increase the employment rate, it is the most important one, but then there will also be measures to improve public finances. When the current government set a target of 10 billion, 3 billion of these expenditures concerned social welfare and health care. That was not an estimate of how much money a social welfare reform can save, but of the objective that so much should be saved. And now that we are in a timely decision-making process following this government's activity report and the debate on social welfare reform will continue in the committees and in a moment in the big room, there is cause for great concern. All the information that has come to Parliament over the last few weeks tells us that this savings of 3 billion is not going to be achieved — is not going to be achieved. I have not yet met any experts who would say that there will be significant savings in this mess. It can be said that the very clear message from the experts is that, at best, more expenditure will be coming in the next few years. In other words, with regard to the next parliamentary term, we are in a situation where this social welfare reform is about to cause an increase in expenditure, and unfortunately it is as Mrs Feldt-Ranta pointed out earlier and Mrs Viitanen also said that these have not been properly evaluated either in the functioning of the government or in the presentations that have come here. We have very little information on the content of the social welfare reform. One of the pilot areas, Hämeenlinna: Today we have heard that there is an increase in health care expenditure when we try this government model in a mild form, 14% — 14%. This should be stopped by the government, so that one hand will not be spared when these cuts, to which Mr Viitanen referred, have been carried out, but the other hand will be made of models that often take away the money that has been saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u103	Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u104	Mr President! Firstly, this sustainability gap. The estimate made by the previous government in the middle of the parliamentary term was EUR 9 billion, and a plan of measures was put in place that did not lead to anything. When this government started, we estimated that it had increased by EUR 1 billion, or EUR 10 billion. In the spending limits debate, we went through very carefully what we have achieved to overcome that sustainability gap: the savings of EUR 4 billion are going directly into the 10 billion. 2 billion were earmarked for growth, and we have done well what was built on its growth. Then the so-called billion-dollar public finances, of which the Ministry of Finance's estimate was 940 million realised. So we have now made about 7 billion out of that 10 billion. We still have this 3 billion share of the social welfare reform. If we look at what happened last year, when we are still making the budget, we estimate that there will be 6 billion more debt, now it will be 3 billion. For one year, we made this kind of change. Now, if we were to have this huge amount of energy used to combat social reform, as in the spirit of the recent EU debate, for implementation, we will certainly be able to achieve the savings of EUR 3 billion in it. Congressman Feldt-Ranta brought up the sote-ict. That is a good example. We have hundreds of different information systems in our current health system. Now we are building an equally compatible arrangement that various hospital systems can join. We have also invested EUR 90 million in it in advance — despite this difficult economic situation — and have taken advantage of the good growth we have had in the state's assets. I understand that it is terribly difficult to admit that it will be possible to achieve this, but perhaps it would provide a better basis if we admit that so far we have been able to achieve and now we can move forward by doing that social reform properly. As the International Expert Group well estimates, this provides a good basis. It is all about implementation in the end, and now we should do the same thing that is already very advanced in many regions, namely the practical implementation of social welfare reform. In some regions social welfare and health care
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u105	I'm going to open a debatation here. It looks like there's a need for it. Representatives may ask for 1 minute of speaking time by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u106	Mr President! As I said earlier in my speech, we will all be glad that the economic and employment situation in Finland is better. In exactly the same way we all certainly want to have such a social welfare reform that is good for this country and for this people. But, Prime Minister, you have no reason to teach us like little schoolchildren about the cost of the war. We sit here in the parliamentary committees all day listening to experts, as you time and again withdraw behind an international group of experts who have assured you last year that these savings will come true. We listen here daily to Finnish top experts, all Finnish social welfare professors, experts, representatives of municipalities, representatives of organisations and business representatives. We have not met any experts who would believe that these cost savings would be realised. On the contrary, all the information that Parliament has available, all the information that is in public, all the calculations that have been presented to us, tell us about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u107	Mr President! Prime Minister, it is great that this government has been able to sail in a favourable economic climate and has in practice led to the fact that, once the European Central Bank has made a good monetary policy easier and the global economy has improved, it has reached a situation where the employment situation that began in the autumn of 2015 and the economic recovery that started in the spring of 2015 have been strengthened, and I am very pleased that this has happened in this way. Everyone in this room is. But, Prime Minister, I do not understand how your spending cuts of EUR 4 billion, which have affected the most vulnerable people in this society, the unemployed, families with children, students and pensioners, have improved the state of the economy, namely the state of employment and the state of economic growth. At the same time, you have given EUR 2.5 billion in tax reductions to mainly the richest Finns, the wealthiest Finns, well-off Finns. Forest gift reduction,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u108	Madam President! Indeed, experts have been consulted in the committees, and in the Committee on Finance, for example, the best experts in Finland have been consulted on these costs. Here To the good response of Sipilä, I will only complete what has now been somewhat overshadowed by the opposition, that there are two kinds of costs: one-off costs, and there are permanent costs. And it is quite clear that when a big change is made, there will be one-off high costs, such as those relating to these information systems and their harmonisation and better access to information. Once they are in order, then it is realistic to expect something to come out of it. No one will deny that there are uncertainties, even risks, about every major project. In the case of mergers, few of them are successful in the way they are thought to be, but then corrective measures are taken and moved closer to the target. In many cases, high risk
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u109	Madam President! Yes, I think you, Prime Minister, are looking through some pretty rosy glasses now with regard to the war. This is an entirely similar situation to what Mrs Feldt-Ranta has just described in the various committees. And, indeed, on the basis of the hearings of the Committee on Finance, for example, I could say that time must be a magician if you imagine that this would not be considerably higher costs than we have thought, and as far as this intended 3 billion long-term cost reduction objective is concerned, I have not seen the magician who says that this will happen. On the contrary — really, Prime Minister — it can happen, and a considerable minus mark can be there in the face of the total cost of this mess. It even comes to mind that it is possible to make a credible opinion on the Committee on Budgets at all, when these cost estimates are simply not sufficient. President!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u110	Madam President! It is worth remembering the old truth that Mr Outi Ojala once said here that strong state finances are the best friend of the poor, and this is otherwise the case. In the same way, during this parliamentary term, the municipal economy has also begun to grow strongly. As I recall at the moment, there are only three crisis groups. You might want to remember these facts before you start blaming others. As far as this support policy of the European Central Bank is concerned, which Mr Rinne has often suggested that the ECB has done good with its support policy, the European Central Bank has bought junk loans on the market, if I remember correctly, since 2010, or was it even 2012 years before these days, that is to say, the comparison that this has come from there is not true. Then, when many times you shout there, representatives of Rinne and Heinäluoma and partners, about having poor pensioners, where do the pensions of the poor come from? In time, when you were labour market politicians, you made sure there were small wages. Small wages are going to be a very small pension. You're here to take care of your little conscience when you once took care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u111	Mr President! Of last season's history, I would be a little more merciful to the previous government about its sustainability deficit than the current Prime Minister Sipilä in his own statement. However, when I followed the matter from the President's seat and was not in government and not responsible for matters, I have to say that the previous Stubb and Katainen government did a lot on the sustainability gap here on the side of spending savings, but also by taking care of the income base and also did a very important pension reform, one...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u114	Mr President! It has been interesting in the Committee on Finance to see how this government story has changed. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance originally said that these social costs have recently exploded so that we now have to make savings. Now that we have had experts to tell us that freedom of choice entails a significant increase in costs, the story is that, fortunately, the cost of social services is growing so moderately that these growing costs can be affordable. The story has turned completely upside down, and it does surprise me. When Mr Kiuru said that the scale of these costs, one-off and permanent costs, is large, this is the most precise definition the government has been able to do so far. You will not even be able to tell to the accuracy of a billion dollars what these costs of change are and what the permanent costs are. This certainly does not give us the right to make a responsible decision. We are constantly hearing the best experts who say that this and this will cost a billion dollars, this will entail an additional cost of 2 billion, and when we ask the VM what their answer will be,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u115	Madam President! This cost control was thought to be achieved through integration. As the Prime Minister has already pointed out here, we have good experience of the models in which they are now made in the form of joint municipal authorities, which will then have to be dissolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u120	Mr President! The Prime Minister pointed out that in the provinces the work will be done to make this economically sustainable. But when I happen to sit as chairman of the provincial government and drag the monitoring team with which this reform is being carried forward, I have to say that it does seem like an impossible job for these bodies. At the end of the day, when we are always hearing about the additional costs that come more from this side of society, and when we have a whole budget that should finance both the social side and the growth service side, I will just ask what will remain in the growth services after that. Is it not essential, from the point of view of our overall long-term survival, that our growth-supporting services work in such a way that employment develops well and that we get better tools to tackle structural unemployment in particular? From the point of view of the dismantling of structural unemployment in particular, this package seems extremely worrying because no expert in the committees has yet been able to say how to purchase a common service here as a whole, which we can at least do at the moment, in connection with the integration of social and health services and labour policies aimed at structural unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u121	That was the last speech on the part of the debate. Would the Prime Minister like to respond? — Prime Minister, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u122	Mr President! The conclusion from this debate is that the opposition believes that EUR 7 billion of the EUR 10 billion sustainability deficit has now been implemented, right?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u127	I think there's still a need for a little debatable here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u128	Mr President! I would like to say, Prime Minister, that you have cut spending by EUR 4 billion. These expenditure cuts are backed up by unemployed persons, families with children, pensioners and education in large volumes. You have weakened the future of these people and education by cutting these people's livelihoods, including the unemployed. What have you done in return? In particular, you have reduced the tax burden on wealthy and well-off people with good income by EUR 2.5 billion, of which 1.5 billion are based on decision-making criteria, to an end. This has led to a budgetary adjustment of only 1.5 billion and not 4 billion for you. That this is about the sustainability gap debate. Then I would like to say to that active model that I find it scandalous that you are saying here that an active model that cuts off a person trying to access services or work, 5% of unemployment benefit...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u129	Prime Minister Sipilä, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u130	Mr Rinne, in my presentation you probably missed out on the fact that tax revenue increased by EUR 3 billion compared to the 2015 tax revenue, despite the fact that we have reduced tax levels. It is also one of the key elements in re-reliance on Finland, Finland is an interesting country, Finland is worth having work done, Finland is worth investing in. They are at the heart of this good development in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u131	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, I was talking about a decision-based tax base cut. You have cut the tax base on a decision-making basis by EUR 1.5 billion. As far as the cyclical aspect is concerned, it is not part of this debate on the sustainability gap. You've cut spending by $4 billion. By your actions, the tax revenue has been reduced by 1.5 billion. It affects this budgetary balance and is therefore no better than it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u132	Madam President! When Finland’s economy collapsed in 2008 with the financial crisis, it was not the government’s fault, it came from the outside. And in the same way, now that the ECB has really strongly revived the economy, it has also led the Finnish economy to its end. But what has Finland done according to economic experts? The government has certainly been praised for not having succeeded in making this appeal to the European economy, to the international economy, but what is essential is that your economic policy has been to cut low incomes and to distribute tax reductions to those on good income. Yes, Prime Minister, you must understand that the fact that tax revenues are increasing is one thing when the economy is growing, and that tax cuts are being distributed in addition to that. Madam President! The fact that the active model has yet to be praised, even though it has been seen as a passive model that cuts even the cancer-stricken unemployed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u133	Mr President! Tax policy: If there are correctly measured and correctly targeted tax solutions, they are likely to contribute to economic growth, to employment development. These reductions in government income tax have been weighted on low and middle incomes and have been one of the important factors in making it more profitable for people to work, to do more work in which the economy grows, to create jobs. This is how it works. Business taxation has also been slightly reduced, and other tax solutions have also been introduced, such as wood, to push exports. This is a big whole, where everything has to do with everything. If you have that idea, as it seems to be, that by tax tightening the state finances are improving, it has been tested. Last time, as I recall, the overall tax rate rose, but it was only likely to congeal Finland's economic growth and employment. And I am afraid that you will soon have new tax proposals that will increase the tax burden on SMEs, but let us see now — a programme is about to come. We look forward to it with excitement, but do not do such a programme, which will put an end to this good economic and employment development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u134	Mr President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his words that he agreed with me that the decision-makers deserve answers to these appropriate questions relating to the assessment of the cost of social protection at this stage of change and then in the longer term. Now it is quite clear that when it comes to such a huge reform, no exacts and precise figures can be given, but we have not even been presented with scenarios, not even ranges, not even any estimates of where it might be, even to the nearest one billion. Now the question is, when the Ministry of Finance says that it will be preparing more detailed calculations for autumn: do you think, Prime Minister, that we should do with this information, or, in other words, ignorance, with such a far-reaching decision, that this billion-dollar crater will be fulfilled, or can we afford to expect the Ministry of Finance to get its own work done and do some sort of sustainable, even direction-based assessments when we have asked for them three or four times, and we will be able to make a decision in peace, without haste and proper?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u135	Mr President! It is a little sad that we do not want to acknowledge that the economy is growing, and then we even appeal to the old — Mr Heinäluoma mentioned the Aho government, so far into history. It is worth remembering, however, the origins of the Aho government, why it was such a huge problem. You will remember that the previous government was blue-red. That's when the demars were there to run the finance minister's briefcase. Erkki Liikanen was first, and then Matti Louekoski, as I remember, went on. I remember when the latter Minister for Finance was asked whether you would have gone to this task if you had known what state finances were in, the answer was clear. Anyway, it was time for your ministers to... — I apologise, Mr Viinanen was Minister of Finance. But yet the minister in question said... [Heckling — Laughing]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u136	There are still calls for debate, but there are speeches on the list of speakers and we have a limited time for discussion here, so I suggest that we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u137	Mr President! I am really surprised at this embryo debate in that regard, if we go so far as to think that an active model can be supported when it comes to the cause of the poor. It's a very brutal game, isn't it? In fact, this active model is such a stone in a bun, I saw, using Minister Lindström's words, that a really small poor person — who is already in difficulty, has lost his job, has little money, is looking for work, is really worried about tomorrow — is being punished for cutting unemployment benefit. This is a very far-fetched proposal of misery, and I would not have wanted to see this from this government. Yes, I say that these measures, which have recently been taken, for example, to increase the insecurity of working life — have been an active model, unemployment benefit cuts, forced threats, holiday payments cuts, and now, unfortunately, this proposal to discriminate against young people for unjustified increases in temporary work — reminds me of the days of work reform. When the past was remembered here, Anneli Jäätteenmäki said in time that she would bury it in the depth of the Atlantic and never return to it again, but Minister Sipilä, you may have now dived into its work reform from there, and the spirits of this kind, which in that paper were, yes, very strongly appear above this house and this hall today. This brings to mind the very fact that I was pleased that, fortunately, the young people in the centre saw this decline in working life for young people and made a statement that the people in the centre should not, once and for all, defend these discriminatory proposals in this Chamber. This is what the young people in the centre said and reminded them, for example, of the decisions taken by the national council in the centre: the council reminded them of the need to ensure equality in the labour market. I think there was an embryo spirit here. Listen to the kids downtown. Listen to the Alliance, for example. You'd think Mr. Kaikkonen would listen very carefully to the Alliance. After all, he has been chairman of the Alliance himself, so I believe that he is familiar with the Alliance, and that is why it is worth listening to the voice of the young people themselves, how they experience such performances, what the government has. But all the same, here we go, Mr President, and in relation to what I began to do, I would really like this book to have more of that embryon spirit and voice inside it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u138	Mr President! Last year we had a lot of transport issues, and one big piece of legislation was the law on transport services, which was before us last year. Well, here, on page 86 of the Government's Annual Report, these concerns, which are expressed by the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Government has then given its answers, relate to the black economy. As the committee has been concerned about the increase in the shadow economy with the reduction of permit regulation, the Government will then give a response that the Finnish Transport Safety Agency will now be preparing for these new licensing and control tasks on 1 July 2018. But we have heard experts swear with their hearts that they cannot, Trafi is unable to control the grey economy that could take place in taxi services, for example. In other words, this cannot be controlled, and this is an incomprehensible situation, how much money is being poured outside the tax office when this government has given these loopholes to the black economy. And yet, President-in-Office, there is also the fact that it has only recently become apparent that the current legal business, to put it bluntly, is turning into a criminal organisation on 1 July 2018, that is to say, the existing taxi ordering centres become illegal by decision of the government. There is no guidance from the Ministry for taxi entrepreneurs who own these brokerage centres, and this is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u139	Mr President! However, although the Prime Minister has left, I would like to express my thanks to him this time, exceptionally, that he himself was presenting this report on the government's activities and also defending the government's line of action. That tells us that the Prime Minister is proud of his own government and its work. That is what the Prime Minister should do if he is to achieve results. After that, however, as far as this economic policy is concerned, it is true that it is now, as virtually all economists have said, that we still have a happy economic situation for some time now that the international economy, the European economy and the European Central Bank are so strongly supporting our growth and creating demand for our products that it now favours us. The danger then arises from the fact that we have a very high probability that this international economic cycle will not go on indefinitely, of course, and the moment may be quite near when these readings will turn down. Then we come back to this question by Nordea's chief economist, Aki Kangasharju, that what is being done here and what is being done and how the public finances work under these circumstances. Then we come to this legacy for the next parliamentary term. As Mr Rinne has rightly pointed out here, there are decision-making issues that affect growth, employment, tax revenue, and then there are those that business, people's activity produces. However, the most important decision-making issue in this parliamentary term will be this social reform if decisions are taken on it during this year. The key then is whether this reform is feasible with the knowledge we currently have, whether it will support better health care and, at the same time, deliver these desired savings on public finances and thus reduce the sustainability gap. That is the overwhelming issue that Parliament will decide on during this parliamentary term. Growth is already behind many corners, and it cannot be written in the passages, but this social welfare reform can be written in the passages, and it will be done in the way it has been decided here. I must say that the message that has come from experts over the last few weeks is now genuinely cold. This looks much worse than I thought about this social reform before this expert consultation was launched here. Unfortunately, when the Prime Minister spoke here with the same basic message and rhetoric that the government chose from that spending limits bar that it was a question of implementation, if solutions are made so that these benefits cannot be achieved, because this integration between basic and special care will be dismantled, we will go to the subscriber-producer models, then there will be no such benefits. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u140	Madam President! When the 2008 financial crisis hit the European economy and especially the Finnish economy — the Finnish economy, GDP, went down harder than in any other European country, it was the biggest drop of all time in one year, compared with the individual years of the recession of the 1990s — then the Prime Minister’s party was the centre, the finance minister’s party was a coalition. Now the European economy is growing, the European Central Bank has revived the economy at low interest rates by pumping money into the market, which has benefited Finnish exports, created jobs, created growth. If we now believe that this growth in the European economy is thanks to the government, then logically we must also believe that this collapse of the financial crisis, which we continue to fill, has been the fault of the Prime Minister's Party centre and the Finance Minister's Party's coalition. If this is not the case, then it must also be acknowledged that the majority of this growth is an international attraction. What has been the policy of the government, Madam President? When the government started, oversized cuts were justified by the fact that the economy is in bad shape. Those cuts have been made by the government up to the comma. Cut from unemployed people, cut from pensioners, cut from students, education, families with children, sick people. These have been carried out. And the counterpart is the tax reductions of EUR 1.5 billion, or EUR 1500 million, which are particularly targeted at the well-earned. [AnttiRinteen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u141	Mr President! Thank you all for having spoken very comprehensively on such a broad point about this great picture of our economy and then about these problems of the Sipilä Government. For Finns, the fight against sovereign debt is still the top priority, whether it was through economic discipline or through the use of a stimulus policy. Personally, I hope that there will also be a golden middle road which the parties can achieve together by reflecting on these issues. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the range of means we have to make Finland's exports grow. When we don't have our own currency and we can't do currency devaluation, then the then Sipilä and Basic Finns' government, that is, at the beginning of the government devaluation, quite classically went for the increase in exports through internal devaluation. The competitiveness agreement was concluded, the economic impact of which on exports is difficult to assess, but at least the experts have assured me that they are indisputable. The problem with that was the unequal end result in some respects, and that is the moral problem that is being repeated in these opposition speeches, and that is quite clear and a matter to be discussed. I think Mr Arhinmäki said that, despite these good economic conditions, the government has not succeeded in making a mess of Finland’s affairs — at least someone in that speech used that word well earlier. I agree that there is, however, a good euro-dollar exchange rate ratio, and this economic relationship is the one that is causing the Finnish economy to rise so much now that it is difficult to assess how Finland’s internal devaluation has actually been successful – even if, on the other hand, does it matter if the end wind is good? On the other hand, you can also evaluate the good end result. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, instead of its internal devaluation, rather than cutting off workers, as is the classic idea of this kind of internal devaluation, other competitive factors would be strengthened: education, skills, the business environment. The workers also need the carrot more, that is to say the dismantling of their incentive traps, and then the companies want bureaucracy to be dismantled, and this Sipilä government, although it is glowing, has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u142	Madam President! To Mr Tavio, this government must have taken out more red tape than any other previous government. More than 300 standards have already been dismantled. In that regard, Mr Tavio is quite right that red tape is being dismantled. You're absolutely right. We're in the middle of dismantling the Bureaucracy, but we'll keep it going. The measures taken to facilitate construction and planning, for example, are wise decisions. There has been a division of power back to the municipalities. Municipalities have much more autonomy in deciding matters, and the right to appeal has been reduced. After all, construction is crucial in many areas, for example, when companies are located in regions. This is an extremely important issue for the national economy. By the way, I have just checked the Internet so that I say it correctly in the Minutes that there will be no misinformation: when the Aho government started, Erkki Liikanen was the Minister of Finance. Then, when he left for the European Union as ambassador, Matti Louekoski took over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u145	In accordance with the timetable agreed by the Council of Presidents, this debate and the proceedings are now suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u146	We shall now resume the debate on the fourth item which was suspended earlier in this sitting. In other words, the debate will continue and there will be the first speech, Mr Heinäluoma. Congressman Heinäluoma is gone. Congressman Myllykoski is gone. The conversation is the end of the... Well, then, Mr Ala-Nissilä's finger had time to press. We will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u147	Thank you, Mr President! I myself was unable to participate in this debate because of the second opportunity. I just want to say the good thing the Prime Minister said that we here in Parliament are talking about the budget for six months and we are dealing with it, but when it comes to the state accounts, the annual report, a very good and well-developed report, it does not want to be discussed. Today it was because of the Prime Minister's opening, and it was good to look at last year and its achievements, so I think this would be a practice that should be strengthened in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u148	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion. One hour is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item in the order of business is the sixth item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u149	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal proposes to amend the Act on Public Employment and Business Services and the Act on Unemployment Security. In addition, amendments would be made to a few other laws, but these amendments are of a technical nature. The proposed amendments are intended to contribute to the preparation of the reform of the regional and growth services sector and thus reflect, as far as possible, the legislation on regional development and growth services intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2020, which is currently under consideration by Parliament. The question has already been raised in advance as to why this proposal is being submitted in a situation where the draft Growth Services Act is pending in Parliament. This proposal is important because it has become clear that the transition to growth services should be supported, as far as possible, even before the entry into force of the regional and growth service reform. The changes presented here will contribute to the diversification of the service structure and the emergence of new service packages. The proposed changes will also support the administration in strengthening procurement skills and allow for a gradual and controlled transition to new operating models. In addition, the projects made possible by the change will contribute to ensuring the availability of the service in the event of a transition. The interim model must reconcile the current and future system. Part of the solution to the future system was still open at the beginning of the year. The progress of the growth services legislation has made it possible to assess the need for transitional arrangements. These proposed changes are of an enabling nature. Based on the changes, the tasks related to the customer service process of the TE Office, such as interviewing a job seeker, assessing the need for services, drawing up an employment plan and monitoring it, could be acquired more widely from service providers if considered appropriate. Law changes would enable so-called growth service pilots, from which future provinces will then be able to take advantage when considering what solutions they will take to organise growth services. The TE administration already acquires services from service providers. In total, more than EUR 200 million was spent on purchasing services in 2017. The changes now proposed would enable the TE administration to acquire both whole job seekers' service processes and, more broadly, certain services. Responsibility for the progress of the customer's service process and the availability of services would remain with the TE administration, but the service provider would be obliged to promote the customer's situation and comply with the legal requirements when providing the services. The impact of any lack of job seeker's entitlement to unemployment benefit would always be determined by the Employment and Economic Development Office. The Employment and Economic Development Office would always be responsible for registering as a job seeker and would decide, for example, to grant a pay subsidy and to select a job seeker for labour market training and to support self-study of a job seeker with unemployment benefit. These changes would be financed through existing appropriations. However, it is necessary to extend the scope of Article 51 to the acquisition of service processes and related services. The possible need for funding for growth service pilots will then be assessed separately. The amendments are intended to enter into force on 1 October 2018 and should enter into force as soon as possible in order to enable the preparation and training of contracts relating to experiments. However, the actual start-up of the experiments will require changes in the information system, and the current estimate is that these changes will be ready at the earliest at the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u150	Mr President! It is extraordinary that the privatisation of employment services is being speeded up through this reform to existing laws and systems, even though the legislation on growth services is really on the way in Parliament at the same time. Mr President! Companies now have a major role to play in employment services, for example in the organisation of training. The aim now, however, is to transfer existing regulatory tasks to the market. Public authorities delegated to private individuals have a direct link to labour market policy sanctions, i.e. the right to unemployment benefit. So it is not small or light in any way, but it directly affects the lives and livelihoods of the unemployed. For example, the presentation will enable a private service provider to direct customers to work trials, i.e. unpaid work for companies and others. A service provider can also direct the unemployed to their own company for unpaid work. If the customer refuses to work without pay, the result may be the loss of unemployment benefit. I would like to ask the Minister: do you see a problem here, and how to prevent such situations? It cannot be that private employment service companies can direct free labour. Mr President! Work trials are often problematic. They're free work. They may also sometimes be justified and desired by the unemployed themselves, but work trials must be based on the needs of the unemployed person, not on the needs of companies. Moreover, instead of unpaid work, the priority should be to seek the right job, training opportunities or subsidised work. There is a risk that when public authorities are delegated to an undertaking, there will be an increase in unpaid work or other types of gimmicks that will allow service providers to receive their incentive fee. It is very difficult to make this system seamless in such a way as to prevent this type of trickery. Mr President! There is also good experience of services provided by companies and the third sector, and they have their place. However, the tasks related to people's livelihoods, sanctions and carnivals are not very compatible with private service production. In addition, there is no evidence that there is a clear justification for the transfer of the public authority process to private producers. Especially for those who are hard to work, it is difficult to see what added value this brings. Mr President! It is quite clear that employment services must be developed. We need more personal and active service and contact. This is largely a policy and resource issue. Carences should also be abandoned and replaced by temporary loss of benefit. It would be a step forward towards a more supportive and more active labour market policy. The demolition of bureaucracy should also be extended to the daily lives of the unemployed. This could be done by giving up the active model and the carnival. Mr President! These proposals are making it possible, as the Minister said in his opening speech. I would like to ask Minister Lindström: is the Ministry going to direct the TE administration — and in what way, if possible — to increase these private services, or is it not going to? Is it going to be left to the discretion of the TE administration? So what will be this national policy and will state of mind after this law change?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u151	Madam President! This proposal is one of these government privatisation projects in which public services are to be transferred to the private sector and preferably so that municipalities are not allowed to participate. Experience in international research has in no way supported the idea that there is evidence that the employment of particularly vulnerable people by this means has improved. That is why my first question is: what is the basis for this thinking, that now, by privatising Finland, this would somehow make it easier? There are also a few other questions at the same time: This is a complete abolition of labour policy statements in the system. How, according to the Minister, will it show itself in the future, and then what are these decisions based on? If, as Mr Sarkkinen said, this private model goes completely — even now it is working — on what grounds are these producers being paid? Are they paying for how many people they name on the list or how many people actually work and how many people are employed then who are hardest to employ? One further point is the question of whether we have an EU data protection regulation going on here at the moment, and now it seems that we are also going to have access to information for private companies, whether they are capable of working, whether they are unemployed or not: how do you feel that this is possible, or whether it is even constitutionally possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u152	Mr President! Just in case, I'll be in the toilet. — As far as I am concerned, the government is now bringing forward this law. If this is to build a market in relation to the fact that the Growth Services Act is very strongly based on the idea that all services are placed on the market and even on the public side is to promote the creation of that market, then this in itself is the promotion of the market by the government. But when that same task will continue to be in the provinces, then it is wrong to say that this law is possible. If, at the same time, we have to promote the market and there is a law that makes it possible for that market to become more service-producing, then it is actually being directed to the market there. It is a question of promoting the operation of private services rather than allowing private services to be included. If you compare this with the Growth Service Act, then the great wonder is what all the activities this law gives to those service providers who may be private service providers. There is a point in the Growth Services Act which says that public authorities are strictly kept on the public side — they are not allowed to the business world — and there the same points say that, for example, the assessment of service needs is kept in its own hands. And now that you are reading this law, it is said here that the service needs assessment can also be given to the private side, and I think that is the big worrying feature. If we are thinking, for example, of the British model, which has given the long-term unemployed and the hard-to-work service to the market to a large extent, then there the public authorities have been very keen to hold on to what it gives to the market. And now we would actually be going much further than in Britain or Australia, for example, where models have been sought for these, in the sense that we are actually giving all the power away from ourselves. The market will have to figure out what that customer needs, and then it is up to the public authorities to ensure that the customer gets what a private operator has thought he needs in that service needs report. This is the equation that I simply cannot understand in the context of this law. Then it is a different matter that we are politically opposed to how much power we have to give to the market and to private companies about employment services. I personally believe that they are a good complement, but I would not be prepared to go this far. In fact, the second question relates to the fact that, when the Minister presented the Growth Services Act, he said that we would have pilot legislation. Pilot becomes the impression that it is a pilot that is temporary and then something is done. But now that I am reading this bill, this is not meant to be temporary, I understand, but this is meant to be permanent,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u155	Statement by Mr Arhinmäki and then by Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u156	Madam President! After Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Filatov and Mr Paatero's questions, I actually only have one question for Minister Lindström, and the question is: after hearing these questions, is it not the only reasonable answer to these questions that has now been made a little careless and thoughtless legislation, that it is better to withdraw it after the referral phase and perhaps come back to the matter in the autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u157	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u158	Madam President! Representative Arhinmäki continues his familiar, reliable line. Firstly, in general terms, this privatisation, then I will try to answer as many questions as I can. Above all, the controls remain in the administration, which determines what is acquired. It controls the market, defines the conditions and monitors quality and results. The responsibility remains on the public side. There is a long strengthening trend in the exploitation of partnerships and markets. This is part of that continuum. No drama or revolution is involved. This law, as I said, makes it possible to experiment with new models, and experience and change are controlled, and no one has any interest in building something that endangers customers or the service. The proposals made by the regions have been well-founded and are based on a genuine need for reform. There was no extra rush to the market. Administration cannot learn new things or gain experience of what works and what does not if it fails to try public-private cooperation in a new way, and that is what this is all about. There are not even private operators in the growth services market who could suddenly take over the big responsibility and volume, so even in this respect, this kind of phasing is in order. The use of the market is not an end but a means of providing better services in this context, where job seekers' services and employment services require diverse and flexible knowledge and know-how in the sector. Congressman Sarkkinen to direct the experiment. In order for the service provider to direct the experiment to itself, it must be agreed on in a contract with the Ely Centre. In this context, the administration will assess whether it would be appropriate to refer the experiment to the service provider. The government's proposal also opens the matter up thoroughly. The unemployment security sanctuaries always find out and set up a TE Office. Under the guidance of the Ministry of Economic Pilots, which are made possible by legislation, leave the need for regions. The Ministry supports the regions in preparing these pilots. Mr Paatero, as I said, using the market is not an end but a means. Labour policy statements are not about to be dropped. Statements on participation in the service are replaced by notices, i.e. the service provider informs the unemployment fund or Kela which service and during which time. Let's trust this. It's about commissions. Experience with performance fees has already been gained from experiments carried out. Rewards are paid precisely on the basis of the employment result, i.e. the person goes to work, not on any list. The Ely Centre retains the responsibility for organising. The Ely Centre also decides what it acquires. This temporaryity will be achieved by the repeal of JTYPL by Rekryla. Recruitment is part of the growth service package and a proposal for it is coming to Parliament on week 23. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u160	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The resources and staff of the Labour Administration are already scarce. In the future, if even more resources are transferred to a private operator, the question arises as to the possibility for public authorities to actually check the decisions taken by private individuals on service management, their accuracy and their reasonableness, or, for example, to verify whether the criterion for fixing the amount of the amount is justified. It is difficult to distinguish the qualifying decisions from this service process and from making a service plan into separate decisions, especially if there are no resources there to actually go through those cases and to be in contact with the unemployed and the service provider. The question arises that even now, when resources are scarce, when even more resources are transferred to the private side also in relation to this direction, what is the possibility for the authorities in general to monitor quality and the correctness of their activities, especially if we look at the life of the provincial world where regional funding comes from the state as a whole and social services put a terrible burden on the costs. And it is a big question mark how much of that resources can then be directed to the labour administration. So, in that sense, I'd be a little worried about this. Mr President! The Minister noted that the authorities assessed whether it was appropriate for such a private company producing employment services and guidance to direct the unemployed to their own company for a work trial, that the authorities would assess whether it was appropriate for the producer. But should it not be assessed whether it is appropriate for the unemployed and not whether it is appropriate for the undertaking that the experimenter takes? These work trials should always leave the situation and need of the unemployed, never the need for a business. In my opinion, these work trials should be used in very limited cases at all, because it is questionable that people are working in companies without pay and must not distort the labour market and must not trample on people's rights. In other words, we must be very careful not to go into a negative development here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u161	Mr President! I am well aware that the Minister has run out of time and has not really had time to answer any of the questions I asked in my speech, but perhaps there will be answers to them. In fact, the essential question is that when you said that quality is controlled, it is extremely important, but then if we go back to the fact that the result is the one that decides, then it is as if it is the result. If we look at the results of these international examples, many countries, such as the United Kingdom, initially wanted and controlled only employment. Then suddenly it was discovered that this does not work, but because we are dealing with hard-to-work people, there will also be a wide range of interim results and, for some people, there will never be access to the open labour market. If we do not know what the service process is, what these companies produce or what service providers produce, but it is very loosely regulated — as I understand it is intended that it is very loosely regulated in order to create these innovations — how do we control it? These employment outcomes can be monitored, but if there are no other results and criteria for them, for example, these issues of life management, well-being or even closer to the labour market are actually quite impossible to monitor through this system. We have not even developed proper criteria for this. Then, when there is so much swearing to the name that private companies create innovations, there are no examples in the world that such private companies have created great innovations. These innovations have mainly been that faster, more personal service, a whole service process — everything we would do now on the public side if there were enough human resources in relation to the customer base. I do not quite understand that, while we are seeking savings and cost-effectiveness here, what will make the impact there on private companies, if they have to do with the same money as the public and, in addition, it is thought that there will also be a slice of this entity for the entrepreneur, when it comes to the human resources and the innovations have not been created in the world. This is built very far on the fact that these private companies made up the wheel all over again. We know that at the moment we do not even have private companies that provide those services. In addition, we know that many of these private companies have said that they do not really know how to work with these hardest-to-work people. That is why you are obviously proposing this legislation so that those private companies can learn it. But I find it incomprehensible that the municipalities that have now demonstrated that they know how to do it should not continue to do this work. Moreover, from the point of view of freedom of choice, these municipalities would be one additional player for the customer and, from the point of view of competition, one good player, when the market is scarce and we do not even know whether they will be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u162	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u163	Mr President! Now I promise to focus mainly on Mr Filatov's questions and also on Mr Sarkkinen's questions. With regard to information systems, it has been thought that access to this system could be granted to a body responsible for that service process. In other words, the municipality is not responsible for the service process. Now the changes to be made form a back-up system like this in case when the regional and growth service reform comes into effect these new systems are not yet ready. Then this service needs assessment. The important thing now is to distinguish it from a public authority such as the role of gatekeeper and the evaluation of the individual customer's service needs. In the future, the Ely Centre or Province will decide which services and entities are to be purchased from these service providers and which categories of customers, and will be responsible for customer guidance to the service provider. This consideration, including the use of public funds, remains in the hands of the public authorities now and in the future. Within these limits, the service provider can then decide how best to support the employment of an individual customer and pay for the results. Then this one big question that has been raised here, that is to say, Mr Filatov asked about this, among other things, during Question Time, how to prevent service providers from making a performance bonus to get it now then making such a zero-hour contract, and Mr Sarkkinen raised this unpaid work. Well, the position we have in the ministry and in the government is such that such a situation must of course be prevented, this is not the intention. Therefore, these contracts define the determination of the service provider’s remuneration. Of course, the criteria must be carefully defined, the risks must be identified and properly met in the agreements. So there are these instruments to prevent speculation. We have procurement expertise here in the field of employment and business administration, and we must of course make full use of it in implementing these changes. In addition, the procurement of these changes requires the development of procurement competence of contracting authorities, and the Government has also invested a great deal in this, among other things by creating a network of procurement expertise. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has indeed launched this development project this spring, and the identification of the risks associated with the remuneration criteria is of course an extremely large, important part of that risk management, and this must of course be taken into account. According to the proposal under preparation for public recruitment services and skills development services, the definition of unemployed persons would be changed to include all those registered as jobseekers under the Rekryla law who do not actually have a full-time job or a full-time job relationship or an entrepreneur for at least two weeks and who do not study full-time. It would be a very strange situation if the service provider were paid a performance bonus on the basis of a zero-hour contract if, however, there was no work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u164	Madam President! As has been said here, it is unusual for the government to run this kind of emergency, so to speak as an experimental law, this privatisation of employment services at the same time as there is another legislation within, and yet this law is not temporary but permanent. But what is of particular interest to me now is how many of these international examples have been considered, and when this privatisation of employment services has taken place in a number of countries such as Finland, and the results have not, I believe, been very positive, what kind of comparison has been made, what kind of results have been achieved? I am particularly interested in employment services, Sweden, our neighbouring country, which often serves as an example, and there this has been done. This has been explained by the Swedish public service, and the Swedish public service notes on the privatisation of employment services that ‘Bristandebemanning,låstalokalerochmisstanktamuttortilldeltagare. 100 stopp för coachbolag effect fel, fusk och dåliga resortat’. In other words, the same in Finnish: ‘Insufficient staff, closed offices, suspicions of gifts. One hundred closed companies due to mistakes, cheating and poor results.” So this is what has been the result of Sweden, and now my question is, Mr Lindström: what kind of experience have you, for example, dug up here from the United Kingdom raised by Mr Filatov, what about Sweden, which is a very similar society and where this is the result? When it is often said that we should take a model from Sweden, we should also take a model from Sweden when failures occur, not to copy them here, but to do otherwise. This is a bit similar to the issue of social services, where many times it has been said that look at what happened in Sweden; when health services were privatised, there were closed health stations, closed maternity hospitals, weakened services. So what are these international examples on which you dare to take this forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u165	Mr President! I'll keep it up a little bit. Mr Arhinmäki raised the issue here of Sweden, the United Kingdom has been mentioned, and we already have information about Australia about what happened there: it really went a long way towards privatising employment services. We can now avoid the mistakes Australia made and has corrected in its system. They found there that this privatisation arrangement led to cream peeling, also in Sweden and Great Britain. This cream peeling, that is, that companies serve only those unemployed who can easily find a full-time job, or as the minister here listed where they would be paid, is only natural because the basic task of the company is to make profits for its owners. There is no way that the Minister will be able to make it a basic task for companies to produce well-being or to produce employment. When companies have the basic task of making financial profits for their owners, they will find ways to make the most of their basic task. And if companies are paid to get full-time jobs — which is a fine objective in itself, of course we all want people to get full-time jobs — then they will not serve the long-term unemployed, the low-skilled and those who are able to work part-time. And just like that, I was wondering if the Minister could answer whether there is going to be such a scoring system, where it has been said that people are being scored and, accordingly, companies are being paid money to serve people in order to avoid this cream peeling. Is there perhaps also going to be the scoring of the unemployed in these employment services, by which you will try to avoid this cream peeling? At least I was not convinced by what you just said about strengthening the purchasing skills of the ministry's officials or that this is all based on a contract. Yes, we need to know what concrete measures are being taken to prevent cream peeling, or whether there is going to be a scoring system for unemployed people, as is planned in the event of war.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u166	Mr President! I am well aware that it is difficult for us all to see how the social and growth services laws work together in the end. But I was thinking that since we have now had employment service centres, which have had social and health services, rehabilitation and work administration services together, and before the actual law was made, the strongest result came from the fact that there was a multi-professional, really partner-worker experience and the search for these types of services. And now that we've moved on to the TYP Act, this has become more routine because there are more customers. We're not going to be doing the research as carefully as we used to. This is clearly demonstrated by our studies at the University of Helsinki. If we were to serve this group that is most difficult to employ and think that the health check of the unemployed is directly chosen and rehabilitation is behind the bill and adult social work is done in the social welfare establishment, and then these employment services come from a company, a market that we do not even always know what the service concept is there, and you say that the province is monitoring that quality is being achieved, but I have understood from the growth service side that more is going on like this with a little black box thinking that, as it were, free hands are being given to that operator to produce results, so how is that quality being controlled? In order for the concept of the company in question to produce results, customer guidance is very important, the fact that the right kind of customers are coming to it, to whom the services it provides are the right ones. I ask again that if the public authority makes wise and competent customer guidance, how can it do so before the service needs assessment has been carried out — because it will probably tell you what services the customer needs — and yet now the starting point is that first customer guidance is in the public domain, but then that service needs assessment can be carried out in the company. What will be done if the concept of the company does not at all meet the service needs the customer has? Is it permissible at that stage to return the customer to the public authority when, however, the public authority is obliged to ensure that the customer receives the service that he or she needs? That sounded quite wise that the definition of an unemployed person in itself should change, because it partially eliminates these issues relating to zero-hour contracts, but there too, the essential thing is how those hours are amplified and how the whole thing is viewed. However, I would still like to see more results than just the employment income — although I am absolutely in favour of the employment result being one of these, because we know that there are people in the customer base who will never be employed in an open labour market — for example, whether a young person in a work experiment has gone to study or to undertake vocational studies at the same time. By the way, by the way,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u167	Mr President! I would still have liked to ask the Minister that now that these private service providers are coming into the sector to provide employment and business services, this is undeniably heading a little towards the unknown. I am not saying that there is necessarily a disaster here, because private service providers can also succeed in this, but there is no definite evidence of this. However, there is good evidence of these regional municipal trials where municipalities or associations of municipalities have been providing personal services to the unemployed for less than a year now. The shows have been very good: Very many unemployed people have been employed, they have received personal service in their own municipality and they have been met as people there. Many have come to say and sent feedback that these experiments should definitely be continued, and I think that the municipalities have also been very pleased with these experiments. I have also been asked why Minister Lindström does not want to continue with this good practice, but to go in this new direction. Could the Minister still tell us what reason he has for the fact that by the end of this year these municipal trials will be coming to an end, especially since they were originally to be introduced until the regional reform comes — but, as we know, the regional reform will be delayed by at least one year, if not for a longer period. I would also like to ask the Minister if he could consider continuing these trials of municipalities for at least a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u168	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u169	Mr President! Again, let’s push and try to answer the questions we have here. Firstly, as a complement to these information systems issues. This THP operating model is not only about the TE administration's systems or information, but also about municipal social welfare data and systems. That is why there is an information system for TYP operations. This is a good point to make here. Of course, these performance-based models need to be developed and thought about the results to be paid for. For example, are different interim results paid, and if so, from where. It is now important to prepare for this in good time. The idea is, therefore, that the Employment and Economic Development Office should find out about unemployment security issues and get information from the service provider about what has happened that affects unemployment security law. This is where the applicant is consulted, and only then will possible sanctions be decided. The Ely Centres would be responsible for ensuring equal access to services and activities, defining their needs, quantity and quality, the way in which they are implemented and the control of production. The Ely Centres also set qualitative criteria for service provision in calls for tenders, including the skills required from service providers’ staff. And these service providers are subject to other laws, that is to say, the general laws of the administration and the administrative law in general, the language law, the laws of publicity, and others, which apply when carrying out such public administrative tasks. Representative Arhinmäki, once again why this law is now being passed. The progress of the growth services legislation has made it possible to assess the need for a transitional arrangement and it has become clear that the capacity of the administration and the various producers to implement the new malities must, as far as possible, be supported even before the entry into force of the regional and growth services reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u173	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the debate, but that is what I say when the Minister said to this haste that we will certainly do in the Committee on Labour everything we can to ensure that the law is adopted quickly, but the bottleneck is a Constitutional Committee which cannot be rushed, because it has all the elements of this social reform to look at, and I am afraid that this will be done at the same time as the Growth Services Act, because the fact is that there will also be interfaces where public authorities are put on the hands of private service providers: under what conditions they can be made, how precise they are. And, for example, the fact that until now it has been the case that unemployment must not be reported outwards unless the customer agrees to do so. What, then, is to be done with those customers who say that my unemployment is otherwise not reported to anyone? They remain on the territory of the province, which, however, should only provide services in the event of market disruption, or of a municipality which has a ban on production in itself in this system. These are the things we will have to consider in the future. - I'm sorry to have to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u174	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion. Forty-five minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 7. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u180	Madam President! Digitality is the word of the day, and the Accessibility Directive is an issue which, at least in some committees, has already dealt with in previous stages with how the rights of people with disabilities, for example, will actually be realised in these digital services. For example, in social services, the Prime Minister here believes strongly that people in the future will also use social services as digital. The challenge is that at present there are at least 400,000 people in Finland who do not use those who do not have machines that do not know how to use digital services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u183	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u184	Madam President! Too high a price for housing is a problem for all growth centres. The situation is particularly bad here in Helsinki. We have an exclaiming shortage of affordable rental housing. The price of living here is already an obstacle to employment, because in low-paid sectors many simply cannot afford to live here. Too high housing costs also create many other problems. The price of housing is the main cause of urban poverty, and it even puts people on income support when housing costs are not covered otherwise. Far too many people are permanently dependent on income support, and we are all familiar with the huge housing allowance costs. The only sustainable way to reduce housing support expenditure is to create adequate affordable housing production. In this respect, the government's interest rate subsidy is a key tool. It is also a much cheaper way than housing allowance, because housing support costs amount to around 2 billion and over 300 million more through income support to housing costs, while interest subsidy costs for the state are currently 10 million. Even if it were to be calculated on the basis of interest rates of 4 %, the government's interest subsidy expenditure would be around 100 million. Recently, demands have been made in public that production aid should be totally abandoned. In these figures, at least it is not justified, on the contrary, it would be advisable to increase production aid, thus reducing the need for housing allowance. Nor can housing aid affect the mismatch between supply and demand, which is an important part of this problem. Housing policy is influenced by a number of factors, and there is no single solution to the excessively high costs of housing, but consists of many measures, many of which are also municipal solutions. On the State side, MAL agreements are an important tool for the State to commit municipalities to more ambitious production targets, for example by supporting public transport projects. This is also a way of guiding the creation of a sustainable urban structure. Although this subsidised production alone is not enough to solve the problem, it is one of the key elements to improve the situation, as more affordable housing needs to be produced. And that is precisely why Parliament, when adopting a short ten-year model of interest subsidies, also adopted a statement requiring a full reform of the long model of interest subsidies in order to make it attractive. In this respect, it was the will of Parliament that this reform should provide more affordable rental housing for production. To this will of the Parliament, this government proposal does not respond. Furthermore, after this proposal, the short interest rate subsidy is much more attractive than long-term interest rate support, and when the short interest rate subsidy has not met the objectives set by the government, it is difficult to understand the logic by which this change would now speed up the production of long-term interest rate support. The good thing about this proposal is the prioritization of repayments, the extension of interest subsidies, the possibility of choosing between fixed and annuity reductions, the possibility of additional repayments, the increase in the maximum contribution to 95%, and the possibility of obtaining a preliminary ruling on eligible costs. These are positive changes, but they are not sufficient to increase affordable production. The experts consulted by the committee were very unanimous on this, whether it was a municipal company or a company operating in a non-subsidised market. Attractiveness is reduced by the fact that the interest rate subsidy still does not extend to the entire duration of the loan and the limitation period. The amount of aid to be paid in the form of interest should also be constant throughout the loan period. Moreover, the proposed own contribution rate of 2,5 % is not an incentive at the current level of interest. A model should be introduced whereby the interest rate of the aid will automatically change as the interest rate changes on the market. There is a great deal of concern in this proposal about the ban on preparation for corrections. The current way to prepare for basic improvements through rents will be eliminated. The idea for the government is that a change in the company's financial position will enable preparations to be made for the rest, but that is precisely why it is not enough to raise the interest rate on the own contribution to 6%. The model presented also means that the company may be in a situation where the basic improvement is financed entirely by debt. This is a threat to a stable and predictable development of rents. Mr President! In the future, different rules would be in place in different locations of the same company in relation to the preparation for basic improvements and the duration of the interest subsidy. This complicates property management and housekeeping and is not transparent. What was shared by all the players in the sector that the committee heard was that the big problem is the instability in the field. A 40-year commitment cannot be in a situation where regulation changes every year. A good example of a bad example is the government's proposal to set income limits for ARA rental dwellings, which were subsequently abandoned with the same arguments as we tried to oppose them, but the government had to get them from a consultant before it was understood that time and money alone were wasted on it. Finally, Mr President, one aspect of long-term interest-rate support, which is often overlooked too little, is the prevention of segregation. One of the biggest challenges facing cities is segregation and combating it, and in Helsinki, for example, we do it with a distribution of housing production, which makes sure that the city is built and developed in a balanced way, so that the regions do not separate and so that people do not separate. In this regard, long-term interest subsidies are a very central tool, and it is therefore very important that they be competitive and attractive compared to short-term interest subsidies, since short interest subsidies are exempted from regulation within 10 years, which will deprive the municipality of a very important tool to ensure that our residential areas become more diverse. Madam Speaker! In the light of the above, I would like to make the following motion, namely four statements contained in the objection lodged in committee: The first statement: ‘The Government requires the Government Regulation to provide for short-term attractive conditions for the longterm interest rate Declaration 2: ‘The Commission requires that the interest rate subsidy period be defined as a whole Statement 3: ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor the effects of the As well as the fourth statement: ‘The Commission requires that the Government does not delay the overall review of the
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u185	Mr President! I support the four statements proposed by Mr Modig, which are included in the committee's objection to the report. In addition, I think it is a bit of a legal problem that the actual steak in the draft law is included in the regulation, in the draft regulation which has not yet been adopted, and in this draft regulation these statements take a stand. Secondly, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has made it very clear that the so-called supply aid for decent housing, i.e. state aid for those who build affordable rental dwellings, has been in place for a very long time. On the other hand, the so-called "demand support" in the form of housing aid, which is difficult to estimate how much of it actually flows to private landlords, has grown sharply and is now in the order of EUR 2 billion per year. Currently, housing support is multiple, very high in comparison with supply support to support the construction of low-cost rental dwellings. This does not seem to be a very balanced development, and these proposals seek to balance this development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u186	Madam President! We have unreasonably little affordable housing, whether in owner-occupied housing or rental housing in large cities, in urban centres, where more people are moving. We would get along much better if we did not make so much of the money available for living. This is a problem for big cities, but this is especially a problem for Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, where even more than half of the current income goes to housing, whether it is mortgage repayments or rents. This is also a national economic problem because it is out of general consumption, services, employment. This will be costly for people, but it will also be costly for society, for taxpayers, to support over-priced rents by EUR 2000 million per year through housing allowance. I am in favour of us paying less housing allowance and we have more affordable housing. But as long as we do not have enough affordable housing, we have to support people even in some way. Madam President! Worse still, a large part of this housing aid that we are paying with tax money is being poured out on investors. Large companies that have previously offered rents on their own through long ARA loans have raised rental dwellings today when this 40-year period has come to an end, regardless of the condition of the dwellings, could say, even in a gross way, rents. This is done by VVO, the current Charmed One. At least that is where profits go to domestic operators, but in Sato, which is doing this, our tax resources are in fact draining to foreign venture investors. The largest single owner is a Swedish venture investor. Madam President! It is therefore better for people, for the individual, for families, for us to invest in affordable rental housing, and it makes more sense for society to invest in the construction of more affordable rental housing and not in the payment of ever-increasing housing subsidies. Madam President! This ten-year short-term interest subsidy is in fact a ditch-to-all solution. It was thought that it would speed up production, bring more housing into this situation. This certainly did happen, but in ten years' time we will be in an even worse situation. By the way, when these are exempted from this rental of your own and the rents rise, we have the land that should have been reserved for long, reasonably priced rental houses, thus turning into hard money rental houses, for which excessive rents may be requested. Therefore, long-term interest subsidies must be made much more attractive, they must be the starting point that, when they are built at affordable prices, they will also remain affordable for a long time. Madam President! That is why it is great that Mr Modig, who is very familiar with housing policy, has made a very important effort, and I hope that they will receive real support here, because it is a huge issue for individual people, but it is so for the entire national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u187	Madam President! The problem raised by Mr Hassi that the steak of this whole proposal is almost entirely in the regulations seems to me to be quite relevant. I don't think this is a good way to do it. But it is also likely to make this field of activity unstable, because the regulations cannot be influenced by Parliament and through it we also have no control over the stability of this field of activity. And that is what all the players, public and private alike, have drawn attention to and raised this as a major problem. This interest subsidy alone will not save us. We will never be able to build so much interest rate support that it alone would affect the development of market prices, although it is a very important part of it. That is why we in the Left Alliance have thought that municipalities should consider whether there could be entirely new production models in which municipalities could bring more affordable production to the market, which would, for example, be based on the principle of cost-effectiveness. There could then be a limited liability company that is normally on the market, which would only be non-profit-making. In practice, a non-profit limited liability company is no different from a limited liability company that makes a zero profit. In this way, without aiming for profit and respecting the principle of cost-effectiveness, a model could be created for municipalities to create more opportunities for producing less expensive housing than the market price, which would then contribute, according to the laws of demand and supply, to the way in which the price of housing becomes on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u188	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 2/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u189	Mr President! The economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, the so-called CETA Agreement, is now at hand, and first of all, in times of protectionism, it must be said that we must always raise our voices in favour of freedom of trade. That is an important principle, and that is something that Finland and the European Union must defend. But free trade is always linked to the rules of the game, and it is precisely these rules of the game that this CETA agreement is also about. As we know, Canada is a strong player in many sectors, and it is also a strong player in the mining industry. The Canadian mining industry is on the move in Europe and has also been on the move in Finland, and I am sure this will continue to be the case. This first point, namely the mining industry, is in fact accompanied by a joint statement by the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a whole, which is quite strong text. In fact, it states: ‘The government requires that the Government immediately initiates the evaluation of the reform of the mining law and produce the necessary amendments to be In other words, the CETA agreement and its adoption created a very urgent need to make changes to the Mining Act, and this need arises, of course, from the concern whether the Finnish State could be liable for compensation afterwards if the CETA agreement were to become more stringent. This is a good question and relates precisely to these investment protection issues, which is the subject of this agreement. The government's gonna be pretty busy evaluating the mining law and making a show here. This is in itself a good thing that such a proposal is now coming. I believe that this mining issue is the first and has now been resolved in a perfectly good way in this committee report, if this statement also becomes Parliament's opinion. I was involved in the objection raised at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and my own concern was precisely about investment protection and the dispute resolution model, which have been given a great deal of attention in recent years. Now this model, which the CETA Agreement would provide, means that the dispute settlement process takes place outside the national courts. In other words, an investment court will be built for this agreement and it will then allow non-EU companies to use such a private-law judicial body past national courts. The fact is that companies outside the EU will in fact be given better protection than companies within the EU or domestic companies in this case. And when it is often a question of a million - grade compensation requirements, it can be thought that the threat of such a requirement alone could put pressure on the government and political decision -makers on legislative issues. In addition, in September 2017, Belgium has requested the European Court of Justice to assess whether this investment court system set out in the CETA Agreement is compatible with EU law and the Treaties and there is still no ruling or opinion of the EU Court of Justice. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also states in this report that when such an opinion comes, it may affect the model of the CETA Agreement on investment dispute resolution. These are the reasons why I personally see that at this stage it is quite difficult to accept an agreement which could be substantially changed by the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union and, in itself, an agreement that provides greater protection for non-EU companies than for domestic or intra-EU companies. Therefore, this agreement should not be approved until these amendments to the Mining Act are in force and until the EU Court of Justice’s opinion exists and there is a dispute settlement mechanism and a method of investment protection that would treat all companies equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u190	Mr President! The EU-US TTIP Free Trade Agreement and the CETA Free Trade Agreement between the EU and Canada now under discussion have long been before Parliament. Removing barriers to foreign trade is in principle a good and worthwhile thing for an export country such as Finland. So what could possibly go wrong? The first and perhaps smaller problems are that Finland itself is not actively negotiating its trade agreements; the EU is doing so on behalf of all 28 of its Member States. It is clear, therefore, that the interests of the smaller Member State will be neglected in the negotiations. For example, the EU-US FTA at TTIP Finland, despite its efforts, did not bring icebreakers into the scope of the agreement, at least when it was still being negotiated, even if the icebreakers had been just the necessary sector in which the opening up of the market to the United States would have meant big trade for Finland. The second and bigger problem is that both TTIP and CETA agreements include the establishment of a new International Investment Court. This is a new system in which a foreign company can sue Finland before an international court. The use of Finnish courts is not required. This is a considerable motion of censure on our domestic courts. The Parliament's Legal Committee has discussed the extradition of Finland's jurisdiction from Finland on several occasions, and the committee has always stated that it is very unfavourable. Nevertheless, after the vote last December, the Committee on Legal Affairs gave the EU a practically open mandate to open negotiations on a wider system of investment courts. Now we are in a situation where the EU offers only the 'take or leave' option to the Member States. This is a very bad thing for democracy in the EU. In spring 2016, CETA also included provisions on the investment court system without the possibility for EU Member States to influence the content of the provisions in practice. This is a horror example of the lack of democracy in the EU. The position of the Finns Party on the CETA agreement and the Government proposal now under discussion is that free competition and the dismantling of barriers to trade are worthy of development, but there is no reasonable reason why the Finnish courts cannot continue to resolve legal disputes between the state and investors. On the other hand, international arbitration based on trade agreements can be developed without the establishment of a permanent investment court. The agreement in question should be renegotiated without creating a new investment court. The Finns of Peru are therefore in favour of rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u191	Mr President! In principle, I welcome international cooperation. Global phenomena require cross-border solutions and rules of play. I was personally involved at the turn of the millennium in the so-called 'globalisation critical movement'. True, the name is very misleading: the movement was particularly global. The criticism of the movement was not about globalisation, but about global capitalism and the power and unethical behaviour of large companies. If this CETA agreement, which has now been presented, is mirrored by the criticism that was made at the time, then there are just so many risks and uncertainties that I do not think it makes sense to accept it now. Mr President! CETA has improved dispute settlement on TTIP, but the fundamental problem remains. By adopting the CETA Convention, the Parliament confers the democratic power of the State on the supranational private courts and increases the power of large companies vis-à-vis governments. This is the criticism already expressed by the so-called 'globalisation critical movement'. A number of domestic and international experts have repeatedly pointed out that the investment protection of CETA confers disproportionate rights on foreign investors. In the future, Finland and other States covered by the agreement would be less able to act in accordance with the overall interests of society than before the CETA Agreement. The ability of companies to make profits will be safeguarded, but the state's ability to safeguard environmental welfare, public health and human rights will be undermined. And in exchange for all of this, the government has to offer marginally small imputed economic growth, which may sometimes occur in the future if the uncertain assumptions of the calculation models were hit. Mr President! For us, the government has been very keen to convince us that everything is in order that the new model of the Investment Court and the instrument of interpretation added to the CETA Agreement will remove these concerns. However, there is no guarantee of this at all. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, by its statement, calls on the government to reform the mining legislation before the entry into force of the CETA agreement, has also seen through this mishap. This statement is good and should be implemented. A quotation from the UaV report: ‘Revisions of the legislation governingfishing activities are potential changes which, in the opinion of Mr President! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in fact, from the right to the left, from the government to the opposition, all the representatives unanimously acknowledge the problem of investment protection, although at other readings the government has tried to look at CETA solely in a positive light. Similar actions may just as well take place in sectors other than the mining industry. Mr President! Why, then, have mines and mining legislation been so strongly raised? Someone said that if, in this world situation, even the EU and Canada cannot reach an agreement, then who can do it? After all, Canada is a rule of law, a democratic state, and there is almost a rock star as prime minister. But it is not Canada or the EU, it is companies. It is a question of how businesses operate and where companies can challenge a democratic state. This is not about Canada, it is about how companies operate in their own capitalist logic. Mr President! When we talk about mining, it is precisely because Canadian companies are particularly active in it. Canadian companies already operate in Finland, and with the CETA agreement more and more mining companies might come here. It is therefore appropriate to mention a recent case in Canada which unfortunately reinforces the doubts we have expressed and our concern about CETA. A few years ago, the US mining company Bilcon challenged the Canadian Arbitral Court under the NAFTA agreement because the Canadian authorities had decided to prevent Bilcon’s environmental disaster. The company won the case in the investment court and is possibly receiving over $400 million in compensation for a mine that never existed. According to the Canadian Federal Court, it is clear that investor protection in this case has limited the administrative capacity to regulate in the interests of the environment and that the ruling of the arbitral tribunal is questionable. However, the Canadian Court finds that it has no jurisdiction in relation to the ruling of the arbitration tribunal. Mr President! This is the reality of how companies operate in profit-making, and this is a relevant case for CETA, as it includes a similar condition of fair and equal treatment, under which the American mining company took Canada to court and won. If the CETA Agreement is approved, there is no guarantee that this could not happen in Finland. Mr President! That is why we are going to propose the rejection of the CETA agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u192	Mr Hassi — is gone, Mr Salolainen — is gone, Mr Harakka — is going to crash.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u193	Mr President! This free trade agreement with Canada has indeed arrived in the Chamber now after the committee debate. Given the threats and opportunities associated with the FTA, it is a good thing that it also took a large round in the opinions committees. From the outset, it was not intended to ask for an opinion on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but fortunately the Bureau came to a different conclusion. Both the consequences of the environment and the rights of workers are issues of concern and need to be taken care of. It is therefore very commendable that the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs has a boost which requires Finland to reform mining legislation and protect Finnish natural resources. The objection which Mr Arhinmäki has spoken about here also highlights the dangers and threats associated with the agreement with merit. On the other hand, CETA is the most progressive free trade agreement that has been concluded so far, so if free trade is to be promoted, it is very difficult to oppose this very agreement with the same minds, in which both sides share the same values and objectives. Since trade between Finland and Canada is negligible — exports are only EUR 700 million, imports are even smaller — so much must be achieved in economic activity. The report highlights the position of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which still wanted to exclude health services from free trade by means of numerous statements or reservations. Similarly, when Finland joined the European Union at the time, they wanted to keep welfare services out of the reach of EU competition law. However, the opposite has happened: public services have gradually slipped into competition, and in most sectors public authorities have to compete seemingly on the same line as private producers. I say ‘supremely’ because public authority has legal provisions, even laid down At the same time, it has to be said that too many municipalities weaken their own vitality by doing too much in public. However, public health services guaranteed by the Constitution have been sought to be excluded from competition, but this protection is not threatened either by the EU or CETA, but by ourselves. The most fundamental upheaval in the proposal for a war is that private individuals should be placed on an equal footing with the public. The burden of proof now rests with the public that it does not interfere with the business of private companies by doing its own basic task, the task laid down in the Constitution. This traditional non-profit-making welfare state is just one neutral competitor among others. It is the biggest change in social thinking in recent history. Mr President! Finally, this privatisation of health care is a constitutionally precise place. So we have an Orwellian situation where, at the same time as it is sworn that public health is not an economic activity for which an EU Commission statement is required, we want to add a section to the Income Tax Act, which would promise the competitiveness of the public operator. This small increase is fundamentally revolutionary. We should stop by section 21d of the Income Tax Act. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u194	Mr President! Like Mr Arhinmäki, I was involved in the anti-globalisation movement of the millennium, but I also felt that I was not opposed to the global world, but that I was opposed to the too great power of companies to determine the lives of our other people through solutions based on the values of capitalism. I understand the need for investment protection in such a situation where a company is considering investing in an unstable country with a completely unpredictable environment and no functioning legal system. I understand that in such a situation it may be absolutely essential for the company to dare to invest in the fact that there is a protection. But why do we need these things in Europe, let alone in Canada? Is Europe not now a fairly stable area where there is a chance of making investment decisions at a normal risk, as is Canada? I personally see that the Finnish legal system is quite sufficient to solve potential problems in such situations. If we accept this agreement as it stands, we will give away democratic decision-making power. We are undermining our own ability to decide on our own legislation if we give companies the right to bring the state to justice, in the words of the cartels. For example, if we want to protect the environment and we make legislation that makes pollution expensive, have we then violated the company's right to profit? I want us to keep this decision-making power to ourselves. Investment protection is unnecessary and this agreement should be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u195	Mr President! This CETA agreement is a matter of principle and also of practical importance, not in terms of the volume of trade between Finland and Canada, but, above all, because it is an example and a head start that can be expected to follow, that is to say, contractual arrangements that promote free trade and then establish principles and procedures for resolving disagreements. So it does not matter what we decide about this, and it is very important that we know what we decide, what we commit ourselves to. It is clear that people other than Canada will also have the right to expect the same kind of arrangement that Parliament agrees to in this respect. Free trade in itself is a key factor in our well-being. International division of labour remains an overwhelming arrangement for well-being. Nations specialize in where they are good, and so do companies, and by exchanging goods and services among ourselves we get the best possible benefit. However, this must be done with respect for social service tasks, decision-making in society, respect for the environment and also respect for the proper working conditions of workers and other social standards. NGOs have expressed many concerns about the impact of this CETA agreement. The negotiations were a very difficult process, and it was particularly difficult to keep up with what is being negotiated because of the secret nature of the negotiations. On the other hand, when this led to the bizarre situation that these negotiating documents could only be visited at certain times at the appropriate premises of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and beyond, it is clear that this has contributed to a great deal of mistrust. The big question is this investment protection and the obligations we are committing ourselves to here. I think it is clear that, in principle, better procedures are national courts and should be treated with great caution in any of the different legal procedures from those agreed by the normal national or jointly accepted states. When this CETA concern was very much on the agenda a year ago, the Parliamentary Audit Committee went through the matter thoroughly in connection with the previous Government Act on freedom of choice on the subject. In this respect, the outcome of the expert and non-governmental consultation and also of the consultation with the authorities was reasonably clear. The problems of this investment protection do not come first and foremost through this CETA agreement; they come from our own activities. The representative Harakka opened this matter in an excellent way that is crystallizing and eloquent. CETA obliges foreign investment, non-EU investment, to be treated in accordance with the same principles as those applied to companies operating within the EU and their investments. Now, with regard to freedom of choice legislation, one year ago, it turned out that the problem really does not arise as to whether or not Canadian companies will come here and how they will be treated in the field of social services, but the problem arises from the fact that if the market is opened up to Finnish and European companies, then there will be expectations of business and also profit, and if later there would be a desire to change the system – it is said that, in the area of freedom of choice, there will be a situation in which, for example, people in Finland, Europeans or Canadians, are entitled to compensation, in order to ensure the quality of the costs or services and equality of society — and those companies that have entered the market in so-called good faith. This is an issue which has not been dealt with with with sufficient precision and also with sufficient transparency, because the solutions that are now being made in the social welfare reform are, in fact, restricting the decision-making possibilities of future generations. If the company has made investments, acquired premises, acquired information technology, made programme investments and made its business plan and then said that this could no longer continue, that the system could be changed, then this could become a liability upon the disappearance of the market. This liability therefore applies to Finnish, European and Canadian companies. Well, now that we have discussed this issue a year ago with regard to social services, which is our big question with regard to social services and their production, it is of course time to re-evaluate when there is a new proposal for freedom of choice from the government. The Audit Committee has not gone through this at the same angle and precision level as we did a year ago, but instead we are waiting for an official statement from the Ministry of Finance on how to proceed if a future government decides to amend social legislation. It will then apply to Canadian investors under the CETA obligation as well as companies already operating in the European Union. When that opinion from the Ministry of Finance is available to the committee, it is an important statement, because for the first time I think it will properly say what the legal consequences are and what the risks are in the economic sense if we decide to go in the opposite direction of this social legislation or the freedom of choice law some time later than the government is now proposing: do the decision-makers of society, in accordance with the mandate they have received from the people, have a free right of action, or are we going to make decisions that will never get rid of them again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u196	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes that Parliament adopt the CETA Agreement and also the law on the transposition of provisions falling within the scope of legislation. The promotion of free trade in the context of fair rules of play is, of course, to be welcomed in principle, but unfortunately this bill and the related agreement contain some aspects that the Finns cannot accept. Among other things, the proposal includes the establishment of an independent and permanent investment court system to replace arbitration as a means of dispute resolution. In accordance with the Article of the Agreement, this court established by the Treaty could, in its judgment, order the injured party to pay financial compensation or return the property, in which case the arbitration judgment should provide that the defendant may pay financial compensation instead of return. The agreement would give jurisdiction under the jurisdiction of Finland to the court in question, that is, the new supranational operator. Mr President! According to the Government’s proposal, CETA is considered to represent a significant change in the investment protection rules and the resolution of their disputes and would also provide the basis for the development of a multilateral investment court. According to a government proposal, the EU and Canada would work to set up such a multilateral court as soon as the necessary number of participants were received. The system also confers jurisdiction on Finland’s judicial rulings to a foreign judicial body. At the same time, the powers of the Finnish authorities and the legislative powers of the Parliament are limited in a way that is difficult to accurately assess in advance. A dispute before an investment court would not be prevented by the fact that the case has already been finally settled before a national court or an EU court. A dispute settlement system for investment disputes would give a foreign investor in Finland the right to ignore our national legal system, even if there is no reasonable reason for this from a national point of view. The scheme would put pressure on investment management as a result of the possibility of an investment action. The investment court may act as a deterrent that prevents or slows down the democratic process [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u197	Mr President! I am not in favour of approving this agreement either. I would be prepared to accept this agreement if it did not involve this controversial dispute resolution procedure. I also believe that this permanent dispute settlement based on judges appointed by the States is in itself an improvement compared to such ad hoc arbitration arrangements used so far in international trade agreements, but this nevertheless leads to unknown paths in Finland. It should be borne in mind that these dispute settlement procedures between the State and the investor stem from the conclusion of the first investment agreements between industrialised countries and developing countries several decades ago. At the time, there was a lack of confidence in the legal system of the contracting partner, that is, developing countries, in the industrialised countries, and that is why such a system was created. In recent decades, however, large international companies have started using this system in a completely different way. They have begun to challenge, for example, environmental protection decisions, environmental standards, improvements to environmental legislation and labour law, and international mining companies are one of the most active users of this procedure. Canada is a sympathetic country. I have relatives there myself. In many respects it is a much nicer and more European country, at least in the eyes of a Nordic citizen, than the United States. But Canada is home to a very large proportion of the world’s multinational mining companies, that is, mining companies operating around the world. Canada is based about half of the world’s mining companies. That is why it is precisely how mining companies use this dispute settlement system that is crucial to the practical consequences of this agreement. I therefore think it is very important — and this is a kind of landmark decision and I think it is important — that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has stressed the need to improve mining legislation before this agreement enters into force. Nevertheless, I would not like to accept this agreement with this dispute settlement system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u198	Mr President! Surely everyone, or at least almost everyone, is in favour of more free trade between Finland and Canada. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] In fact, even the Committee on Foreign Affairs in its report raises this problem. A direct quotation from the report: ‘The amendments to the legislation governing the business are potential changes which, in the opinion of a number There are recent examples of this, such as how Canada has been challenged by a US mining company and won in such a dispute settlement procedure. This is the problem. Now that we cannot just take this free trade share, but we must take the whole package, that is the fundamental problem that we are going to hand over the rule of law in these matters to a supranational private court, and that is why it does not really matter whether the majority of EU countries and Canada share the same values or not, because this is a question of how companies operate. Therefore, Mr President, we should not fall for this, which talks about these values.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u199	Mr President! I would like to inform Mr Arhinmäki that, as Mr Heinäluoma said, we in the Committee on Audit dealt with this quite broadly and I am familiar with it. It is also customary to read these reports from the committee. But, Mr President, it is sad in some way that the attitude to international cooperation on Europe's day is so negative that we want to bring down such agreements. In fact, I am not surprised that when Sipilä's Board of Directors started, the confidence indicator for companies rose directly to the north-east very strongly. It restored confidence that it is worthwhile investing in Finland and cooperating internationally. In my own country, we see it very strongly when Meyer, Bayer and Daimler-Benz continue to invest more and more and believe that international cooperation with Finland is a good thing. I have a little sense of old-fashioned thinking in the speeches of Arhinmäki, when I listen to them. Give up that attitude. I also know Canada when my two oldest sisters have lived there for decades and I have been there a lot. Canadian values may be illustrated by the fact that Canada has not spent any Canadian dollars on bank support, even though it was next door to the United States. I went there, too, to see how this was possible. They said the main reason is that there are control systems working, they are a bit of a bore in the banking business. They also have values in Canada in terms of economy, cooperation and business. Of course, cooperation with a country such as Canada is good and fruitful for Finland when the agreements are well concluded and seen, as has been done in this context. President! I hope that, on Europe Day, all of us in this Chamber will better understand the importance of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u200	Mr President! In this way, on Europe Day, I would like to remind Mr Ala-Nissila that it is precisely this dispute settlement procedure in this CETA agreement, which has now been specifically criticised in this Chamber, that is being examined by the European Court of Justice. It is quite possible that the EU Court of Justice will state that it is not in line with EU law, and I understand that this dispute settlement will lapse. This is because Belgium has brought this matter before the EU Court of Justice. Fortunately, we in Europe have such assurances that things are going to be right in law. But precisely because this would be a potentially huge change in our legal system, it is a matter that needs to be looked at very carefully. We had the impression in the Committee on the Environment when we heard from experts from the Foreign Affairs Department that there has been no realistic assessment of what it means in Canada — although a nice and sympathetic country — is, as in the United States, a very aggressive legal culture with even such legal aid offices or legal offices looking for those in the business world who would sue countries and who would promise to do it free of charge if the case were lost, on condition that, if the case were won, this law firm would get a share of that victory. There is a very large department in the Canadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deal with legal cases, disputes in which the Canadian State has jurisdiction over foreign companies. The Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not made any provision for Finland to become part of such a completely new type of legal culture, and it is worrying precisely because of the indirect effects that this can bring. For example, we in the European Parliament know that even the WTO agreement is being used as a lobbying argument. Companies that oppose certain improvements to environmental legislation, for example, argue that this is contrary to the WTO agreement and will lead to lawsuits. If such a dispute settlement system is now accepted as part of the EU-Canada Trade Agreement, then a corresponding lobbying argument against improvements in labour law and environmental legislation and consumer law will also be expected for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u201	Mr President! In this way, on Europe Day, I would like us all, including Mr Ala-Nissila, to appreciate and respect the European rule of law and the Finnish legal system. This critical element of the agreement, i.e. the dispute settlement procedure, is not about cooperation between EU countries and Canada; it is not about international cooperation; it is about creating a supranational private court to which companies — I would stress: companies — can challenge countries with claims for compensation. So it is not a question of what values are represented by the majority of EU countries, what values are represented by Canada, it is a question of what values are represented by companies that are now being given the opportunity to challenge this dispute resolution procedure to a supranational private court in countries where democratic decision-making is taking place. Mr President! As far as the shipping industry is concerned, Mr Ala-Nissilä started by saying that the Sipilä regime was also successful. However, if we can at least remember what happened, the question is that the Turku shipyard was going backwards under the leadership of South Korean owners. The throat is live and the current Prime Minister Sipilä, the then opposition leader, and the centre party shouted that you should give more money to the South Koreans, give 50 million taxpayers' money to the South Koreans. They would have disappeared on that bridge road, and the shipyard would not have been rescued. But this is not what we did, despite the fact that you tried hard to instruct us in the center. Instead, we started by leaving the country as an anchor, and this was done by an operator who is a permanent and good operator. This was done in the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy by the current representative, Mr Ihalainen, Mr Urplainen, Mr Arhinmäki and then Minister Vapaavuori. When you want to thank for this, how well things are going at Meyer Shipyard, thank those who did not listen to your advice for it, did not go to the cheap one that was being fed, but insisted that the yard should have a owner who guarantees work there for a long time, and that is the job we are now enjoying. The place of thanks, Mr Ala-Nissila, belongs to those who then dared to make difficult decisions when one can get a lot of criticism right, but who made the right decisions, which is why there is a lot of work to be done for years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u202	Mr President! I, too, would like to join in all the necessary thanks to all those who deserve to be commended for their work in the past. I note that in this context it is also necessary to present its own relationship with Canada and the Canadians,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u205	Mr President! Just as Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Heinäluoma said there, company power will be strengthened in every free trade agreement that opens up the possibility for companies to trade more freely. However, it is not entirely irrelevant that state restrictions and bureaucracy, including restrictions in the name of defence, are also partially eliminated. This is particularly true of the maritime industry, for example, in that Finnish icebreakers have long sought to enter the Canadian market, but there the Ministry of Defence or the Border Guard has managed to block their activities. Of course, free trade agreements also have a more flexible set of rules and, on the other hand, a greater effect on common standards. Professor Koskenniemi, who has made very commendable and rigorous criticisms of these free trade agreements and, above all, of the deceased TTIP, stated that this is why Finland must suffer for Romania's membership of the EU. Of course, this is reflected in the question put by Mr Modig that Finland is not a developing country whose rule of law is so bad that we cannot be trusted as a contracting partner. But since we are a member of the EU — and, as Mr Arhinmäki said there, the rule of law is also under threat in many countries, and in some countries of south-eastern Europe it has never gone beyond fragility — unfortunately we too have to act in a certain way as part of this whole, and that is why such an investor court has been brought here. Well, now this is the first free trade agreement in which such a mechanism exists. And when the Americans absolutely refused to include such a mechanism in the TTIP, the Canadians gladly agreed and felt that it was also in their own interest that there should be a permanent court rather than arbitration arrangements that were perceived to be very problematic. And now it is a choice between optimism and pessimism to see if this is a viable option. If we are convinced of this in advance, as some are, that it is doomed to failure, of course, the choice is quite clear, but if you want to see whether there is any way forward in such asymmetric trade agreements — which is what the block of countries is always concerned — whether they are feasible, then there is only one way to find out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u206	Mr President! I rose separately to thank Mr Arhinmäki for his work during the previous government. I think that if Vice-President Pekkarinen could speak, he might be able to describe this situation a little more comprehensively. I wasn't here at the time. But even today, Bayer made an investment decision. I will no longer thank Mr Arhinmäki for that, but I would like to say that this is an excellent thing for foreign companies to invest everywhere in Finland. The Chinese are on the move, and we could ask a few questions about this, and there has been a real return of confidence that international cooperation is working. When there are countries such as Canada cooperating and these regulations have been well dealt with, I have not been concerned. What I could be concerned about is, for example, the policy of the United States of America, Trump. That's the exact opposite. There has been a wave of protectionism, and it will be a problem for Finland, Mr Arhinmäki, I believe. That is what we should be concerned about, this development, not that we are working together intelligently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u207	Mr President! As far as shipyards are concerned, I would like to point out that the sulphur directive has also been mentioned as an issue that has significantly helped the Finnish shipbuilding industry to obtain orders, because we are able to make ships that meet the emission limits that entered into force three years ago in more stringent protected marine areas. After all, nearly as strict emission limits will come into force in two years' time in all the seas of the world. Here, too, environmental protection has given us a certain technological advantage, which has also become an economic advantage. There's a couple more points to the dispute settlement procedure. Professor Koskenniemi has certainly appeared in several committees, as well as in the Committee on the Environment. One of the points he has raised, which has not yet been made in this debate, is that this dispute settlement procedure — although it is an improvement on the former arbitration system, which is in many trade agreements — gives a foreign investor greater rights than a domestic investor. In its own opinion, the Committee on the Environment states that mines are often isolated in a country as large as Finland, and if a foreign mining company claims that our company is being discriminated against, then there is little room for the State to claim that there is no discrimination if the company is not satisfied with the environmental permit it receives, for example. In such a case, a foreign investor may take the dispute directly to this international dispute settlement body without first going through domestic legal procedures, which a domestic investor must do. I do not see any justification for the fact that our legal system will become, if the EU's judgment does not overturn this whole dispute resolution model, an element which is alien to our case-law so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u208	Mr President! For my part, I wanted to put an end to this debate by emphasising this very important possible theme, which Mr Heinäluoma has also referred to on a number of occasions. So it is not so much a question of the threat being CETA, it is a question of social welfare and that, if we are ourselves moving public health care into commercial activities. How can we crediblely protect it and isolate it from the free trade agreement? Here in this Treaty — i.e. this report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs — it is stated, quoting the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that ‘The interpretation of the definitions of public services in the field of social and health services in Finland is not clear,and for this reason Finland has entered into an agreement on commitments to social and health services and statutory pension insurance. In addition, Finland has concluded a restriction on the distribution of medicines and retail trade and on the retail monopoly of alcohol. Finland maintains the possibility of changing Finnish legislation in social and health services in the future in public services on the basis of reservations.” Now, if Finland, on its own initiative, unilaterally and completely abandons these commitments, especially in a situation where it is still unclear before the Ministry of Finance gives its opinion to the Audit Committee, whether there is a return from this market economy to social and health services run by public authorities, then all these reservations and locks here will prove to be easy to pick.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u209	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u210	Mr President! The purpose of the government proposal is to make changes to the VAT Act as a result of the so-called voucher directive. The changes are expected to enter into force in accordance with the timetable required by the EU from the beginning of next year. The amendments seek to clarify and harmonise the tax treatment of vouchers at EU level. There are no specific provisions in the VAT Directive for transactions using vouchers. The tax practice has therefore become inconsistent and inconsistent within the EU. Moreover, the national application practice has not been uniform. The increased use of vouchers such as lunch and sports vouchers or prepaid cards and the provision of new and diverse payment services have obscured the difference between vouchers and traditional payment systems. However, it is important to draw the line because of the differences in tax treatment. Mr President! The impact of the new provisions on tax revenues is limited. The return will increase to the extent that transactions related to vouchers considered tax-free become taxable. At the same time, however, the taxable purchaser is entitled to deduct the hidden tax on the service and to reduce the profit. The Committee on Finance has accepted the government's proposal without amendment and the report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u211	Mr President! What's money? Money owes me money. The central bank has the exclusive right to print notes and mint coins. But in addition to this, there has been an almost totally unregulated jungle of various players who could be in debt with such vouchers or with different promises to provide some kind of service against the banknote. Now that this situation has become quite messy, it is not entirely simple to correct it either. During this process, a number of problems of interpretation and clarification have been encountered, but best of all, this has moved forward. Of course, there is no political passion for this, and that is why this report is completely unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u212	The first reading will be presented on the 11th item in the order of business, a proposal to repeal the Act on dog tax. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u213	Mr President! In a way, we now have a enjoyable moment when we are dealing with the repeal of the tax law. Few tax laws in this country are abolished. Now, however, we are abolishing the dog tax law. After all, the dog tax came into force already during the time of the Grand Duchy of Finland and was based on the Imperial Decree of 1894. The current dog tax law, which we are about to repeal, came into force from the beginning of 1980, and the tax recipient has been the municipality. The collection of dog tax became voluntary at the initiative of municipalities in 1991. Since then, one municipality after another has renounced the levying of dog tax, most recently the cities of Helsinki and Tampere, which still collect dog tax in 2016. At the time, the amount of the dog tax in Helsinki was EUR 50 per dog, and it was paid for 6527 dogs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u216	Mr President! Just as Mr Kiviranta, as the chairman of the Tax Section, said, no one could find any basis for this tax, even with good imagination. However, I looked at Wikipedia as much as I wondered why the dog tax was ever set up, and its motivation was that in 1878 a decree was issued in Finland to collect taxes on dogs in exchange for domestic animals who had died from rabies. What was left of the tax after the compensation was used for the other expenses of the municipality. Rabidity may not be an acute problem in Finland’s animal husbandry, but perhaps this examination should be extended to all other taxes and charges that have already lost their true justification in history. And here I would like to see this recorded in the parliamentary record that, when there is often a misunderstanding that the Social Democrats love taxes, we are happy to abolish this tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u217	Mr Ala-Nissilä's point of view on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u218	Mr President! It is important to have this in this context, because I, too, want to escort this dog tax to the grave. — I remember that at the municipal council meeting as a young man a couple of times I have voted on the amount of the dog tax in the municipality, and that was a topic to be discussed. But really the foundation has disappeared here, and when Mr Kiviranta said that it was only in the city of Helsinki that 6000 of them were paid — 60,000 dogs or 6,000 dogs, whichever one — much of them did not pay the tax. So it was a common pleasure that it was not paid for. It was a little difficult to pay technically, and there should be no such taxes either. When the argument has disappeared and there is no fiscal effect, this should have been buried before, Mr President, but good, now that you go to the grave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u219	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u220	Mr President! I'm sorry my performance is a wreck. The reason is that the amendments tabled at first reading did not go forward, so there is no alternative at the moment. The second reason for this: In the first reading and in the referral debate, I criticised this same law because we are about to have a waste directive that will bring about changes to the waste law, and we even heard in committee that there will be changes to the waste law next autumn anyway. So what was the rush to have limited municipal activities in waste management, i.e. to remove from the public sector the opportunities for action such as the one so far to improve human health and environmental protection? This waste directive is supposedly becoming stricter on recycling obligations, and this law, which is now being enacted here in the Finnish Parliament, is taking recycling in the wrong direction — in the opposite direction to the waste directive that will tighten it up. Among other things, the opinion of the Administrative Committee stated jointly that recycling is deteriorating at this point, i.e. by almost 90% already being used in Finland. Illegal landfills are at risk of multiplying. Prices for users, both businesses and private households, are expected to increase as the benefits of investment are also reduced and local government investments are partly wasted, so taxpayers will have to pay for them. The present small operators will be left behind by large companies and the organisation of waste management, especially in sparsely populated areas, will be weakened. And after all this, the government parties believe that the municipalities should be denied the right to produce waste management directly, for example, for schools and social and health care, or, as in all other European countries except Poland, to manage the responsibility of the public authorities for waste management and to sell it to companies with a 20% withdrawal restriction. Thus, in recycling and other public waste management, Finland will move away from the series of other similar countries, the Nordic countries or others, to some other series with Poland. I am very sorry that such a reform is being carried out and that the potential of the municipalities is being destroyed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u221	Mr President! I support Mr Paatero's motion for rejection. Just as Mr Paatero has just explained, since the changes to the articles have not gone through, the only logical option at this stage is to present a disaster, and since this waste law will soon be subject to pressure for change which is independent of us, it is unnecessary and difficult to find any justification for it. In the previous speech, the main problems of this proposal were well described. I myself would just like to highlight the circular economy as one aspect. After all, the circular economy is a situation in which everyone wins. It is our chance to produce our consumer goods resource intensively in accordance with the earth’s carrying capacity. When we do it right, it will win both the environment, the consumer and businesses. What used to be waste for us will continue to be raw material. In order to make the transition to a circular economy as quickly as possible, we should be able to manage these waste streams as comprehensively as possible and as rationally as possible. That is what I consider to be one of the major weaknesses in this proposal that this is going to dissipate the field when, on the contrary, it should be done differently. We know — if we compare it with the recycling rate, which is one step towards making the best use of these waste streams in the future, so that we can get to the point where we are planning out the waste — that in the countries of Europe where public responsibility is high, the recycling rate is also the highest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-09-ps-48.u222	Mr President! I, too, am in favour of this proposal for a shipwreck. The arguments were quite clear in previous speeches. To that end, I would add that no company is forced to use the municipal waste company's services. I believe that the choice of companies that can compete for this waste management will not be reduced but will increase if we do not limit the possibility for the municipal waste company to submit a bid more restrictively than the EU directive allows. On the contrary, for many companies, the situation may be that on the contrary, their choice will be reduced if this government proposal is adopted. Indeed, it is quite possible that the changes to the EU Waste Directive and also the comments made by the EU Commission on the recycling rate in Finland, the level of recovery of waste, will in fact soon lead Finland to move in the opposite direction from what the government is proposing in this proposal.
