ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 23 October 2018. In the debate, Katja Taimela Jari Myllykoski has suggested that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda will be the fifth item. — Minister Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u3	Mr President! The bill on the obligation to distribute biofuels is an essential part of the implementation of our climate policy. It has already been outlined in the Government negotiations, confirmed in the Climate and Energy Strategy, and is also a key element in the implementation of emission reduction measures outside emissions trading, as described in the medium-term climate plan. Now we will continue the line that Finland adopted before 2010 when the EU's emission reduction targets for 2020 were implemented. In Finland it was assumed that biofuels were used twice as much as at EU level. This decision has resulted in a strong development of this sector in Finland, we have world leaders in this area, and now the Government's proposal continues to do so. When it was agreed at EU level in June that the European Union would aim for a 14% share of renewable fuels in transport, the Finnish Government is proposing to achieve a 30% blending share already in 2029 and then, of course, in 2030. That obligation will be tightened every year after the end of the current obligation from 21 onwards, and the 30% level will then gradually be reached. This proposal is likely to provide the necessary investment certainty for those companies with the capacity to produce such fuels, and it is therefore necessary that we now know that timetable and those quantities of fuel needed each year. After all, this market is international, and biocomponents have sometimes been mixed with fuels on the market in Finland far more than the obligation has required, and then again in accordance with this obligation, depending on the world market situation, and certainly similar physical activity will continue to be seen. This is why the flexibility element has been built in, that if in some years there is more mixing than is necessary, then it can be used, those distribution companies will be able to take advantage of this kind of temporal flexibility in the following years. As a new element, the obligation to mix with heating fuels and machinery fuels is also brought much lower — 10 percent, reaching that 2027, from memory. There is also flexibility between the obligation to distribute traffic and the obligation to distribute machinery and heating oil. This obligation to distribute on the fuel side is an important part of the fact that oil-heating economies — the economies in which fuel oil is used, oil boilers — will also be able to reduce their own emissions through this blending obligation. After all, the State has stated that the use of fuel oil in government buildings will end by the end of 2025. This is part of the climate plan. Mr President! With things like this and presentations, we are now going to cut emissions from transport at a rapid rate. In Finland, too, much has been discussed about the fact that, when electronic transport is potentially even more low-emission if electricity has been produced with renewable energy, why so strongly for biofuels? The answer is simple: we have almost 3 million cars in circulation, and the only way to reduce emissions from these existing cars is by using that pump to refuel low-emission fuel. This is in no way a war against the fact that, at the same time, the government is strongly promoting the take-off of electronic transport. We have procurement support, we have infrastructure building support, and we are looking for that 250,000 electric cars in 2030, over and above. Of course, a breakthrough in the promotion of electric cars will take place when those cars are about the same price to the consumer as internal combustion cars, and that will of course depend on technological developments. With these provisions, emissions from road transport will be reduced at a rapid pace. This is a package of measures, where there are other sections which have been well prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and decided by Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u4	All right, looks like there's a need for answers here. Let's take Mr. Kiuru Pauli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u5	Madam President! Thank you, Minister. On a good presentation to the brick block and on the fact that you have also raised these environmental issues with regard to transport. This obligation to mix is something that is close in Finland. We have companies and know-how in that regard, and it is certainly good that this issue is being taken forward. It is advisable to favour domestic industry, domestic jobs and export opportunities, possibly. You mentioned electric motoring, and it really feels like there is a bit of a bottleneck. On the other hand, there would be a desire to buy an electric car, but there is little courage to get one, because there may not be as many plugs as is hoped for, and then, of course, there is this question of price. The budget allocates a small amount of money to build plugs for or assist with the housing company. What do you think the most important thing — taking two or three main points — is to make electric cars move forward very quickly, at least the 250,000?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u6	Mr President! This government proposal is a good one. It is based on the guidelines adopted by the parliamentary working group, and in your mind this is in line with that parliamentary will. Of course, other options come to the question. For example, the use of bioethanol in the series of amendments costs only EUR 380, plus a job of 100 to 20. You turn a gas truck into an ethanol truck, it'll cost you 500 euros. After that, you'll be fueling up the E85, which is now being distributed at quite a few gas stations. How does the Minister see a lot of talk about car electrification, but could people with limited resources use these other alternatives — biogas, ethanol — that would bring the same result as electric cars?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u7	Madam President! After all, the emission reduction targets in the burden-sharing sector are very high for Finland, and now we see the consequences that prices are rising in many sectors. When different impact assessments and others have been evaluated, and yet there are about 200,000 oil-heated detached houses in Finland and many of them are owned by deprived, pensioners and lonely women. These increases in prices, which come into heating oil and others, are really doing a lot of damage to their economy. Now that more than 40 percent of the income is spent on housing costs, it would be good to compensate somehow for some of the subsidies to be able to get better heating systems. Then, for traffic too, if this motion goes through, Of course, customs should be given the right to check cars coming from other EU countries for cabotage. If they do not have such emission targets
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u8	Mr President! The purpose of the government's proposal is certainly good, but if we think that global warming of one and a half degrees in climate change must be avoided, it is not enough, of course, to have 30% of transport fuel biofuels and 70% of fossil fuel in 2029. Surely the aim must be to stop using fossil fuels, and we know that sustainable biofuels are not enough for the whole of transport. The advantage must lie in other non-emission-free traffic, and there is talk of electrification of car traffic and also of increasing the use of biogas. The Greens have been of the opinion that biofuels are needed, but they are primarily needed for uses where there are no alternatives, and they talk about heavy traffic, including shipping and air transport. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's position on how biofuels will be sufficient if the obligation to mix all transport is raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u9	Madam President! The whole world is moving towards electronic transport at a high speed. That is what the Minister referred to, and the question is, in a way, whether we have enough ambition or enthusiasm to go in that direction or whether we are more focused on blending biofuels with diesel. After all, even the government has a hard drive — in 2045 completely carbon-neutral transport — and I understand that this mixing is such an intermediate emission reduction target, because we still have so many internal combustion engines. I think this is a big question. The second is that heating and working machinery should be completely transferred to other sources of energy — heating houses to heat pumps, geothermal heat, various intelligent systems such as the recovery of the heat from the water supply, and the solutions of the agricultural circular economy should be tightened up in the machinery. Somehow it seems that the 10% requirement in this respect does not encourage these solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u10	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. The government’s goal of mixing up the obligation, 30%, is quite challenging. The question therefore arises as to the Minister's view of the form or the raw materials in which these blending products will be obtained overall, because both heating, transport and machinery require large quantities of liquid fuels and then it is essential to have all these raw materials from where they come from and how much additional investment is needed in society in the development of new production facilities. A significant increase in the number of electric cars is also a big issue, and in any of the places mentioned just now, we need more and more electricity. Are our current electricity systems, then, sufficient, and if not, where will more electricity be made?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u11	Irade the Talman! After all, an internal combustion engine is an internal combustion engine, even if it is fried in vegetable oil, i.e. more essential than what is being burned would be to burn as little as possible so that electric traffic can be achieved as quickly as possible. Already today, a significant proportion of the world's biofuels are imported into the Nordic countries, and the resources are quite limited. I would like to ask the Minister: how have you assessed the adequacy of resources if fuel consumption is not radically calculated? If such a 30% obligation were to apply to the whole of Europe, what amounts would it then mean? I would also like to ask: there are differences in biofuels, their climate impact is significantly different depending on where they are made and how they are made. Do you have any question as to whether such matters should have been taken into account here as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u12	Madam President! The Minister is probably familiar with the debate on biofuels, where there has been quite a lot of criticism of their overall ecological impact. What kind of state aid do you think this whole sector will need and can you describe your own view of how environmentally sound current biofuel production is?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u13	Mr President! First of all, in 2007 the bio-share was zero in Finland. At that time, Finland decided to take a very open-minded, very long step, and we made a more progressive decision than any other country in the European Union. For us, this 2020 obligation, 20%, which is currently being fulfilled, is the largest in Europe. Why did they do this? Well, because this is by far the fastest way to clean up transport emissions. Germany aims to ensure that 50% of the cars registered in 2030 are electric cars. In practice, this means that in 2030 only 15 to 20 % of the total German fleet will be electric cars. This way we can move much faster. As far as this raw material is concerned and its adequacy is concerned, for example, the professor: Ollikainen has spoken a little like in a questionable way about this, and I have understood and this morning made sure that he does not mean the secondarys. When the wood is brought to the processing site and becomes these side streams — chews, peels, everything else — the use of it as biofuels is justified, and now this amount,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u14	Mr President! Of course, this proposal is a partial solution to the fact that our emission reduction targets can be supported. It doesn't solve everything. The Government proposal is very well prepared and is in line with the energy and climate strategy that has also been discussed here in Parliament and adopted by a large majority. However, Parliament also drew attention to the fact that this obligation to mix, even though it is introduced gradually, is quite challenging and, above all, to the costs to industry and consumers as a result. These are some of the explanations that have been made, but I think we need more. This electrification of transport is very important, and it is true that, of course, the arrival of electric cars will certainly require much more before it becomes a major factor, but for that we need to electrify the transport structure. Hullwood should not be used for incineration, but for refining and bioenergy should be used primarily for waste and side streams. The importance of the circular economy globally will be greater than the importance of the bioeconomy, and we should also play an important role in energy policy. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u15	Madam President! Increasing the blending obligation is important not only in abandoning fossil fuels, but also in increasing the potential of the bioeconomy. Just as the Minister has said here, it is also extremely important to give these investments a certain degree of certainty. In EU policy on these biofuels, the problem is that some countries have invested heavily in first-generation biofuels and then we have second- and third-generation fuels, and I must say that the political guidelines of some countries, among other things, in the definition of these coefficients, are based more on the fact that their industries have invested heavily in the first generation, and there are not much of a burden on climate objectives or anything else, but rather on the desire to have their own industry supported by these policies, and this is, of course, regrettable. Here those who have particularly raised the issue of electric cars must remember that that is the key to how electricity is produced, how environmentally friendly and climate-friendly it is. Of the electricity produced with carbon power, climate-friendlyness is a long way off. And no one, I guess.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u16	Mr President! I believe that this government proposal is a necessary law, and I justify it on two points. Firstly, we are partly at the mercy of the international car industry. Finns buy the cars produced by the global car industry, and we cannot, therefore, alone influence how fast and how many electric cars come into the market at the price of the car, so that they can be purchased. Secondly, electric cars in Finland will not become popular very quickly unless there are cheap models and models that can drive here in our country of long distances, and in fact not even then, even if they do, because we know the age of the Finnish car fleet and that not many Finns can afford to buy a new car. That is why, unfortunately, this takes a long time and is needed for such interim solutions, as here is well-founded. It is only at this end that I want to wonder that electric heating in houses seems to destroy the world, but electric cars save the world, and that is why I agree with Mrs Essayah's idea,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u17	Madam President! Inspired by Mr Pekkarinen, I would also like to return to the debate what bio-mixes we have. We have pine oil in the pulp industry, of which, through the Ministry of Delivery, Customs has made a statement that it is waste and stars and that it is economically viable to burn it on top of a piston, which is completely absurd. As a high-refined raw material supported, it works significantly better in the national economy. I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of view do you have of what the EU will decide with regard to this double counting, specifically for pine oil?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u18	Mr President! I am a little puzzled by these very unrealistic statements, which have come to some extent from the point of view of the left-wing opposition in particular. At first, I was very pleased when Mrs Wallin put forward a very sensible idea of changing petrol-powered cars to drink with a low-cost change. It could work. It could make a lot of low-income cars more environmentally friendly. But for some it is not enough: then there is a statement from both the Greens and the Left that we should move on to electric cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u21	Mr President! I will continue with that last speech. The electric car is so energy-efficient that you have to invest more in it. We need a charging network and we also need the abolition of car and vehicle taxes to steer electric cars. But it is an unreasonably far-reaching proposal of this present biofuel blend law, given that by 2030 we have to get rid of fossil fuel, oil, so this blending obligation does not drive in that direction to this extent. And if we are talking about raw materials, for example palm oil or excessive logging is neither ecological nor climate-friendly. Mr President! I would like to ask one more question about the promotion of biogas. It is an ecological option that is affordable for every consumer and also supports Finland’s countryside and its profitability. What is the government doing to promote biogas drive?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u22	Mr President! Our line that biofuels are used in Finland in an exemplary and ambitious way compared to fossil fuels is excellent. Emissions from traffic are one of the biggest threats to the climate in Finland, so this Government proposal will reduce emissions from traffic a great deal. Mr President! That was where Congressman Kiuru pointed out the promotion of electric motoring. People have also become increasingly interested in e - bikes and have acquired e - bikes. Cycling, electric or especially without, would also affect public health. How does the government support cycling? Mr Ihalainen has already mentioned here that we also have raw materials for those electric accumulators, which are entirely domestic production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u23	Madam President! It is good to remember in this debate on bioenergy that Finnish wood obviously has millions of uses, and that we also have wood in our forests that is not suitable for processing as raw material at all. Why not use it to produce bio-based oils and various gasoline additives? It is a sort of stupidity that we leave the opportunity untapped, even if nature allows us to do so. Take advantage of this process by which wood is produced in the forest in Finland at an ever-increasing rate. It does not make any sense that we are now investing enormously in electric cars, because the car you own, ladies and gentlemen, or any Finn, let it be a little older... It is quite the right line to mix as much bio-division as possible with fuel. In Brazil today we drive cars that use pure ethanol. A very good idea and works very well, and I think it would work in Finland as well. You might want to make some sense. It's not a good idea to hit the wall with the gas on the bottom.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u24	Let us take four responses at this stage and then the Minister's response for the reasons of the Minister's timetable. These are Suutari, Rantakangas, Niikko and Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u25	Mr President! Reaching 30% according to the proposal is challenging, but are there other options? Consider the fact that in Norway last month, electric cars or hybrid cars accounted for half of the cars sold. In Finland, we have an excellent tool for this, namely our vehicle and car taxation, which could, at a faster pace, make it possible to make it cheaper to purchase electric cars or hybrid cars. Of course, the problem at the moment is availability: their delivery times are long, and we can only have them in six months or later. But if you think about it by 2030, the cumulative amount of 250,000 cars would be very much faster to reach, and even more so. Is this possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u26	Mr President! This bill also shows that the Sipilä government is not just talking, but making and setting ambitious goals and responding to these future challenges. Here on the Green side, the importance of this electric car has been emphasised, but I have to return to the old subject. It seems that green biofuels are not allowed, forests are not to be cut, hydropower is not used, wind power is not in all respects land and nuclear power. You may ask how this growing demand for electricity can be handled. How can it be dealt with?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u29	Madam President! They've been looking for an environmental winner for the future in electric cars. In reality, electric cars are certainly ecological in some respects, but they are far from being manufactured. According to some estimates, there are well over 100,000 kilometres of their use before electric cars can even achieve the same emissions as diesel cars with renewable energy in the tank. In that sense, if we electrify all roads with these electric cars, it does not necessarily bring them back in a very short time, hardly in decades. But one thing I want to ask the Minister is to promote the use of biofuels, for example for Neste Oil. They have been making very good jet fuel from these recycled materials for years, as the Minister knows, but access to the market is not possible because it is too expensive. How can we, in a way, prevent this very much climate-polluting air transport policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u30	Then there is Mr Halmemenpää, and then there is the minister who has to go out of the Chamber sometimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u31	Mr President! Of course, when it comes to electricity generation, it is good to remember that electricity can be produced with a wide range of alternatives, which are clean technologies, renewable energy technologies, compared to the way in which fossil fuels can be produced, with far fewer alternatives. Biofuels, sustainable ones, are needed. Our view has been that it would be worthwhile to save them mainly on modes where there are little other propulsion options, such as heavy traffic. By the way, on Tuesday, the International Energy Agency published its recommendation on Finland's energy policy, and the sustainability of bioenergy was also raised and it was stated that the sources of bioenergy should be extended from present, mainly forest-based biomass to other parts of the world. But the fact is that if emissions reductions are to be achieved, passenger transport must be electrified and the use of biogas must be promoted much more strongly than the government's objectives. In biogas, methane, which is also a greenhouse gas, would otherwise be released into the atmosphere to decompose its organic material if it were not recovered in the biogas plant. It is, as it were, carbon neutral or greenhouse gas neutral in that respect, but the atmosphere does not know whether carbon dioxide comes from a fossil or, for example, from a forest-based source.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u32	And then the minister, three minutes, is that enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u33	Mr President! Thank you very much for your excellent contributions. One subject at a time I will address a few of the questions that have been raised by a number of people. Let us take the cost first, because of course we must make sure that people can afford it. The estimate of this fuel blending obligation is that, when fully used, it will increase the price of fuels by less than 10 cents per litre. If you see how much the price of fossil fuel has varied over the past year, the range of the pump is more than 15 cents, i.e. it is allowed to be proportionate to how significant the cost change is. In the case of heating fuel oil, which was also mentioned here, the increase pressure of one cent is somewhat lower, perhaps speaking of 5 cents rather than 10 cents, so that, with an annual consumption of 2000 litres, it brings a cost of between EUR 80 and EUR 100 to the oil heater. In fact, in the summer we raised the income limits for repairs, so that, for example, low-income pensioners have the opportunity to do these renovations and then replace the old oil boiler with, for example, geothermal solutions. Many representatives here paid attention to sustainability. In fact, at the moment — Mr Pekkarinen rightly stated the volume we have — the obligation to mix requires about 800,000 tonnes of biofuels in Finland. That, of course, depends on how much transport we have overall and what the share of electricity is. Current production is quite close to this, i.e. by adding to current production a couple of known plans, we basically already have this potential for production. Of course, biofuels are currently being exported from Finland to other markets, i.e. not everything ends up on the Finnish market, but most of the biofuels sold and produced in Finland are based on waste and residues. This is the case for Neste, both for transport and for substances that may be produced for air transport. Then came this question of pine oil. Pine oil is also a raw material used in the chemical industry, but, on the other hand, its production volumes worldwide mean that as a by-product of the pulp industry there is still so much competition between fuel use and other processing. For this confrontation, electricity or biofuels: both are needed, but they can be introduced with different time horizons. And this statement by Mrs Wallin — and also on behalf of biogas trucking — that it is relatively affordable to move an internal combustion engine to either ethanol or biogas, is supported by the state by supporting the purchase of the series of changes. It is an inexpensive way of reducing emissions from own transport. Then, of course, to this sustainability, how the sustainability criteria are met and what the emission reduction is. Let us assume that these are all substances that comply with the sustainability requirements of the EU Renewable Energy Directive, which is used in Finland, and that at present requires a reduction of at least 60% in emissions compared to fossils, at least 65% in the future. In other words, these are really only made of substances that genuinely reduce CO2 emissions. By the way, that country report from the IEA, which was published yesterday, has rarely received such incense from energy policy as this international report on us all in all. And if we are thinking about bioenergy, perhaps what is descriptive is that, together with IEA Director General Fatih Birol, a couple of weeks ago, we wrote in international publications specifically about the importance of bioenergy. Finland is considered a model country for bioenergy in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u34	Let us take a few more comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u35	Mr President! The most important thing is, of course, now to reflect on the great objective we have in reducing CO2 emissions as required by the IPCC report less than two weeks ago, and this issue must also be seen against that background. The obligation to mix is a good transitional solution, but it is necessary to consider how long that transitional period will be. We must also have a view that normal transport is mainly electrified and then, indeed, biofuels are left in heavy traffic and air transport. We must also ensure that biodiversity is preserved and that the carbon sequestration capacity of forests is maintained at this intermediate stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u37	Let's just stay a minute, and we'll get as fast as we can...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u38	Madam President! I think that Finland has been innovative, and we already have completed concepts, and I am sure this new obligation to mix will bring more jobs that we need in Finland. This is also of exceptional importance from the point of view of employment. The fact that this transport mix obligation is now 30% but lower for machinery and heating oil is certainly a well-founded point of view. This is where the European Union's bio-strategy report came in the past and strongly encourages the construction of more bio-installations, which is something that has also been taken into account in the European Union. Finland has made good progress in the construction of bio-refineries, but more is needed quite clearly. When I am in favour of increasing the use of biogas, I am also raising the question of whether the government has been wondering whether it is possible to meet in this biogas on the power tax side. However, this is for the countryside and agriculture
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u39	Madam President! Biofuels are a good way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport, but biofuels and hybrids are certainly only an intermediate step towards electronic transport. Volvo, for example, has already decided that in 2019 all their cars are electric or hybrids and stop developing petrol and diesel cars at the same time. We have a forerunner in this field of biofuels, Neste, who has done a good job, but we must remember that biofuels can disappear to electrification soon. It is estimated that within about five years electric cars will already be at the same price as conventional cars. But our problem is precisely the old car fleet and its renewal must be promoted, and the issue of car tax is always at the heart of this. We are currently bringing cars to Finland that only make things worse for us, and measures are urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u40	Mr President! If we cannot afford something as humans and nations, the earth’s temperature will rise by more than one and a half degrees. Its economic and human costs will be enormous. Finland is committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and as part of this agreement, the objectives are that our climate policy is ambitious and that warming can be halted to one and a half degrees, and within this, reducing emissions from transport is an important issue. It is clear that incinerators in passenger transport do not have a future, but the future lies in electronic transport. Then again, on the heavy-duty side of transport, there is certainly room for biofuels and they need to be further developed. I would have asked the Minister what plans are being made to reduce the overall emissions of transport and switch to electronic transport, but unfortunately the Minister was forced to leave the Chamber for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u41	Let us take six more and then go to the list of speakers until the Minister returns. Multala, Frosty, Maijala, Eestilä, Wall and Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u42	Mr President! It is quite true that looking a little further into the future, the electrification of transport is the direction to which we are certainly going. However, a great deal of means is needed, all possible means, and this is one of the other ways in which the current car fleet is already reducing emissions. And that is absolutely essential, because it is unrealistic to think that everyone would be ready right now and be able to switch to a new car, even if electric cars were to be cheaper than internal combustion cars, so for example, the fact that the government is currently investing in the supply of electric cars is important. That is certainly not enough, however, and other incentives are also needed. Biogas conversion aid, on the other hand, is something that I am sure could quickly turn the current fleet of cars into zero emissions, and I would like this method to become more common. I believe that there is also a great deal here that there could be more knowledge, because there has not been much talk about this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u43	Madam President! I believe that this government proposal to increase the obligations is the only realistic option in this situation when we need to do something quickly and something where we can all be equally involved. We have cars of different ages, different types of cars for every close family, and this blending obligation makes it possible for each of us to do our part in climate change. This is a sensible, reasonable climate policy that needs to move forward. There has been a great deal of talk here about electric cars, and then we also need to talk about the battery industry and the extractive industry. If all of these are positive things, as is the industrial issue of Harjavalta, then of course we can take electrification forward, but it is not very realistic to think that in ten years we will be able to electrify the entire fleet of cars, as we have been told here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u44	Mr President! If the Minister had been still there, I would have thanked him, first of all, for once again taking a step forward in these areas of environment and energy. But then I would also have asked a question, which is the next step. We are really looking forward to what will be done next. In other words, Finland is growing all over the country full of green. Finland is a green country: we have land full of forests, the fields are green, there is green everywhere. As we know, it is only the green that binds coal, and when the green in the ground binds coal, that is why it is really important that this greenness should also be used so that we can continue to make more binding green. I would also have asked: how is this green intended to be used to create a new growth space in such a way that, in the future, all green will no longer give up carbon in the air?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u45	Madam President! In Central Europe, there is talk of energy poverty and pension poverty. It may be that one day these topics of discussion in Finland will be raised more strongly, as pensioners are known to be suffering from higher housing costs and higher healthcare costs. Now that we are banned from coal and we are banned from peat and then we are trying to add biofuels to these fuels, we will certainly have to assess tax policy so that the bill will not be too large through heating and fuels. I think this is part of the overall package. We are thinking about these electric cars, and everyone here seems to think that they are becoming more common, but not in Finland, and I agree with Mr Heinonen that we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that Finland is a graveyard for old cars because of our own tax policy. The estimate at the moment is that old cars
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u46	Mr President! 30.8.2017 The Parliamentary Transport Working Party presented a proposal to halve emissions, and one of the options was to increase this blending obligation to 30%, which means that we have unanimously submitted such a proposal to Parliament. That's why this government proposal is good. It will implement this proposal made by the parliamentary working party. This is Eestilä and Myllykoski, who were members of this parliamentary working group. But then when it comes to increasing electric cars, I looked at Fingrid's website, what is the current state of the electricity grid in Finland. Our consumption is over 10,000 megawatts, and 2443 megawatts are imported from it, i.e. two nuclear power plants are currently imported into Finland. Parliament must be responsible in that sense that when it decides to increase the use of electricity in transport, for example, we must also be able to produce more electricity nationally. Therefore, nuclear solutions
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u47	Mr President! Mr Marin said above that we cannot afford to see the climate warm up by 1.5 degrees. Certainly it is, but it does seem that no matter what we do, this will happen. The second question is that, especially in the Arctic, global warming will be even stronger. This means that if we are going to have a strong electrification of traffic, as we must, in order to try to limit this global warming, we must not only accept what Mrs Wall has just said very well here, but also the fact that we also allow — within the limits of our nature and water — the mines that produce the minerals necessary for battery technology in Finland. The second thing is this big tax reform, which has also been raised here by Mr Eestilä. This is necessary because taxes on liquid fuels in transport collapse if electric cars are to be driven, and if we want to accelerate the buying of new cars, then we also need to change our vehicle taxation. So this will certainly be the big change we will have in the years to come, and that will be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u48	Let us take two more comments and then try to start with the list of speakers: Mrs Myllykoski and Mr Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u49	Madam President! I must agree with Mrs Wallin that when we talk here about electrification, we should at the same time have a debate on how much electrification in transport will increase the need for electricity. The speech should counterbalance the way all the electricity is produced. Transport, of course, does not have to be part of it from the demand for electricity generation: production does not have to be round-the-clock, but we can produce electricity with renewable forms, thanks to charging technology and the battery industry. But in any case, we need to consider how we produce its electricity. Don't close your eyes. But in particular, I am pleased by hundreds of people,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u50	Let us take Mr Järvinen and then, so that the Minister can breathe a little, one speech, that is, Mr Arhinmäki is preparing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u51	Madam President! When we look here at how to make electricity supply sufficient for motoring and transport, when there are so many other targets, this issue is essential. But in practice the situation at the moment is that we waste electricity on things where it is not necessary or necessary at all. For example, we currently have 700,000 electric homes in Finland — 700,000, and a large proportion of these homeowners would like to switch to a more environmentally friendly alternative. With a model that would reduce the cost of setting up, over time, they would be able to pay back their investments with the difference in price, all would benefit, create countless jobs, improve the condition of their dwellings and thank the climate. To this end, I hope the Minister will give us an answer as to how this will be promoted so that we can turn the electricity-fired houses into something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u52	Well, and on purpose I have held a long debate because everyone who asked is allowed to speak. — Then Mr Arhinmäki, on the list of speakers. Then let's go to the next thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u53	Madam President! Here, I think, in the debate, some individual representatives have made a strange contrast between the obligation to mix and the electrification of transport. From the assembly to the Left Alliance and from the centre to the Greens, it has been pointed out that there is a need for more and more electric cars in the future, for rail to operate on electricity. But this doesn't happen overnight. We cannot think that our entire transport has been electrified in five to ten years. That is why this obligation to mix is for those who cannot do it immediately. That's what we need. I therefore wonder, for example, what Mr Rantakanka and Mr Mäkelä have said, in which they somehow strongly attacked the important objective that, while taking care of this confusion obligation, we should be more ambitious in moving towards electrified transport. The second question is, of course, that when not only Finland but the whole world moves towards electrified transport, then we have to think about it when more electricity is consumed in a given region, how we can reduce electricity consumption in other regions. Still, we consume electricity in vain. It is not the case that all electricity that is now consumed must continue to be consumed in the same way, but that we must act more rationally. These are big questions because we must — and must — pursue and achieve the IPCC objective of not warming up to more than one and a half degrees. Especially in the northern regions, that warming is much greater, and the comforting thing is that if we do everything we can, then we still have a chance and there is a future. Madam President! The question then comes not just about transport, but about heating — how we can be more environmentally friendly, more climate-friendly. Once again, the low-income people mentioned here may not be able to make that investment directly if it is not supported by various forms. This is absolutely essential when we take steps forward. Madam President! I would like to raise one more point which I think is absolutely essential on this issue. It is that this government proposal also states that, if biofuels are made from forest-based raw materials, the proposal can have negative effects on climate change mitigation. Of course, that is totally unacceptable, and that is why the sustainability criteria for liquid biofuels should also be laid down in this law. Biofuel production must not undermine climate objectives or biodiversity. At least that means we shouldn't use the forest in the tank.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u54	Thank you. — Let us take Mr Kulmala here. Then all of you who have asked for either the floor or the reply have once had the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u55	Madam President! The proposal proposes a law on the promotion of the use of biofuel oil. A new obligation is introduced for light fuel oil distributors to replace part of light fuel oil intended for heating, working machinery and stationary engines with biofuel oil from 2021 onwards. This obligation would gradually increase from 3% in the beginning to 10% in 2028. A strengthened distribution obligation together with other targets set in the Energy and Climate Strategy will allow a 50% reduction in emissions in transport in 2030. Increasing the distribution obligation is therefore an important means of reducing emissions from the existing car fleet, as we have said in several speeches today. It is clear that the obligation to distribute will lead to some increase in fuel costs. Direct price change in fuel mix will not be very great after taxes in 2030. Examined by income category, household costs increase from 0.09 per cent to 0.17 per cent as income increases. If you look at motorised households alone, the impact will be up to 0.5% in the lowest income category — this will of course double if there are two vehicles in the economy that have to travel to work. Comparing households in rural and urban areas shows that rising fuel prices cause the greatest cost increase, i.e. 0.21% for households in sparsely populated rural areas. According to the proposal, agriculture will have the greatest impact on cereal cultivation, where costs will increase by around 0.5% in 2030 in terms of the average price forecast. In other words, once again farmers in rural areas pay more for their lives and for the work they do. Other plant production also has an impact of more than 0.3%, while other agricultural operators have a lower impact, an increase of around 0.2% in costs. Mr President! I do not think that this proposal is bad, even if it slightly increases our costs. However, the distribution obligation is estimated to reduce the excise revenue of fuels in the target scenario by EUR 124 million in 2030. That's quite a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u56	The debate and proceedings are suspended at this stage. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u57	We will now resume the debate on the 4th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u58	Madam President! This use of domestic bio-based oils as a bio-division of fuels is an extremely important issue for Finland, and it is quite impossible for me to understand the debate that has recently taken place on the production of bio-based fuels in Finland. Of course, wood must be accepted as a raw material by all means, including in the manufacture of these fractions. We Finns are a wood people, we have a huge forest reserve, and it has been mentioned ten times in this Chamber that carbon sinks are supposed to be reduced. That's not true. It is extremely offensive to forest scientists for over 100 years when opinions are expressed here that, according to the latest studies, carbon sinks are shrinking or carbon storage is decreasing. That's not true. There are clear, accurate measurements for more than a hundred years. After more than 50 years of wars, the stock of wood in Finland has doubled considerably, as has the growth of forests, which has doubled annually since the wars, also doubled significantly each year. So these figures prove that we ourselves have managed our forests in order to be able to use them to raise the standard of living of Finns and, above all, to manage a sensible climate policy. It is clear that peat is still a huge resource for us. Religious, manic opposition that peat must not be used for anything is, in my view, an absurd argument. Peat contains properties that no other material has. It is a great breeding ground for a variety of plants, and in the future — when it binds a huge amount of water, retains very well the nutrients and gives a plant disease-free breeding ground to the new plants that are grown in gardens, and then, after it has been used up, it is by no means hazardous waste, but can be taken into the field after composting, even if it improves the growth properties of the field — it is in the present world, where food is going to be a crying shortage, an excellent material. The same applies to the manufacture of different new products. In the next few years, peat will be made technical coal, for example for the production of carbon fibre, for the dyeing of printing ink and for many other substances as additives, which will guarantee excellent quality. Among other things, this carbon black has been used and used in the future. At present, this material is made either from crude oil or coal. It is also climate management that we are thereby reducing the use of fossil substances. Then, if peat is burned, it gives better recovery in power plants, both from the point of view of heat and electricity generation, that is, climate emissions are reduced when the particles burn away. So, Madam President, at the end of the day, I hope that reason will come to this debate and that the Finnish perspective will win because it is the only and only option for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u59	Madam President! After all, this bill is very important when the fuel distribution obligation in Finland will be tightened and the target is quite ambitious. Of course, Sweden, for example, has had a debate on the obligation to distribute a renewable share of up to 50 % to 60 %. It is, of course, regrettable that this bill will only come at this stage in the parliamentary term, but it is good that it has finally arrived at our hearing. In this Chamber, of course, there has been quite a lot of discussion about climate issues and the adequacy of wood chips and the adequacy of wood. At the moment, the situation is often that there is no use for these side streams, and it is only a good thing if we have more markets for them. Of course, we must also praise the former Minister for Economic Affairs who has moved to Finland for the first time, Mauri Pekkar, and it is true that it is ambitious and progressive if you look at California, which is probably one of the most advanced states in the United States and which has very ambitious mixing obligations in public transport. It's an area that I think is actually one of Neste's biggest customers. At the time, when these began to be done by Vanhanen's second government, political decisions were able to create a market at the time when it was known that emissions had to be drastically reduced and the means were being considered, so the contribution of the political decision-makers has been very significant, especially the contribution of the central political decision-makers I mentioned. But we must also remember that, at EU level, this is on the basis of the Commission at the present time and the distribution obligation will come, but it is not at all as ambitious as Finland or Sweden has planned. As I recall, around 20 EU countries have such a distribution obligation. In conclusion, perhaps I should like to say to this general climate debate: Finland will not be able to reduce the use of fossil fuels at all by reducing the use of our renewable resources. Of course, if we reduce activity, it will also reduce our emissions, but it will not solve this problem, but first and foremost we need to get rid of fossil fuels as soon as possible, remove Finland from oil, coal and gas, and bring it to the world as well. We have great innovations in that, and of course our forest resources do not play a very small role in what is renewable not only from the side streams of forests, but also from the forests themselves: apartment houses as well as clothing fibers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u60	Mr President! Indeed, we have been given huge resources in this country. Green gold is truly our gold. The enormous potential for further use of forests in this Chamber has been questioned in every way possible — for example, the Greens' speeches that no form of energy should be increased, that nuclear power should not be used, that forests should not be cut down, that peat should not be used, that almost nothing should be done. Well, then, what do we consider this nation to be a civilized state and a state of living — a state in which man thrives and where it is good to live? And it is worth remembering this in the late days of October that that cold winter can be the next winter. If it is between 35 and 40 degrees below zero, then CHP power, for example, is an excellent solution for Finnish energy production. And just now, when we were looking at these electricity statistics with a politician I appreciated, how, at the moment, 2,500 megas of electricity is coming into this country every minute, right now, we Finns should now start waking up to the truth that we ourselves have to produce our own electricity, our own heat and, above all, our natural resources to produce the products that maintain this standard of living. Our fathers and mothers in the forests and in the fields did not work in vain because they would have let this land lie on their own. We have grown a great educational state in this country by farming the land and managing the forest, and now there are voices on the left side of the hall all the time that open fellings should be banned, fellings should be restricted, and then by doing so we should not use this huge potential for growth of nature that we have been given. I cannot understand this kind of speech when it is used to pursue its own political objectives in order to make the use of forests more difficult, to stop using peat and to make all other energy production difficult. Is that the Finnish solution to maintaining the standard of living? I think that such speeches are irresponsible and I do not think they fit in the mouth of a responsible politician at all. I hope, Mr President, that this issue will be taken seriously. If you look at the electricity generation figure at the moment, imagine if we currently had 35 degrees below zero and a tiny sea breeze would come from that sea. If we do not have these energy reserves of our own, then what is the situation in which we heat these houses and maintain production? There is a need everywhere for better production, better quality products, cutting edge products, better cars, better and better metal products. What does it take to produce them? They need good raw materials, know-how and electricity to produce them. What, then, is it produced from? Mr President! I've been spinning this equation in my head for the last few hours of the night. I almost know that using Finnish natural resources in a rational way we do it, and by the way we have enough skills to do it. It's just about attitudes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u61	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Environment Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u62	Mr President! If just 30 seconds on the previous subject: Mr Arhinmäki's speech was a good one, but we must remind you that we have European Union legislation in force and EU legislation sets these sustainability criteria for liquid fuels, which will require a reduction of at least 65%. In other words, sustainability is guaranteed on the biofuel side. But now, Mr President, we are dealing with a law that will end the use of coal in the production of energy in Finland. Since about 95 C.E., there has been a debate in Finland that coal should be abandoned, stopped or banned. Now we have a government proposal that will make all these speeches true. The use of hard coal in Finland will stop on 1 May 2029 if the Parliament blesses this proposal. Now that there has been a debate on the use of coal, others have felt that the timetable should be speeded up. After all, we have a government decision to facilitate this decision for the cities and companies that will give up the use of coal by the end of 25, in such a way that the government has promised to support compensatory investments. This would be through energy subsidies, half of which would have been allocated to combined electricity and heat production, half to other technologies for substituting investments. It is precisely this need for compensatory investment that is, in fact, the key to why such a carbon ban is now being introduced into the legislation. This ban now sets the deadline for all operators to know by which time the investments to replace coal installations will have to be ready. When it comes to large investments, large institutions, their planning takes time, their authorisation takes time, and their construction takes time. That's why we need to put that tailboard on now. It is time for the actors to take action to give up coal. Here is also the big difference between peat — and it has also been suggested in the debate that why should not peat be banned — that peat is subject to emissions trading control and is targeted in such a way that when peat is used in the same plants where wood chips are burned, each year or every month or almost every day can be adjusted for the ratio of how much renewable non-emission forest chips and how much peat is applied. Consequently, emissions trading control directly affects the driving of existing power plants. Substitution investments are not necessarily needed because emissions trading is the primary instrument. This is the big difference between coal and coal. The issues of security of supply have also been raised in the discussions. Of course, for exceptional circumstances, this legislation has its own articles, which will then ensure the smooth functioning of society, security of supply in different situations of problem. Mr President! There's not much else to say. I hope that Parliament will deal with this in a swift manner and that the debate that has taken place for decades will be concluded. This is perhaps the largest single decision on energy and climate policy. Hard coal is still widely used in Finland. Although in electricity production it accounts for less than 10 per cent, in district heat production coal accounts for about a quarter. So it's not a trivial matter, it's a very big decision. And, of course, the tax proposals for next year on this same subject, which will increase the taxation of coal, slightly loosen the gas and slightly tighten the taxation of peat. All these legislative proposals, the tax changes that have been discussed today, aim at moving Finland as quickly as possible away from fossil fuels to renewable clean energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u63	Then a few moments of the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u64	Madam President! As far as the reduction of coal is concerned, we want to give all our support and sparring to the government. This is a great goal. This will certainly be a painful journey in part, but the aim is absolutely important and clear, and, as I said, we want to give all our support to this issue and even speed up the process. As far as decisions on peat are concerned, it is worth remembering that the harmfulness of peat cannot be washed away by emission trading decisions or political decisions, but knowledge and understanding of its harmfulness are always biology, science, and it cannot be washed away by any common agreement. With regard to peat, we would very much have liked the government to have been able to tighten up tax practices. It's getting a little tighter now, but it's still the end of the line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u65	Mr President! This proposal is particularly worrying and problematic in terms of its impact on security of supply. Both the securing of district heat production during the winter period and the security of electricity supply in the power reserve are currently based on good storage and usability of coal in solid fuel power plants. I would have asked the minister concerned: Has the government now explained in great detail how this uninterrupted heat and power generation will be guaranteed in Finland under exceptional circumstances? Could the Minister please open this matter a little more deeply?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u66	Madam President! An important decision and an historic decision. This must be supported by the abolition of coal use in Finland. You have to give it up all over the world. At the same time, of course, the question arises as to whether it would still be possible to raise the level of ambition. I am also involved in municipal policy in the city of Helsinki, such as the Minister for the Environment, and yes, Helsinki is one of the worst coal users specifically in district heating, and since this still stings my own city, I dare raise the question as to whether the committee's consideration of whether coal should be carefully assessed before, 2025. It has been presented by Sitra, not just the Left Alliance, but Sitra, among others. Sitra's own opinion states that bringing the ban on the use of coal for energy up to 2025 would have an overall economic impact of around EUR 200 million, compared with between 14 and 25 million in 2029.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u67	Let us take five replies: Myller, Pirttilahti, Marin, Eestilä, Karimäki. Then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u68	Mr President! The Social Democrats, of course, also support this proposal to get rid of coal. Here we have to return to that previous debate in the sense that we must also have opportunities to replace coal other than the bio-based fuels we discussed here and discussed their adequacy and other challenges. One important thing is to increase energy efficiency. We will never be able to produce purely enough energy to increase it all the time. The question is how we use our expertise for energy efficiency and genuine, new, renewable heating options. To this end, we need an ecological tax reform. The euro is also the best consultant in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u69	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and the ministry and to our government for having great presentations today, bringing the previous distribution obligation and then this attempt to achieve carbon neutrality, that is to say, to abandon coal. This is also the strong climate policy of the government. This is — 29 will probably come quickly to us in 10 years — indeed, the dismantling of these facilities by then, and if we can speed this up again, that is a good thing. Perhaps my concern relates to electricity generation, when these new plants or new fuel plants have become a little evasive, that electricity production would no longer be continued alongside district heat. Even at the moment, CHP power generation is rather low for us, and, let us say, large cities need to be prepared for the way in which we ensure electricity production. Fortunately, here comes this possible funding for research,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u70	Mr President! When it's time to say thank you, you say thank you. This is a good proposal and the Social Democrats support the abandonment of coal and this ambitious objective. The SDP is committed to Finland being carbon neutral in 2035. This is a very ambitious objective and all means are needed to achieve this and achieve it. We need a path to decarbonisation, but we also need a path to abandon other fossil energies, and we believe that this should be seen as a whole. And just as Mrs Myller has pointed out here, it is not just about these forms of energy; it is above all about how to save energy, how to use energy as efficiently as possible. We need an entire system to change both in terms of energy and then in terms of transport, which we have just talked about. It is clear that all parties in this Chamber are committed to the Paris climate agreement, that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u71	Mr President! Energy policy, climate policy, fuel policy and people's ability to pay must be dealt with at the same time. Minister, you were not here just now. I asked when we know that energy poverty and pensioner poverty are being discussed in Central Europe, and people simply cannot afford to pay higher energy bills. There has also been a debate in this Chamber today, and yes, I have to raise the greens, for example, who say no to coal, not peat, not additional fellings. It's getting to be impossible. Fuels are leaving the market, and we do not know what the availability of wood will be in the future and how high we will achieve in terms of the positive development of the national economy. So I ask the Minister: have you assessed this cumulative impact on how high energy costs in different scenarios — when it always has to be the worst option to assess — may rise, and can something be done about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u72	Mr Karimäki, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u73	Mr President! This is a very important and worthy proposal. Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen. The burning of hard coal must be abandoned as soon as possible. At the same time, I would also like to see courage in the timetable to stop burning peat. This also causes climate emissions, but also other ecological problems. To Mr Eestilä, we are not completely denying the burning of wood, but oversized logging is not sensible in this situation. However, I would like to ask the Minister for an assessment when you talked about security of supply, and yet this would in future have been allowed as a safe fuel and in emergency storage coal: can this be some kind of loophole, however, that coal should be blown off, or is it ensured that the stock is as small as possible? And, in fact, I would also like to ask if you have any plans to replace coke with another raw material? In fact, coke is coal, and it is used in the steel industry as a reducing agent, and also for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u74	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u75	Madam President! According to a recent IPCC report, temperature rises must be brought to a halt of 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial time. The objective and the challenge is really great, but the good thing is that we still have a chance and a future if we take action. The Left Alliance is therefore in favour of abandoning the use of coal for energy purposes, and it is great that this issue is being discussed here today. In a way, when such a great debate arose from this IPCC report, it would have been hoped that there would have been at least one television camera and two journalists on the scene during this debate, when the Minister, too, in a very significant way, has been setting this up. Let's not forget that IPCC report in a couple of weeks. I have already raised the question of whether the ban on coal could be brought forward in committee before the end of the debate. After all, Sitra has been very active in these matters and has raised this issue. What other comments on this matter? State ownership policy should also take into account the fact that Finland also renounces coal outside its borders. We have a common climate, don't we? The fact that Finland is giving up does not help on its own, but requires action elsewhere. And if you think of Fortum, which is owned by the majority of the Finnish state, it has used its capital from Caruna stores, the unfortunate Caruna stores, to acquire Uniper, and that is one of the most violent coal-based companies in Europe. I would also raise the question of the responsibility of Finnish-owned companies for our common climate outside Finland’s borders. Madam President! What, then, is there to replace coal use? The same debate was already taking place to some extent on the previous point, namely fuel mixing. The most important and best way to combat climate change, protect the environment, ensure biodiversity is energy saving. The best energy for the climate, for the environment, is the energy that is not used at all. Intelligent solutions for electrical and thermal systems already exist. They must now be introduced quickly. At the same time as we are abandoning coal, it is estimated that by 2029 — as we hope it will be earlier — carbon capacity will be replaced for the most part by biomass. I would like to continue to say that CO2 emissions must be reduced in both the short and the long term, and that is why it is dangerous if carbon is only replaced by peat, because its emissions from the climate are even higher than carbon. For example, Sitra, environmental and non-governmental organisations and the City of Helsinki, which is now one of the worst coal burners, also require the ban to be extended to peat, so that not only a solution bans carbon, but also a solution prohibiting peat burning. That is what I can say as a Helsingian, but perhaps as a Member of Parliament I say that, if we take at least the starting point here, once coal is banned from burning energy, we will move towards extending the ban to peat in the early 2030s, if not simultaneously, which would of course be the finest. An important, first and quick step is that tax subsidies for peat should be reduced as early as next year, and the Minister for the Environment pointed out that small solutions were being made. I wish I could see even bigger ones. Now we are facing climate change mitigation in a situation where one boiler cannot simply be replaced by another. Now we need to find all the means for energy saving, energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions — quickly. The opinion of the Council for the Evaluation of Legislation says: ‘The proposal could deal more with new energy solutions to replace coal. “ This may also be the message of the Legislative Evaluation Council to the committee. We are now dealing with a historic proposal to ban the use of coal for energy purposes, and we strongly support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u76	Mr President! The proposal proposes to introduce a law prohibiting the use of coal for energy purposes. According to the proposal, the use of coal as a fuel for the production of electricity or heat would be prohibited from 1 May 2029. The proposal is particularly worrying and problematic in terms of its impact on security of supply in our country. Both ensuring the production of district heat during the winter period and the security of electricity supply in the power reserve are currently based on good storage and usability of coal in solid fuel power plants. It would have been necessary to find out in depth how continuous production of heat and electricity will continue to be guaranteed in Finland and also in exceptional circumstances. The prohibition of the use of hard coal has a clear impact on the protection of the property of companies if, otherwise, all establishments which comply with the requirements of the legislation have to be removed from production before the end of their technological life. The ban on the use of coal for energy purposes and its justifications are quite problematic in relation to the principle of proportionality. From the point of view of the order in which the ban enters into force in time, it is of great importance. These issues need to be considered very carefully in relation to the emission reduction achieved. In view of these considerations, the Finns of Peru cannot accept this presentation now made. Mr President! The world market price and the easy availability of hard coal have meant that coal has played an important role as one of the sources of energy production in Finland. Coal is an important fuel for security of supply. It has a low storage capacity and can replace at least some of the peat in almost all peat boilers. Given its high storage capacity and low price, coal is central to energy security and to the power reserve system that ensures security of electricity supply. The replacement of coal from the security of supply perspective with other spare fuel is completely impossible. The adequacy of electrical power can already be threatened in Finland, not only in exceptional circumstances, but also in the middle of the summer, for example, with heavy winter frosts. Import dependency can be expected to remain at least the same in the future. The situation is not in favour of categorically banning the use of coal. This bill is further increased by the government’s planned compulsory law to give up coal. If the law is implemented, at least EUR 200 million of compensation and a reduction in tax revenue will be granted to the Treasury. The State will have to pay around EUR 100 million for the breach of the constitutional protection of its assets to electricity companies, and the fuel tax revenue of coal will be around EUR 100 million per year. If Finland abandons coal, is the State prepared to buy the allowances thus opened out of the market? Otherwise, another EU country will be able to increase its emissions, as the use of coal for energy is subject to EU emissions trading. The compulsory exemption from coal will increase rents in the capital region by between 10% and 20%, and this is because electricity and district heat prices will increase by between 20% and 30% according to the calculations of research institutes. Large additional housing bills are expected by a large number of Finns. Some 1.2 million Finns now live in houses warmed up by the district heat of so-called coal cities. This decision would increase housing subsidies paid by taxpayers by at least EUR 400 million per year. Mr President! According to WHO studies, Finland has the best air quality in the world. Finland has already implemented its part of the Paris climate agreement. In Finland, electrical energy must continue to be produced with diverse nuclear, water, coal, peat and biopower production. Finland cannot afford to give up the use of coal or peat, and there is no need for that in climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u77	Mr President! The previous speaker has already expressed percentages of how much district heat and electricity prices will rise. I do not know about the price of electricity, but of course there will be pressure on district heat because there will be two fuels out of the market that are currently in use. I agree that this is going towards clean solutions, but I also think, perhaps, contrary to what Mr Arhinmäki said, that if we want to respect and respect the investment protection in Finland, at least not before 2029, there is no way that coal can be removed from the market by force. We have to wait because some heat and electricity generating plants have invested significant sums. [PaavoArhinmäki calls for an answer ] There is now some concern in the provinces, because wood, peat and to some extent coal are being used there to make it possible to produce mandatory heat for floorings and people, and hence, of course, electricity, which is beginning to be short of several thousand megawatts when we go to the freezers. Fortunately, imports from Russia and Sweden and Norway are playing so that the problem can be dealt with as well, hopefully in the future. But the most important thing is for us to assess what are the clauses by which this ban on coal can then be effectively ignored if there is a forced situation that fuel is simply not available, because this is likely to significantly increase demand for wood in one form or another. If we are to invest heavily in the forest industry, which is desirable, then wood will be needed there for pulp soup or other higher-value products, and we must assess that we do not make the kind of political decisions that cost the public money and then weaken our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u78	Let us continue on the list of speakers when I understand that the Minister is under pressure on schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u79	Mr President! This proposal aims to ban coal in energy use in 2029. The security of supply that has now been raised in these discussions is extremely important, and when Mr Karimäki doubted whether there was a loophole in the security of supply, and Mr Immonen doubted that these security of supply exceptions in the law were not sufficient, then the uninvolved could conclude that this issue in terms of security of supply would appear to be in the balance. Of course, security of supply is important. What I myself am a little concerned about is how to ensure that coal-removal energy companies will be able to replace coal combustion with the best possible new technology and will not be forced to invest in technology that is already obsolete. This is important in the sense that investments in the energy sector are very important in euro terms and are large and production facilities are also in use for decades. That is why it is important to first make use of existing investments and then to make use of future investments, which will now have to be made through this bill, so that energy companies can make investments in the best possible way and in particular in the new technology that is as good as possible. That is what I would have asked the Minister: how has this been thought when there is such a strict deadline?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u80	Mr President! The results of the international climate report were truly warning and overwhelming. Action must be taken right now, because we are already the generation that is suffering from climate change and so that we can secure the world for our children and grandchildren so that it does not warm up to more than 1.5 degrees, we really must take important action. And I must say that what the government has brought here is one very important, key step towards a carbon-neutral world. This is also the government's most ambitious climate target, but it should also include peat and a timetable for the cessation of peat combustion, because the emissions of peat combustion are even higher than those of coal. The increase in peat tax proposed by the government is completely inadequate. Even after a small tax increase in the budget row, the tax subsidy for peat still exceeds EUR 160 million per year. This is at a higher level than it was during the time before your government began. This government proposal, or any other plan, has also failed to ensure that coal is not replaced by unsustainable biomass combustion and carbon sink degradation. This is also what the International Climate Panel (IPCC) warned against and called for the widespread protection of carbon sinks and the growth of carbon sinks in the world. But I would like to raise one question which I hope the Minister will also be able to answer: has the government clarified the EU's position on banning coal without banning peat with a higher specific emissions, and could this be interpreted as non-compliance with EU rules in favour of domestic fuel? The impact assessment of the Government’s proposal also states: ‘In view of the need to accept the ban,there is a problem that is not covered by the ban However, the energy use of peat can be justified, inter alia, by reasons relating to security of supply and security of supply.’ I very much hope that this ban on the use of coal will also be in order for the EU, because it is a very important action to combat climate change here in Finland. The International Energy Agency also criticised in its report the use of peat and the fact that energy taxation does not in all cases adequately reflect the CO2 emissions of fuel. We Greens have set out a timetable for the dismantling of all fossil fuels in the fossil-based package this summer and we still expect the same from the other parties. According to the Greens, coal, peat and fuel oil, all of them, must be disposed of in the 2020s and environmentally harmful subsidies must be driven down.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u81	Mr President! Of course, the abandonment of coal is one step in the fight against climate change, and CO2 emissions in Finland would be reduced by around one million tonnes per year, but then, when we talk about economic impacts, they would of course arise from premature decommissioning of existing equipment and then from new replacement investments. Switching from one energy source to another is not enough; energy efficiency and efficiency must always be taken into account. There has also been talk of Helsinki. Of the cities, the city of Helsinki is the biggest emitter. Helen has been told that coal will be replaced by domestic biomass, but then it will be, but: domestic biofuels are simply not enough for everyone. I would like to ask the Minister: must it then be imported from abroad? In conclusion, I would also like to defend peat when we know that one third of Finland is peat and that only about 2% of this peat is used. And when you talk about security of supply, peat if what is a good domestic, growing resource for security of supply. There is no need to think that it is used solely for energy purposes, but that it is designed for packaging, textiles, and it can also be a competitor to various kinds of natural fibers. I hope that we will not go too quickly, but that we will also keep our heads cold on these energy issues and make good decisions with common sense. There is no point in making any fuss about these matters either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u82	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that we should ensure that we do not spoil our climate and that we are able to ensure that Finland remains a heated country. Finland is a country in the northern region, where there is a great deal of certainty every winter from frost, in some winters more, sometimes less, so it is a fact. We are also a welfare state, an industrial state whose future and standard of living depend on whether we can produce goods that are sold on the world market. We use a lot of energy and we use a lot of raw materials, and because we do or do not do our living standards, and I do not believe even after today that Finland would want to give up being a civilised state and a state of living. In other words, we must ensure that energy circulates in this country and is reasonably affordable and environmentally friendly. However, Finland’s emissions have been declining all along. There's a picture painted here that we're going to damnation. That's not true. Net emissions have decreased by 50 per cent in Finland since 1990. Growth in industry, economic intensity, production volumes, transport, all activities in Finland have multiplied since 90, and despite this, emissions have halved during this period. This too should tell us that Finland has been in a very good direction. Last year, emissions fell by 5.9 per cent, so last year we did a good job on this front. So we're gonna have to stick to the same line instead of going out on our own. When you look at the amount of emissions in Finland from all over the world, it is 1.4 per mil. Even if we stopped breathing in this land and put out all the fires, it wouldn’t even show up on that hand. You won't find a mustache so precise that you won't see a 1.4 per mil throw. I don't see it. It doesn't even vibrate. In Estonia, for example, on the southern shore of the bay, all substances are burned with sorrow, the burning stone is used, and there is no bad conscience about it. We do not blame our neighbors, everyone can choose their way, but we need to take some sense into, for example, heating up homes now. When you feel that you can no longer heat the stove with electricity or can no longer heat the stove with wood or the furnace of the house, or if you have to give up that good oil boiler immediately, there is no basis for that. Let's get those houses fixed up. Let's modernise the systems. I also have a modern sauna heater in my house in the sauna, which no longer smokes properly. Practically, I’m secretly a sauna heater when there’s no more smoke from the pips. So that's where the equipment's been developing like hell. This is a reflection of the fact that you do not want to go out of your way, but that you need to think about what to do. In general, it always makes sense to think about all human activities before going — including navigation. When looking at the emission factors, the emission factor for natural gas is 55.3 according to Statistics Finland's fuel classification. The tree is 0. It is agreed, it is 0 because it is renewable, that is, when the tree is burned, it goes back to the form it came from. The corresponding figure for peat is 107.6, but when used in a mixture of wood, it is in any case below the combustion value of natural gas, because when peat is burned with wood, the normal ratio varies so that usually between 70 % and 80 % is wood and between 20 % and 30 % is wet, depending on peat. Against this background, it is absolutely worthwhile for us to continue burning wood and peat in this country, especially in CHP plants, which produce very well both district heating and electricity. And when the peat is burned, it brings about the goal of almost zero climate emissions in common with the tree. There's hardly any particulate emissions. It burns very clean, and the boiler technology works perfectly optimally and lasts for a long time. So in these respects, this system should now be understood by us ourselves: we have created a system that is the cleanest and best in the world, so let us not give it up immediately. And then there has been no mention of security of supply in this Chamber yet. No one's mentioned any security of supply. [Kaj Turuse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u83	Today we have a time limit, and one speaker, Mr Rydman, will now take the floor. Then the Minister will answer, and we will see how we proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u84	Madam President! After all, there is no problem-free energy source from environmental considerations. Nuclear power always has a problem with the final disposal of nuclear fuel after use. As far as the energy sources to be burned are concerned, their emissions are a problem. When talking about hydropower, significant difficulties are created for migratory fish stocks. Wind power also causes its own environmental and bird damage, and it is not very predictable or reliable as a weather-dependent energy source. In solar power, problems arise with the manufacture and use of solar panels. In view of this whole, I find it somewhat problematic the political culture that has become more widely for us, that we are raising one single source of energy, whatever it happens to be at any time, to the beak of the stick and we are highlighting the environmental impact of this particular source of energy, perhaps rightly so. If we do not see this whole, we may turn a blind eye to even more problematic environmental issues than those who arise in a conversation at any given time. Helsinki is a city that, in fact, produces a significant proportion of its heat and electricity specifically with coal, and to be honest, this bill will cause significant problems for Helsinki's energy production and how to find adequate substitutes in this time frame. Yes, they have been developed organically all along the way. But the worst thing I see is that — and I hope the Minister will take a stand on this too — when we self-sustaining energy from the energy source cause problems for our own domestic energy production, how does this view the difficult international political situation in which some major powers have tended to use imported energy also to promote their own blackmail and major power policy interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u85	And then the minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u86	President! I will respond to some of the concerns, even though the representatives who have raised them have already left. As far as the security of supply issue is concerned, Mr Turunen summed up the fact that when someone is concerned about security of supply and the other wonders whether these exceptions are loopholes, then perhaps it is a good balance. So the exceptions have been raised here. Of course, if you have emergency conditions under the Emergency Act, you will not see what keeps the country warm. The same applies to the power reserve system that has been created for us — it is not being addressed here. A serious disturbance on which the Government can take a decision: it will ensure that exceptional circumstances are taken into account. And then if there are issues like local security of supply problems, then in them then the Energy Agency's application evaluates whether there can be an exception from this. In other words, good efforts have been made to ensure security of supply. On schedule: Actually, here some people hoped that there could be even a faster schedule. Then you come to this sort of property protection or a bit like constitutional reflection, and those explanations, what has been done in advance, assume that this more than ten-year period is sufficient for everyone to be able to make the transition. An accelerated timetable could bring these problems or raise claims for compensation, and that is a risk we do not want to take here. Instead of offering carrots to those cities that are ready to give up faster — hopefully it will work, and I hope that some cities will catch up with it. Mr Rydman said very well that there is no problem-free form of energy production. That's right. Everyone has their own problems, but the government has no intention of going on top of any other individual fuel to put the chips on. I justified this decarbonisation by requiring replacement investments, which take time to plan and develop, and it is therefore good to put that deadline in good time. Other forms of substitution may be somewhat more flexible. And what's the replacement? The first, of course, comes to mind the introduction of waste heat from industry and services. They are already widely used in the district heating network, but more can be used. In geothermal energy, they have their own potential in various heat pump solutions, but it is quite clear that a large part will also be replaced by some kind of biomass that will be burned. Then this, that domestic or imports: If we have an increase in investment in the forest industry, it also means that these by-products used for energy production become more of the normal industrial volume. In any case, even though some companies are saying that biomass will then have to be imported, there will certainly be more of that biomass from the country of origin than coal from the country of origin, because we do not have the first coal crumb in this country. However, it is important to improve energy efficiency, especially in the existing building stock. The future of CHP production has been highlighted here, and that is why this Government's policy on these substitute forms specifically calls for the maintenance of CHP production and is ready to be promoted. Heat boilers alone will not be supported. In relation to this CHP production, some were concerned about whether the price of electricity would rise too much. Well, CHP producers are concerned that the price of electricity is too low, that is why it is hardly worth investing in CHP, so here too there are very interrelated conflicting views. In any case, however, the estimates made here by a representative of how much this is now raising rents, for example, are, I believe, highly exaggerated. Pöyry's studies show that the economic impact of Helsinki in 2030 will also be very marginal. And by the way, none of us yet knows how expensive that coal burning would be, because we do not know what the price of the allowance is, which is a burden on coal. As far as this climate impact is concerned, since coal installations are included in the emissions trading scheme, when the question was asked whether the government would then withdraw an equivalent number of allowances, if we still use coal when this ban comes into force, then it is logical that the corresponding number of allowances will then be withdrawn from the market and this legislation will be prepared for. But that's when we see each other. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u87	There are four requests to speak and I now offer you a one-minute reply. Who's going to see you? — — — — Congressman Arhinmäki will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u88	Madam President! Mr Eestilä and Mr Tiilikainen also raised the question of this protection of investment if this process is brought forward, and that is the real question. According to Sitra, I quote directly: ‘It has been estimated that the acceleration of the ban on the use of coal energy until2025 would lead to the total The implementation of the coal ban in 2029 would lead to an estimated total cost of between EUR 14 and 25 million. It is possible to compensate for the economic impact of the early introduction of the ban on coal by, for example, re-allocation of environmentally harmful subsidies.’ So, of course, the question here is that, if this is brought forward, that would mean that these specific investments should be replaced, and this is a question of what value we attach to the fact that coal burning and the pollution of the climate will be brought to an end a little earlier, what the economic cost will be. That is the assessment I raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u89	Madam President! Of course, the issue with these considerations is not that something should or should not be opposed, but I think that the whole thing must be controlled. Now that these climate issues are quite dominated by public debate, it has to be said that if we really think so, as it seems that our future in both heat production and combined heat and power generation often rests on biomass, and if we practically remove coal, and if at least part of it is going in the direction that peat is going in, which is in itself a good domestic option in many provinces, then it will easily lead to an impossible policy that is in favour of continuous forest management, education and bans on open fellings. I think it's an impossible equation. One of these equations needs to be dropped. Politically, it is unacceptable to drive many wheels. Then it must be acknowledged that forest management continues on a good historical path.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u90	Madam President! Yes, the forest in Finland will continue to be used and beaten, but it will probably be more for those valuable objects, these wooden structures and pulp and other things. Actually, I would ask the minister. Since this is probably one of the first coal prohibition laws in Europe, has this been the case in other countries before? And then, in fact, these national trade relations and also at EU level: when would we be able to take these decisions in a similar way in strong coal countries, such as Poland and Germany? Is there light at the end of the tunnel as we looked at these new uses of lignite mines and so on, what does it look like in the EU perspective?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u91	Madam President! I consider this basic philosophy to be problematic, which we have had on environmental and energy issues perhaps for a decade, if not a little longer, that we always take one particular source of energy point by point and then take its environmental impact on the stick itself, perhaps rightly, but at the same time forgetting the environmental impact of other energy sources. As far as I am concerned, the energy field is developing organically and new forms of energy, new forms of substitution, are coming on the market all the time, but there is little concern about the fact that bans are being implemented explicitly through legislation, because that is not necessarily the way to produce the most sustainable results, especially in a world such as today, where energy and imported energy are increasingly being used as an international policy blackmail. I would also like to hear the Minister's view on how this increases Finland's risk of being put under pressure by means of an energy weapon in the Great Power policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u92	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings will be resumed at this sitting once the other items in the order of business have been discussed, if there are still requests to speak at that stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u93	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u94	Mr President! It is very important that this law on banning the use of coal for energy has finally arrived in Parliament. Unfortunately, this process has been the subject of very long negotiations, and it is unfortunate that it will not be this way until the end of the parliamentary term, but, of course, we are pleased that it will finally be here. Some criticism has been raised as to why there is such a great deal of effort being made to support the conversion of coal-fired power stations, which should have been more supportive of those who have handled their affairs well. But if you think about what is most important in order to slow down and prevent climate change, then it is true that the major polluters, unfortunately the big cities, are responsible for a large part of the country's climate emissions, and if you look at energy solutions, then it is extremely regrettable that our largest cities are the biggest coal users of all. In this respect, it is positive that a large proportion of Finland, far more than 90 per cent of this country, has already moved to much renewable use in both heating and electricity, and, as Mrs Hoskonen said, Finnish CHP expertise has an exceptional role to play in the energy system of our country, and it would have a great deal to offer to other similar regions, if you look at the northern latitudes. Regrettably, the power parties in these large cities have criticised this proposal by the central minister, and at that point, of course, the question always arises as to how it is possible, for example, that Stockholm, like Helsinki, has long since been able to move from coal to other solutions and renewable energy. Many times the answer has then been that these capital power parties are somehow different cities and Stockholm is on the coast. Well, I understand Helsinki is also quite well located on the coast. This issue is very important at global, international level, as well as symbolically. The use of coal will certainly fall in any case, but this will have a very significant effect, that Finland is now in the forefront of banning the use of coal, and then, of course, we will have to move forward with how we can get rid of the other fossil fuels. It is not in any way simple, but, for example, the increase in the blending obligations for biofuels in the previous section of the referral debate is an excellent way of doing so. What is important, of course, is that the major players in this country, the big cities, commit themselves to decarbonising themselves, because the rest of the country has done so long ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u95	Mr President! Just a brief word on this energy issue. It does make sense to phase out coal in the long term, but in all circumstances we must ensure that all cities are heated and energy produced. Indeed, as Mr Kulmuni said, on the shore of this same sea, where Helsinki is located, is also located in Stockholm, and today it heats up a whole million renewable cities. Stockholm alone is larger than the entire capital region. Greater Stockholm is much, much larger than the Greater Helsinki area as a whole, and this shows that renewable heating is possible. But here too, I do not like the fact that we are going to go to the wind and make a decision, as the Swedes or the Germans have decided to give up nuclear power. Every reasonable person knows that such a huge energy deficit cannot suddenly be solved by any civilized state. That's not possible. We're gonna have to find those solutions for a while. Let's finish with the existing technology. Just as, for example, we have a lot of talk about the energy economy in a single house, and this is genuinely linked to energy policy. A truly efficient zero-energy house is possible today, but if someone lives in a well-refurbished old house with a fireplace and a wooden sauna and then uses an air heat pump to warm up a small house, it is certainly the best solution for Finnish society and for the world as a whole, because if you start building an energy-efficient house, you will use a huge amount of natural resources and never get the climate benefit you want in the world. I hope, Mr President, from the very bottom of my heart, that this issue will be taken seriously in every place, that coal will be abandoned gradually but sensibly, so that it will be replaced every time we have to reform the equipment. Not even a power plant longer than two, thirty years, when it's technically exhausted. Then it will be the moment when it will be reformed, new energy methods will be used, and in 50 years' time we will be in a much, much better situation. Finally, Mr President, it is worth remembering that when we compare our 1990 emissions to this moment, we have halved our total emissions during this period. And look, ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation in Finland with regard to the car fleet, for example, in 90 and today. It's a huge difference. There are now starting to be households with two cars, and there may be three in the best. In other words, even on the car side, this development has been enormous. In other words, during 90 C.E., very smoking cars that produced a lot of emissions were driven, and the roof on the streets of the city was terrible, but today that anxiety has disappeared when modern technology favors low-emission cars. And we're going to electric cars too, that's clear. Little by little, but certainly not by dismantling existing good structures, making costly cost decisions and, above all, raising the cost of Finnish work so high,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u96	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 7. the subject matter. Is there anything the Minister would like to say about this? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u97	Mr President! The present bill focuses on the problem that we in the cities that are losing our population have empty, once supported rental dwellings, which are expensive to maintain, and if they do not have enough inhabitants, the few existing residents would still have to rent the entire building, which will increase the rent pressure even if the demand for these dwellings is very low. Here was the so-called AAKE working group, which considered the proposals on how to meet this problem, and now this government proposal brings the legislative proposals in line with the proposal of that group. This increases such demolition grants when the decision is reached that it is more economical to dismantle that old, underutilised building than to leave it to repair or maintain it, and this also brings new funding opportunities for further work. So, in this short space of time, I hope that Parliament will carefully examine in committee whether this is now responding to the needs of the cities that are losing their population. The situations are very different from one place to another, but here the proposals of the working group have now been translated into legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u98	Mr President! And thank you, Minister, if there's still time to be here. Mr President! In principle, this proposal by the Board of Directors to amend the terms and conditions of the Arava loan and to amend the Arava Restriction Act is a good one, but in some cases this may be insufficient. This government proposal contains the text: ‘In the areas outside the growth centres,in particular,subsidised rental dwellings andremovables,when urbanisation and economicchanges leadto migration towards growth centres. In the event of empty dwellings, the rented housing community will not be able to cover the costs of the housing.’ This text is, of course, true, but I think it lacks quite an essential element, namely public sector action, and in the public sector I also include universities. And yes, this public sector plays at least as important a role in those areas where the flats that are funded are left empty as a result of the move. One such locality is Savonlinna, my home town, which in practice lost residents in the form of students, when the teacher training institution was transferred to Joensuu by decision of the University Board. We left hundreds of apartments empty in Savonlinna, and suddenly when hundreds of apartments come into the housing market, it confuses the housing market for both rental dwellings and for dwellings sold. As a result, the entire housing market in the region is not mixed, these empty, stock-based rental dwellings must be dismantled. For example, Savonlinna Rental Houses Last summer, Oy unloaded several blocks of flats, a total of 107 apartments, due to the departure of OKL. These are very important situations in terms of regional economics, but also for these housing companies, which have state guarantees and thereby also transfer financial responsibility to the State. This government proposal has specifically sought to tackle these problems and the little one to hand out such areas and such housing companies, which have been financially funded and have been in difficulty. There are virtually four elements here: modification of loan terms, restructuring aid, limitation and dismantling card and direct dismantling aid. In this government proposal, the amount of loans to be forgiven, i.e. the write-off card, would rise from the present 60 percent to a maximum of 70 percent. Perhaps, however, this will not be enough in all cases in the future. The liquidator, Hannu Rossilahti, proposed a significantly greater relief. According to the case Savonlinna model included in the Rossilahti performance, the dismantling of municipalities that are struggling with the most difficult housing market problems could amount to up to 95 per cent, as well as the demolition allowance. In some cases, this size of percentage is also justified. I hope that, in committee, this recent proposal from Rossilahti could take place in some form, or at least in committee, with this percentage being considered: is this 70% sufficient in all situations, or could it be possible to build a similar set of criteria to those for the designation of restructuring municipalities? If the criteria are met, there could be a wider toolbox for supporting rental houses. What is good about this bill is the basic idea of this, and also the fact that these dismantling vouchers and grants can be made available in a preventive manner even before the rental company has come into significant financial difficulties. All in all, it must be said from this government proposal that the government has responded to these problems, which are likely to come even more in this country than has been the case so far. I would just like to point out here that this 70% does not seem to be enough, however. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u99	Madam President! I believe that the previous speaker, Mr Turunen, mainly summed up what I myself would have liked to say in this debate on referrals: that the proposal is, in itself, acceptable but inadequate, most likely. I thought it was good that Mr Turunen thought about the possibility that, for example, the committee stage could further develop this. This is the bitter other side of this difficult equation of housing policy. On the other hand, there is the problem that there are far too few affordable homes in growth centres, especially in the capital region. On the other hand, in some areas, the population is lost and housing is left empty. The Audit Committee also dealt extensively with housing policy as a whole. This important paper will also be here tomorrow for debate in plenary. We considered this same equation in that we raised this Savonlinna case in a very spectacular way, among other things, in the light that the state should not make such a regional development policy that, through its own actions, other policy areas, we are creating housing disasters in certain areas, and this Savonlinna is, of course, a notorious example of it. We also mentioned the importance of the work of this AAKE task force and also the work of Rossilahti. It is a good thing if we can really think about the fact that the committee will then also give a little more impetus to these proposals that are to be supported in their own right. President! This is really a big problem, and of course when we think about it and I was looking at the key figures that at the end of 2017, there were almost 9,000 empty ARA apartments, 2.4 per cent of the ARA stock, it's pretty big. In many places where this is happening, this is indeed a real problem. It is indeed a good thing that we are now taking steps forward, but hopefully we could go a little further. One of the issues I would like to raise here is that of what the Committee on Audit also deals with, a problem that does not provide a solution, that is, that in many localities homes are, in a way, losing their value, they do not sell, and many people are trapped in it. I would like to see an urgent debate on this issue as well: what could be done in these cases? Among other things, the President Niinistö has taken a strong stand on this at the time, and I would therefore ask that these issues be given serious consideration here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u100	Madam President! This bill, which is now under discussion, certainly responds to modern times and to the consequences of centralisation, which are not in every way good. One can say that Mrs Turunen's excellent speech dealt with this case at Savonlinna, which is probably the most striking example of these problems. In a city where there is a huge migration loss, even houses have to be demolished in order to keep the housing companies' finances in some kind of shape. It is clear that tax revenues from municipalities and cities cannot be used to support such companies, but must be scaled so that it can cover expenditure with its revenue and, in the meantime, manage to keep the remaining houses in order and the tenants happy. That's what it's all about, isn't it? I believe, Mr President, that a national industrial policy should also be brought into this debate. If we want to make a sensible housing policy, do we really want to build 15 square blocks of flats in Helsinki for people who move here? They pay almost ten grand a square foot for it. I've always been sad when people live in little hatches like this. As was said yesterday in the debate, the Greens are very concerned when the wild minks and raccoons live in small cages in their farms, and there is a huge noise about the need for virile circles, but the poor human can be shoved into such a small hatch, which is certainly no fun at all. Is it a decent life to live in a cottage where you don't think it's a good place to turn? I would like to see a more plentiful policy debate on this. Yes, the whole of Finland must be kept inhabited. In the previous order of business, we discussed energy policy and the peat came up. I have always wondered what miracle we Finns are always pushing the situation to drive down the rural industries. Now we have an initiative on the ban on open felling in this country. I don't know when it's coming into the house, but I hear there's enough names already. If the treatment of forests is made more difficult, it is clear that in rural areas it knows more unemployed people and people have to go somewhere after work. Our natural opportunities for developing the Finnish economy lie in our own raw materials. So we're bringing wood from abroad? We then risk an enormous amount of harmful plant diseases, tree-related diseases, insect diseases and other such pests that are destroying the forest, as has happened in Canada when millions of hectares of forest have been destroyed. Of course, the climate has changed, but if a suitable pest is brought to Finland with the imported wood, then we will have the same problem. Should we not one day in this country begin to think with a Finnish brain? We use forests, we use bogs, we use fields, and we do not make such keno-made barriers, which then escalate as such laws as are currently on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u101	Madam President! It is easy to agree with my good colleague, Mr Turuse, on this whole. It is excellent that the government has brought this proposal to our attention, but there really is still an essential part to it. The AAKE working group received a good report, which Hannu Rossillahti also carried out a special study on my own home town, Savonlinna, where the proposal was, among other things, to draw up a separate category of support for rehabilitation measures for all major or very high-risk municipalities in AAKE risk categories D and E. There would be 34 municipalities in this category, and these challenges are not just there in Savonlinna, but perhaps at the moment. I agree with Mr Turuse that the 70% aid category proposed in this government proposal on the maximum amount of write-offs and grants is very low. After all, Rossilahti presented 95 percent, which I personally would be happy to join. He also had other good ideas, such as the use of the conversion cord, that a new form of support would be drawn up in which part of the remaining arava loan would be forgiven if the loan was converted into a non-subsidised loan, for example by means of a municipal guarantee. Generally speaking, it can be said that these challenges must also be met by the State, because the challenges are very great in certain localities. Reasoning housing expenditure and keeping the housing market generally reasonable is in the interests of Finland as a whole. If we then consider the option of allowing these rental companies to go bankrupt, then it would, in particular, be borne by all the parties involved, namely the state, the municipalities and the residents, that is to say, it will never be a sensible option.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u102	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 8. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u103	Mr President! The presentation of this law is a delightful task. In particular, I am delighted that parliamentary cooperation, as always with veterans in recent years, has once again produced fruit and, in this respect, I am able to present a proposal which I can be quite confident about when Parliament is likely to approve — at least with reference to the fact that both public comments and background discussions with all the parliamentary groups on this issue have been very cooperative and deeply understanding. Mr President! There is now a government proposal to amend the law on the rehabilitation of front veterans. The proposal is based on the Government's decision to allow front veterans, through legislation, to have the same home-based services as the war ombudsmen currently have. The presentation, as one might say, is finally on the same line. At the moment, the state has granted an annual appropriation for the rehabilitation of front veterans by which municipalities have provided services for front veterans in their territory supporting rehabilitation and housing at home. In the context of the amending budget, additional appropriations have been allocated to municipalities to organise these services, where appropriate. This was also the case in the latest government amending budget for this year. It has been gratifying to see that in recent years, and only in the last year, municipalities have increased the use of these appropriations and thus improved the everyday lives of veteran citizens. Mr President! In the centenary year of Finland’s independence, last year, services supporting the home residence of veterans were significantly strengthened, precisely on the basis of the current legislation, in euro terms, to support the work of municipalities. The Government has reserved an additional EUR 40 million for the rehabilitation of veterans and open services for the spending limits period, ending next year. In addition to the additions to the appropriations, this proposal further strengthens the right of veterans to open services. In the future, the proposal will allow front veterans to have a legal right to support home-based services. These services would therefore be free of charge for veterans and the costs incurred would be reimbursed to the municipalities by means of state resources. In the future, both front veterans and war electors would have the legal right to these services, and therefore, regardless of what has happened in the war, all these honorary citizens would be in an equal position with each other. As I said, Mr President, the adoption of this law has been a shared desire of all the parliamentary groups. It will come into force in November next year. I thank you for this good cooperation, and I believe that this information on legislation, when Parliament starts and accepts it if it so wishes, will delight not only the veterans — that is, the dwindling group — but also the decision-makers of the municipalities who have contributed to this Finland 100 decision by increasing the service of veterans in the current law. Now it becomes a statutory obligation, regardless of the municipality of origin and with the war ombudsmen, to the veterans of our wars as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u104	Mr President! I am pleased that the government's proposal seeks to improve the situation of veterans. This proposal proposes to amend the law on the rehabilitation of front veterans by replacing services to support home residence for veterans who participated in wars between 1939 and 1945 with a military code, a military code or a military code. The proposal relates to the State's draft budget for 2019 and is to be dealt with in the context of the budget. The proposal is based on negotiations between parliamentary groups on the organisation of war veteran services. The common view was that all those who served in Finnish wars should be equal. In practice, this means that front veterans will be entitled to the same services as war ombudsmen in the future. In this context, I would also like to thank all the veteran organisations. Every year they have contacted all of us, at least the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, and have therefore raised their own issue and the things that are going on today with the veterans. The average age of veterans, our distinguished citizens, is over 93 years, and now everything must be done to promote their care services. With their work, their battles and their sacrifices, they have made everything we have today possible. Things could have gone completely different if it weren't for the tough veterans. It would be right and reasonable for all the veterans who are still among us to have the necessary services. The Finns have always been advocates of veterans. We have considered veterans, for example, in our shadow budgets and in our parliamentary activities. It reflects our great appreciation for them. Unfortunately, the measures taken by previous governments have been far from adequate despite election promises. Personally, I have asked a number of written questions as well as legislative initiatives on the subject. I really appreciate the veterans of our wars. This is also important for myself personally. In fact, this government proposal is of the same content as one of these Veterans' initiatives that I have taken, but good ideas, initiatives, do not have a party book. There has been far too much delay with the Veterans' care services. This law is due to enter into force 1. The President Better late than never, but I would have liked to see things move faster after the right decision. I have put a written question to the government about safeguarding the services of veterans before the reform comes into force, and there is also a budget initiative that will then be put to the vote before Christmas. At 3 p.m. today, I submitted a bill aimed at further promoting access to the care of veterans. In the legislative initiative, I propose that the percentage limits for war-qualified persons, which define the right to treatment or part-time care in an institution, should be abolished altogether. The Military Injury Act should be amended to compensate the war-qualified for the treatment provided in a private institution, even if its need is due to a non-compensated injury or illness. In practice, institutional care would be funded by the State Treasury for veterans who are unable to cope with their health at home. This would make things easier for many veterans. Improvements must be brought into force quickly. As long as my mandate as a politician remains, I will speak for the veterans here in the Chamber. We also have veteran widows, we have war orphans, we also have war boys, and above all these veterans who are still alive. We need to think about their interests and their care. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u105	Mr President! The veterans of our wars and the generation of veterans were required in time to make great sacrifices so great that they are even hard to comprehend. But without these sacrifices, without the veterans of our wars, we should not enjoy this great country that we can be proud of. Fortunately, the life of our veterans today is undivided in society. Appreciation is shown by deeds. Our debt to the veterans of our wars has not yet been paid. There are still some 10,000 veterans among us, whose human age must be ensured by providing well-functioning services and, in particular, home care. Mr President, it is the eleventh time to make the decisions that will enable our veterans and their mates to have proper home services in their homes. President! I am glad that this proposal has now been brought to Parliament, a presentation that puts the brothers on the same line, regardless of the fate of the war. In this context is the united work of the parliamentary groups and the common will that the brothers should now be placed on the same line. That's what we owe them. That's what they deserve. I am therefore pleased that the negotiation between the groups has reached a positive conclusion, and I am glad that the government has brought a proposal under this agreement to this House. In the future, front veterans and war veterans will be on an equal footing with regard to services supporting living at home. Front maveterans are provided with services of the same content as those provided by the war veterans under the Act on War Injury. Mr President! Apart from the united will of the parliamentary groups, for which I would like to thank my fellow Members, I would like to thank my fellow Members, especially Mrs Kaikka, for doing a great job of convincing the government behind this in the budgetary debate so that money could be found for next year, because it is really the eleventh time to bring this law into being when the veterans of our wars are still with us. But we must also say and acknowledge and give thanks to the Federation of Front Maveterans, the Federation of War Veterans, the Veterans' Organisations, in particular Heikki Karhu and Heikki Järvinen, who have persevered in this important matter, whose contribution was absolutely crucial in finding unity here in Parliament. With the support of its unity, and now with the support of this fine proposal presented just now by Minister Saarikko, we are moving forward together here in Parliament. The veterans of our wars, to whom we owe so much, have earned this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u106	Mr President! In total, some 600,000 men and 100,000 women participated in the Winter and Continuation Wars. The trial was severe, and many fell on the battlefield. After the war, these people became mothers and fathers, perhaps later grandparents. You know, everyday things were taken care of, studied, worked. The generation that lived in war built the Finland and the welfare services that we are all now enjoying. I'm sure the postwar ark wasn't easy. Thousands of people with permanent injuries returned to their homes. The youngest people who went to the front were only 16 years old. One in eight who took part in the wars never returned home. The average age of veterans is now over 93 years. Over a decade ago, there were 85,000 veterans alive. At the beginning of this year, there were just under 14,000 men in the war among us, and the number is dwindling practically every day. The sad fact is, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the veterans will not be with us much longer. The honourable citizens of our country have certainly earned valuable old age, and their spiritual heritage and their free, independent country must also be taken care of after the time has left for the last veteran. Veteran organisations have been engaged in a valuable dialogue with all parliamentary groups for several years. Discussions have repeatedly raised the desire to bring home and open services for veterans to all veterans. After all, at the moment the war ombudsmen have the right to extensive services, but the rights of the front veterans have been clearly narrower. The debates between the parliamentary groups, to which reference was made, finally brought results this autumn. The joint decision and policy of all parliamentary groups and the government of the country is that the home service rights of front veterans are extended to the same level as those of war veterans. Every veteran will be entitled to equal home services regardless of the place of residence or the fate of war. This is an important and important decision, both economically, in principle and in practice. Brothers on the same line, as the veterans say. Mr President! I would like to extend my warmest thanks to the veteran organisations, to all the parliamentary groups and to the government of the country for promoting this important issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u107	Mr President! At the beginning of the year there were about 12,000 front veterans, at the beginning of next year there were over 9,600 and at the end of the year 7,400 front veterans. So the last night's cry is going fast. The Military Disability Act provides for the right to services supporting living at home. The purpose of this proposal is to harmonise services by supporting home residence for war veterans and veterans. Among other things, home services, housing services and mobility support services and some medical services would be reimbursed. The municipality of residence is not obliged to provide services to persons abroad, and the State Treasury reimburses the municipalities annually for their expenses. A new estimate will therefore be added to the budget, a monetary item. Its use will start at the beginning of November next year, and the cost will be about 20 million, and in the following year it will be just under 70 million. Mr President! The average age of veterans is indeed 93 years, and with this government proposal we will remember the veterans of the years 39 to 45 who fought for us a free, beautiful and safe country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u108	Madam President! Briefly, as a follow-up to previous speeches: This bill is truly a joy across party boundaries, because it is a matter of common concern for all parties. The number of Front Veterans has been greatly reduced, and it is time to pay further debt of honor. As we know, the rehabilitation of the Front Veterans has been legally managed in good rehabilitation facilities and open rehabilitation in our country, and it is now proposed that services supporting the home of the Front Veterans be replaced by state funds for municipalities. For decades veterans have been able to enjoy rehabilitation in good rehabilitation facilities in our country, but the age structure and functional capacity of veterans have changed so that it is no longer very easy to leave home, and in that sense the focus is now on the services available at home. In that sense, this is an excellent presentation on which we are all delighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u109	Madam President! These are the fine and valuable moments when a bill is brought to Parliament, in which all the parliamentary groups can be wholeheartedly involved, and I also feel very grateful for the fact that this is also a way of respecting the hard work of our veterans of our wars. With this work, they have made this prosperity possible for all of us, which, thanks to their work, we have enjoyed for a long time. This is a very important issue. The fact that now, at the level of the law, we guarantee equal services home to these brothers, who are on the same line, is indeed a great honour. These are the moments when you can appreciate the fact that there are also things in the political turmoil that we can really agree with one another and together we can play our part. I think it was very eloquently said that this is certainly the eleventh moment when such a matter should be dealt with. All in all, I also see this from the point of view that I remember that we have also worked for the SDP for a long time and have put forward proposals on this issue. I think it is excellent that this proposal is now here. Surely we still have a lot of work and work to do, and we must remember in our actions also war orphans, war widows, all this, and also feel grateful to them now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u110	Mr President! In the last few days, in the last few weeks, there has been a somewhat contentious picture out of this Parliament, which is no credit to us. That is why I am very pleased that we now have this proposal for a parliamentary debate to improve the status of veterans, which will certainly be very unanimous, because it is the unanimous work of all the parliamentary groups that is behind this initiative. Excellent speeches have been made here from various sides of the hall. This supports my view that the matter of veterans is a matter for all of us. It is a great thing that in the future front veterans will be provided with services similar to those of the war veterans. The brothers are on the same line as they wish. It is not our job here to set boundaries between these enormous sacrifices on behalf of the patriots. Thank you to the active veteran and war-qualified organisations, thank you to the negotiators of the parliamentary groups, the leader of the negotiations and thank you to the government for bringing this proposal to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u111	Reply from the scene, Minister Saarikko, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u112	Mr President! Thank you for the debate, which represented a great deal of unity — a little as I had hoped and thought, when I recognized the basis of the debate which was also passed on to the government budget debate as part of its decisions. I would just like to make a few more comments on this big picture. In principle, the status of an individual veteran does not necessarily change because of this legislation — i.e. a veteran who has already received good basic services financed by the Treasury in his good municipality of residence under the current law in support of his everyday life. But especially the position of a veteran whose home has not been active in asking for money The state office or, for example, both officials and veterans and their loved ones have not been particularly aware of these rights. I also think it is fair for Parliament to openly admit in this debate that this is the last possible time to take this decision. We're talking about a confusingly small group of people anymore. They have a lot to teach us, a lot to tell. Some of them, practically all men over 90 years of age, are already in very bad shape, some of them active citizens still on their own, in their own homes. As many stories, as many stories of war and survival, fit among them. In addition to this being, as it were, at the legislative level perhaps the latest services for the veterans and invalids themselves, it is clear that we, as decision-makers, still have a legacy to cherish in many other ways than the concrete service promises that we put into the law. There is much to learn about the attitude of life, much to learn about the humility and, finally, the unity with which the veteran organizations, on the great front, have hoped for this decision from us decision-makers, rightly asked for it, and now I am finally happy to present it here on behalf of the Sipilä Government. Thank you for having the confidence to send a message now, after this debate, to Parliament, that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which was in a rush at work, will probably be able to take this quickly into the next year's budget and the legislation that will come into force next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u113	This valuable debate is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u114	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 9. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u115	Mr President! Municipalities have been paid unification grants from central government budget resources in Finland since the 1970s. The most significant merger grant scheme was ten years ago during the Best project. Between 2007 and 2013, the number of municipalities decreased by nearly one hundred. Approximately EUR 360 million was paid to these municipalities in the form of reunification grants. The Municipal Structures Act provided for in the last parliamentary term continued to include unification grants from 2014 to the beginning of 2017, but the number of municipal mergers has decreased by only nine in these years. These alliances have generally had a weak financial situation in the underlying municipality. However, there has been no merger grant or compensation for central government participation losses since 2017. According to the Government Programme, the Government supports voluntary municipal mergers. In order to support this objective, it is now proposed to include in the Municipal Structures Act provisions on discretionary uniting allowance for the unification of municipalities. This is not a temporary change as in the past, but the new grant is intended to be valid for an indefinite period. The purpose of the new grant is to improve the conditions for voluntary associations of municipalities in those situations where the association involves a municipality whose financial position can be considered difficult within the meaning of the draft law. Grants can therefore be granted, first of all, to so-called crisis municipalities, whose economic indicators meet the criteria of a municipality in a particularly difficult economic situation, in accordance with the Local Government Act. In addition, the grant could be granted in a situation where the municipal economic indicators are approaching the limits of the crisis community but do not fully meet them. The aim of this relaxation is to avoid the need for a crisis in the financial position of the municipality before any possible reunification, even if the municipalities are otherwise ready for the merger. Based on the financial statements for 2016 and 2017, around 15 municipalities would currently meet the criteria for the proposed discretionary merger grant. In this context, it should also be noted that the government is due to submit a proposal to reform the criteria for crisis municipalities this autumn. The draft is currently under discussion. The amount of discretionary grant would be considered by the Government and would be linked to the financial responsibilities of the new municipality in a difficult economic situation. A case-by-case consideration will enable consideration to be given to factors which may not yet appear in the municipal financial statements when considering the size of the merger grant. According to the proposal, a discretionary merger grant could be granted within the limits of the state budget. The budgetary plan, i.e. the framework, includes an appropriation of EUR 202210 million for the discretionary merger grant for crisis municipalities from next year. This appropriation is intended to cover the transfer from the central government section of basic municipal services. The proposed level of EUR 10 million could be used to support perhaps two or three annual consolidations of municipalities in difficult economic situations. The grant from the point of view of the new municipality resulting from the reunification of municipalities can be considered significant and would be much better suited to the economic responsibilities of the new municipality in a difficult economic situation. According to the proposal, the grant should be used to strengthen the finances of the new municipality. The Act is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year and the first connections to which it could be applied in practice could enter into force from the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u116	Madam President! It would be interesting to learn more about the results of municipal mergers. I myself come from Raahe, which today has experienced three municipal mergers in a city of 25,000 inhabitants. The first merger with the municipality of Saloinen took place in 73 C.E. and was due to a decision taken years ago with municipal hosts to provide services and to build the infrastructure needed by Raahe, who was suddenly raised by Rautaruu. The second merger took place in 2003 with Pattijoki. Pattijoki bridge was asked by a referendum whether they wanted to join Raahe. A narrow majority voted in favour of independence, but the municipal council decided in favour of the merger. The Pattijokis had been happy to use many services provided by the people of Karelia, and the direction of service had been in Raahe, but they would not have wanted to give up their own municipality. The sportsmen of Pattijoki were known as the country’s famous baseball team, so for some time it reminded us of which municipality the partners were from. The third merger dates back to 2003 after Vihmann joined Raahe. The neighbouring community, which was deprived of its low population, made a decision based on realism to obtain security even for some services in the future. Now a new school centre is being built, and the service house for the elderly is about to be completed. The carrot money received in the merger was allocated to the region’s many financial needs, but mainly to hobbies and recreation. Well, I guess there was some sort of roadblock. Mr President! According to our own experience, municipal mergers can be a better direction, as in the case of Vihanti, if the alternative is endless cutting of services and even the production of statutory services is not going to survive. Instead, bad minds may follow if local authorities do not have an up-to-date idea of what the merger is aimed at. Independence men and women may inspire fear of the end of services in the event of a merger. It is true that, quite often, X-rays are cut and savings are sought, for example, by combining administration or concentrating services under the same roof. Transparency and transparency in the conclusion of the association agreements will help to deal with the matter in a spirit of dispassionateness. Of course, carrot money may also tempt you to put something in order if no other funding is expected. With more than 40 years of experience of mergers in our region, I can say that old municipal and village identities will not disappear, even if the municipality itself does. Where I come from, the Saloistians, the Patti Rivers and the Vihanti are still what they are, as are the villages in their territory and their inhabitants. However, local identity is the most important thing, and through it the municipal citizen identifies himself most strongly. I support the government's proposal for a law amending the Municipal Structures Act. I hope that it will encourage the municipalities concerned to engage in mergers, increasing their vitality and ability to provide the basic services required by the law to citizens who would still be satisfied with them. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u117	Madam President! It is very good that municipalities should be united in the future. As the Minister said just now, it has been a little quiet. We are in the process of organising social and health care on larger shoulders, which is happening at least through a number of joint municipal authorities. After that, the main task for the municipalities is to organise education and education, and it is already known that we have about a hundred municipalities, which do not have children like that, so that they can have a single-series comprehensive school from the first to the ninth, so the pressure on this part will probably increase. In the case of the best project, money was spent quite successfully — I do not know where the money has gone. I have some examples of having a school built or an improved health station. But in any case it was supporting and scrambling the decision-makers of the municipalities to unite these municipalities. Now there are these three different criteria, after which it is possible to obtain this support. One of them is the evaluation procedure — I would say it is the last option — or it is that the municipal deficit is at least EUR 500 per capita, or that the three-year financial statements show that the criteria that have already been set out in Article 118 of the Municipal Act have been met. In other words, these criteria, i.e. there is a different form of support from the Paras Act at the time, because in the Paras Act all municipalities themselves registered that they want to unite with another municipality. However, I believe that this is a good start for the municipalities to be brought together from now on. Sometimes I wonder if it is now much easier economically if two municipalities with a few thousand inhabitants, both of which are in the evaluation procedure, are united. It may not improve that situation. I've got one big surprise or I'm thinking: So when the central government budget is a unit, why is this done in such a way that all the other municipalities then pay for it? So this is off the other town. When I look at next year's budget, where 254 million out of central government transfers, which therefore includes index cuts and everything else, then this will come to pass in the same way in 2020. Why do we have to take this away from other municipalities in order to unite some municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u118	Mr President! First of all, whether the associations of municipalities are good or, in quotes, bad things: I am not taking a stand on it, but I am simply saying that the municipalities themselves know when to go out and make their own decisions. In itself, this proposal is certainly extremely positive. I have understood in that way that the municipalities have also taken a very positive view of this in their opinions, but apparently the debate is mainly about this method of financing: this will be taken from the municipalities' share of the state or from the total. Well, the Minister can probably justify why this funding is taken from the VOS, but at least I understand that there are a number of reasonable arguments here, including the fact that this funding for the grant goes back to the local government and is of very little importance. At this stage, if 10 million are allocated and the central government shares of basic services are likely to be 8.5 billion, this share is rather small. This may also be compared to this discretionary increase in State aid, which is also deducted from State aid. On the other hand, this decoupling also means that funding will return to the State if this budget year is not used as a subsidy. Thirdly, it could also be estimated that, if it were a separate allocation, it would be more susceptible to annual budgetary changes and thus less credible as a permanent assistance system. But as a whole, I see this as an excellent performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u119	Madam President! About ten years ago, when I started in municipal politics, I often heard from older decision-makers who made various expenditure increases that spending control was necessary, because otherwise there would be a pick-up. Since the money has been wringing hands for a long time, I would like to ask the Minister in charge: Can the municipality go bankrupt? Can there be liquidators in the municipality who can force a weak economy to merge with their stronger neighbour? And at the end of the day, what has been the experience of municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u120	Mr President! When it comes to voluntary municipal mergers, the most important thing is trust between municipalities and transparency with regard to one another. I myself have been involved in these merger negotiations, but there was no reason why this cooperation was so successful. On the other hand, if a little smaller municipality were to join another municipality, I do not think there is any such greater interest in it either. Then that small municipality should join a larger and more prosperous municipality. But then I would ask — if I understood correctly, even though this was a very clear proposal: these voluntary federations would receive 10 million a year, and you said, Minister, that they would be enough for two or three municipalities, but is this 10 million million for many years to be distributed to these municipalities, or what? I didn't quite get the idea about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u121	Minister Vehviläinen, reply, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u122	Mr President! In short, a few questions. First of all, I think Mr Paatero quite rightly analyses what the future municipality will be like after the social and regional reform. In other words, education, education and early childhood education are the main thing, and those municipal VOSs are also going to do it. But then I think that if we talk about municipalities with poor financial carrying capacity and very little children born, if there are long journeys, then it is not necessarily that kind of solution. I think that in the coming decade we should think more about this kind of flexible self-government from the point of view of the municipality, whether there are other solutions than municipal mergers and then the fact that children are being taken on longer school trips. This will be a painful question in the future to resolve. But then on the subject of the VOS, why is this out of there: I think Mrs Korhonen was very clear in her own speech as to why this is important or better than that separate item. This is the case, of course, that this EUR 10 million, which is being presented here from next year onwards, really strengthens the whole picture of local government finances and thus supports the financial carrying capacity of municipalities. That's how I look. If it were there as a separate item, it would be more sensitive to change in these circumstances and in future circumstances if it were to be cut, so that I think it is good that it is permanent and that it will be so. Well, then Congressman Mäkipää wondered how to distribute this. EUR 10 million is the annual level proposed here. It can be — there were, for example — between 2 and 3 municipalities, but there is no guarantee that one 10 million will be distributed to a single municipality. It can also be smaller. If there are more than five municipalities, then it will decrease, and it will not be given evenly, so that there are certain criteria. And within that EUR 10 million, it can also be considered that the grant can be received in more than one year, but it is then the practical decision-making process. To Mr Mattila, I would like to say that the municipality cannot go bankrupt. There is an evaluation procedure ahead of the real economic crisis, and if it is in a really weak state, then at the end of the evaluation procedure it is the issue of forced marriage. But with regard to the evaluation procedure, I would like to say that it does not necessarily lead to a coercive union, a union of municipalities, if the municipality can present a credible path, how it can repair its own economy and then continue to be independent. But maybe this point is so that when you have this big reform coming up, then here is a little like this standing water, that neither are those voluntary mergers of municipalities currently pending.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u123	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 10. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u124	Madam President! The Government's proposal for the Water Transport Act and some related laws is under discussion, i.e. the overall reform of the Water Transport Act. The aim of the reform is to modernise and bring together the currently scattered regulation on the behaviour of boaters and others moving in water transport and to clarify the roles and tasks of the authorities. The aim of the reform is also to increase the safety of water transport and responsible boating. It also aims to enable automation in water transport. It is also a deregulation project. We propose bringing together the rules on the transport of water and the principles of steering it together in a single law. The traffic rules for water transport apply to both commercial shipping and boaters. Similarly, we are proposing to streamline the regulation of the new boatmaster, the regulation of leased boats and the system of sanctions for water transport, in the same way as we have proposed in the Road Traffic Act. This means introducing a new traffic error charge in water transport instead of fines. We also propose that the law should include all the necessary provisions on the marking of waterways and the control of water transport. Similarly, we propose that the law should include updated bans and restrictions on regional and watercraft types of waterborne transport and provisions on the use of watercraft equipment. In addition, we propose that the law be transposed and updated both with regard to the registration of watercraft and with regard to the qualifications of the master of the recreational craft. The modernisation of the system of sanctions proposed in the reform and the associated system of traffic error charges would be broadly similar to the one proposed for road transport. The proposed combination of transport rules would help to clarify regulation and raise public awareness of regulation, which would probably increase the safety of water transport. The new master regulation on boating would improve supervision by making it easier for public authorities to intervene in dangerous activities. In addition, the proposed management regulation would lower the threshold for the introduction of automation in water transport. Facilitation of boat rental would allow the creation of new services and boating activities for an increasing number of households. A traffic error fee system requires changes to the information systems of the authorities. These changes would be made at the same time as the changes needed in road transport. The costs would be particularly borne by the police. However, the police have welcomed this reform. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2014. on 30 June 2020. The changes we propose mainly concern Mainland Finland. Åland has the right under the Act of Self-Government to its own legislation on recreational craft and local fairways, but trade shipping and related routes fall within the competence of the State. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u125	Ärade fru talman, arade minister! Förslaget om ny sjötrafiklag är tänkt att förbättra skerheten till sjöss och göra båtkulturen mer ansvarsful. Båtkulkulturen är överlag mycket ansvarsful i vårt land, men effecter ett par uppmärksammade och allvarliga båtolyckor i somras är det viktigt att poängtera säkerheten annu mer utan att för den skull införa ny bykrati och mer kostnader på båtfolket. Jag tycker att lagförslaget är vävvägt och ett av huvudsyftena är också att skapa en smidigare och mer översiktlig lagstiftning, som vi just hörde ministern bäjätta. De splittrade reglerna för sjötrafiken ska samlas till en tydligare helhet så att de blir lättaattä att hitta och tillampa då trafikreglerna inklusive sjömärkena samlas på ett stanelle. Lagen kommer till största del inte att tillampas på Åland effectsom fritidsbåtstrafik hör till Ålands självstyrels lagstiftningsbehörighet. Men som svenska riksdagsgruppens enda medlem i kommunikationsutskottet följer jag ändå frågan mycket noga, och trafiken mellan Åbolands skärgård och Ålands skärgård är också mycket livlig på sommaren. Irade the Talman! Frågan om sjötrafiklag är så klart av extra stor betydelse för dem som bor, eller på somrarrarna vistas, vid kusterna i Nyland, Åboland och Österbotten, men också för dem som vistas på insjöarna. Den största förändringen är att fritidsbåtar i framtiden ska ha en befälhavare. Det låter mer dramatiskt än det är. Tidigare har det inte variety klart hur man definierar ansvarsperson eller befälhavare på en fritidsbåt, vilket har skapat svårigheter när man exempelvis har utret olyckor. Befälhavaren kommer via lagen att få ansvar över att köra båten, över att it till att det finns flytvästar åt alla, bedöma farkostens lämplighet för rutten, se till att utrustningen är i skick och att det finns sjökort. Det auri är i practicen redan självklarheter för alla som ger sig ut på sjön, men det auri gör ansvaret tydligare. Inte Heller den nya lagen kommer kräva att flytvästarna ska vara på, utan det räcker att de är med. Men det är naturligtvis att rekommera att ha på sig flytväst hela tiden. Den är en enkel och billig livförsäkring som är viktigare att ha på desto högre hastighet båten körs i och ifall vädret försämras och vinden tiltar. Som sagt är det rauta redan i dag en självklarhet för de allra flesta. Befälhavaren ansvarar också för att det finns sjökort ord och till förfogande om man gör färder som kräver ruttplanering såsom längre färder eller färder på okända vatten. Också det är i practiceken en självklarhet i dag, aven om bestemmelsen nu blir tydlig. Sjökort behöver dock inte finnas ord på båten på ständigt återkommande färder i kända närvatten eller vid korda färder till en ö där man har en stuga eller vid fiske i ett närområde. Också raus tycker jag att lagförslaget gör en bra och förnuftig avvägning. Det krävs ingen utbildning för befälhavaren utan kraven är som nu: tillräcklig ålder, Vilket för Minderåriga bestems av målsman, samt förmåga och kunskap att föra fram fritidsbåtar i Finland. Den andra betydande förändringen är en lindrigare reglering av hyresbåtar. Krav som gäller besiktning av och utrustning på hyresbåtar ska frångås för att främja delningsekonomis så att oanvända båtar ska kunna hyras ut lattar. Den tidigare definitionen av hyresbåtsverksamhet ska uppdelas i nöjestrafik och hyresbåtsverksamhet, så att bara taxiibåtar ska betraktas som hyresbåtar. Definitionen på en taxibåt är en farkost som hyrs ut för sport eller för fritidsändamål bemannad, det vill säga en taxibåt med förare, som i anna nän reguljär trafik medför högst 12 passagerare. I dag krävs förarbrev för hyresbåt av alla som kör hyresbåt, men i framtide krävs det endast av taxibåtsförare, viiket är en bra utveckling för företagare. Den tredje betydande förändringen som föreslås är ett uppdaterat sanctioning system. Det nuvarande systemet med ordningsbot ska ersättas med en avgift för trafikförseelse, som i regel är lädan som den som föreslås gälla vägtrafiken. Definitionerna på straffbara gärningar ska avgränsas bättre, för att battre motsvaa grundlagens 8 § om den straffrättsliga legalitetsprinten. Irade the Talman! Jag ser fram emot att arbeta vidare med lagförslaget i communicationutskottet, där vi kommer att höra sakkunniga. Det är bra med en modern lag för sjötrafiken som slår vakt om säkerheten, men utan att införa detaljreglering. Inga lagar eller detaljer kan nämligen ersätta sjövett, och därför är det klokt att också den nya lagen fortsätter att ätta ansvaret på dem som ger sig ut på sjön. Det är naturligtvis den som ger sig ut på sjön som har det största intresset och anledning att garantera att båten är sjöduglig, vädret tillräckligt bra och att rutten är lämplig. Rollen som befälhavare gör dock ansvaret klarare och gör förhopningsvis att vi kan minska annat olyckor till minimum. För trots att vi har en mycket yrkeskunnig och professoriell sjöbevakning förstarkt av frivillig, men okså ytterst professoriell sjörädding är det i pool intresse att så få som vöjligt hamnar i sjönöd. Irade the Talman! Jag är uppvuxen vid havet, och det är få saker i livet som är mer fantasticskt än att åka ut med båt, att punna vinden, saltstanken och doften av havet. Sommarens båtsäsong är den absoluta höjdpunkten för många ålänningar och finländare. Då vi tidigare under mandaperioden diskuterade förslaget till båtskatt, som vi gudskellov lyckades skjuta i sank, Talade vis populistikt om lyxjakter och yuppieskotrar. Den som talar om det brode besöka kusten, skärgården och Åland. Gästhamnarna påminner inte om Monaco eller jet setet i Miami, utan båtfolket består av helt vanliga finländare, ålänningar och svenskar som ämtar viktiga pengar och arbete ut till skärgården genom att besöka gästhamnar. De allra flesta båtar man ser en vanlig dag på sjön är ganska små och de används som communicationmedel för arbete och för att ta sig ut till stuga eller bara för en tur på sjön med familien. Det är sullan några vrålåk utan kan vara en liten plastbåt byggd av skickliga finska båtbyggare i Österbotten eller Mellersta Finland eller så kan det vara en gammal träsnipa som variant i familiens ägo i generator. Få känslor är dirt underbara som att drunk den sure vinden under ljusa sommarkvällar då man hör putt-putt-ljudet från snipan. Det är ingen ekonomisk lyx, utan balsam för själen. Kort ochgott: livskvalitet. Jag vill därför avsluta med att tacka Minister Berner ox på plats och Communicationsministeriet för ett vägt lagförslag till ny sjötrafiklag. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u126	Madam President! The Water Transport Act under discussion received just the attention it deserved. That is where Mr Löfström described the situation that this new bill brings to boaters and people and tourists living in the archipelago. He also described in an excellent way the atmosphere that leaves the boat. In this way, perhaps it is a rather challenging situation to assess this whole set of laws. The way I see it is that the safety issue is already well taken into account here. When travelling on water, as in road transport, safety must be everything a and o, and that is why this bill has been put together responsibly. This is not about red tape, but about making it easier, as has been the case with everything else during this term of government. This bill is a clear whole, as has been heard here. Archipelago transport — and inland waterway transport, but island transport in particular — is a very important issue for Finnish tourism and it is therefore important that we have clear rules of play. I suppose, could you say, a little boating romance is that calling the boat chief. It is important that there is a skipper in the boat, but this command status is probably an excellent way to emphasise that the master is responsible for moving on the right routes, that the boat is equipped with safety vests that are sufficiently large, and the behaviour in the waters is such gentlemanly traffic. A traffic error charge, like on the road, is probably necessary. Since there the police and border authorities also control water traffic, this kind of error fee is necessary. ‘Responsiblely in the waters’is likely to be appropriate
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u127	Madam President! I too would like to join in thanking Mrs Pakkanen for what she has said to Mr Löfström. He described the fineness of maritime transport in this country very well. Finland's maritime connection to the rest of the world is extremely important to us, our trade shipping, and that is why it is extremely important that this bill, which has now been submitted to Parliament for approval by the Government, is the Water Transport Act, that we get these safety issues in order when we move around the waters. We also have another wealth in Finland, which is far too low for use: these inland waterways in general. Thanks to this geography and the ice age, we have been given inland waters, which are of very little use. It was amazing when last summer my friend and I drove in the waters of Pieline in North Karelia — a great lake there in the heart of North Karelia — and that beautiful summer day two boats appeared to be on the move at the same time. And what is in that huge lake and what is in the lakes of Finland in general, such as Great Saimaa and Päijänne and many others: in these vast areas their use is very limited. Now, this law, which is currently under discussion, helps to clarify this legislation in terms of the movement of the waters and increasing security, and one of the things that is good is that those sanctions are brought to the right level and that they are clearly understandable. But, Mr President, inland waterways are linked to how little we use the transport capacity provided by the waterways in Finland. I have spoken about it ten times in my parliamentary career that we should continue to have the courage to build that channel on the Kymijoki River. Why? Because it would provide us with a huge transport opportunity and, above all, reduce transport costs in this country. As we know, Finland is a country of heavy transport, we transport large masses of wood and many other materials, and in this road transport — as we have seen in recent years when the climate has warmed up and good winters have disappeared — the road trunks are suffering, huge weights are being transferred along the road. The railway network does not reach everywhere, and it is expensive to build, but there is no need to sacrifice anything to build the waterways. Those waterways already exist. Of course we need to repair the fairways and build a few locks, and if we made the Kymijoki Canal, which would combine the river basins of Päijänne and Saimaa, it would create a huge transport capacity in this country that would really give the Finnish forest industry a significant competitive advantage. If you follow the speeches made by representatives of the forest industry at various parties, they will pay attention to two things: The cost is the one to which attention is always paid, that is clear. The responsible business manager always takes that into account. But the second is this, which is precisely what transport costs are so enormous. We are losing a lot in it for Sweden, and I hope that this issue will be taken seriously and, among other things, will be spent on the European TENs for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u128	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 11. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u129	Madam President! The main objective of the draft law on passenger ship safety is to implement the amending directives on passenger ship safety. The Directives aim at modernising, simplifying and clarifying regulations, which are also important for Finland. Changes are proposed to the laws on technical safety and safe operation of the ship, passenger ship lists and ship safety monitoring. In addition to the implementation of the directives, the proposal proposes to make changes to the roadworthiness test obligations and to supplement the legislation with provisions on traditional vessels and professional boats. The aim of the review is to increase the transparency of maritime surveillance and to streamline regulation. The proposal proposes that the safety assessment of certain types of ships be entrusted to shipowners instead of surveyors in the future. It is also proposed that the annual survey of the hull of a vessel used for winter services should be abandoned. These changes would reduce the costs of roadworthiness testing for shipowners and increase the flexibility of safety assessment. These changes would reduce the administrative burden on both the shipowner and the authority, and would also reduce the regulatory burden. The proposal also proposes to introduce provisions on traditional vessels into the law. The aim is to allow the inspection of traditional vessels and to allow traditional vessels to be subject to their own technical regulations. These changes could better take into account the structural solutions and cultural historical values of traditional vessels, which would improve the small-scale commercial use of traditional vessels. Madam President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the main objective of the changes is to streamline and streamline regulation, and I hope that the proposal will also be dealt with smoothly in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u130	Madam President! This government proposal is also in line with A familiar pattern of the Sipilä government: the security issue is ahead of us here too. Clarity is another aspect of this government's proposal when it comes to new requirements for boat surveying. It is particularly important that this winter survey issue should be slightly reduced. With regard to the provisions on traditional ships, I would normally consider the surveying and traditional vessels very important, because Finland is a renowned wooden boat builder and especially in that south-eastern Finland we still have wood boat construction to this day. I would also like to see such traditional builders benefit from the fact that this valuable hand craft does not die in Finland and the operating conditions of these people, who today maintain and want to operate them or at their own disposal, would be eased. Traditional boating is such a cultural historical act that it should be promoted, and I hope that particular attention will be paid to this issue in committee, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u131	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 12. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u132	Madam President! The proposal proposes to introduce a new trade mark law to replace the existing trade mark law and the collective mark law, which has become obsolete from a regulatory point of view. The proposal would implement the European Parliament and Council Trade Marks Directive. At the same time, the Singapore Agreement on trade mark law would be implemented nationally. The right to a trade mark shall give its proprietor an exclusive right to a particular registered or established mark. This exclusive right also includes a right of prohibition, which means that the proprietor of a trade mark may, under certain conditions, prohibit others from using the same or similar mark. The trade mark is part of the property of the trader and can be used commercially. The Trade Marks Act would provide, inter alia, for the content and conditions of the exclusive right relating to the trade mark, the registration of the trade mark, the loss and annulment of the trade mark and the infringement of the trade mark. The law would also provide for Community and audit marks and international registrations. It also proposes to provide for a procedure for specifying the lists of goods and services for certain trade marks, which aims, inter alia, to clarify the register of trade marks and to harmonise its interpretation. It is proposed to provide for a new administrative procedure for the revocation and revocation of the trade mark and for the administrative procedure for the revocation of the trade name within the Patent and Registration Board. These new administrative procedures would provide a cheaper and faster alternative to the repeal of a trade mark or trade name in court proceedings. In addition to the procedure for the administrative annulment of the title, the proposal also proposes otherwise amendments to the Act on Trade Names. It is proposed to amend the Act on Business Names so that it would also be possible to partially repeal the business name only for a part of the industry. It is also proposed that, under certain conditions, the holder of the trade mark should demonstrate the actual use of his trade mark in opposition and annulment proceedings. The proposal proposes to amend the criminal law on the regulation of intellectual property offences and the model law on the regulation of model infringement. The laws would be specified in such a way that the provisions on criminal offences and offences in question would also cover EU-wide trade mark and design rights. A similar amendment would also be proposed to be made to the new provision on trade mark infringement of the Trade Mark Act. The proposed laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2019. However, the Regulation would provide for the entry into force of the Singapore Agreement Act. The Singapore Act is intended to enter into force at the same time as it enters into force for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u133	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 13/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u134	Mr President! I would like to take this opportunity to express my sense of duty in a speech by the chairman of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance. In this case, Finland and the Netherlands will begin to apply the International Standard for Automatic Exchange of Information published by the OECD in relation to Aruba on mutual exchange of tax information, in practice on the exchange of financial account information. Consequently, a separate agreement between two States, The Netherlands has already made a denunciation, becoming redundant, and Finland is now repealing the Act on the Adoption of the Treaty in due course as of 1 January 2019. Everyone knows, of course, Aruba, but if anyone does not know, I can tell you that Aruba is an island belonging to the Kingdom of the Netherlands in the Caribbean, off Venezuela. It has a population of 103,000 and the largest city of Oranjestad. It should be noted that Aruba has not been notified of the interest income generated by the savings held there for persons resident in Finland. The agreement has only concerned interest income, and the automatic exchange of information under the new legal basis covers not only interest income but also dividends and proceeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u135	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 14/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u136	This is an amendment to the agreement between the Nordic countries on double taxation of income and wealth taxes. The Protocol on this was signed on 29 August 2018. The protocol provisions mainly concern the fight against tax evasion. The Protocol contains legislative provisions and is therefore to be adopted by Parliament in accordance with Article 94(1) of the Constitution. The Protocol shall enter into force on 30 May. on the date of notification by all States Parties to the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the adoption of the Protocol.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-24-ps-106.u137	Madam President! This amendment, which has been tabled, is of a very technical nature, as can be seen from this committee's report. This double tax agreement between the Nordic countries on income and wealth taxes does not go into much depth. I am sure that this change in the law itself is all right and proper, but I have taken the floor to raise the concerns of the wider Nordic tax treaty, which dates back to the 1960s. There is still a great deal to be said about the fact that the young people are now retiring and, in the early 60s and 70s, they moved to Sweden a lot and then, now that they are retired, some of them return to their region of origin. Unfortunately, however, in some areas of taxation there must be a constant message from border regions between Finland and Sweden that pensioners feel that they are being taxed harder. They pay taxes both to Finland and Sweden. This has led some of these Finns who would like to move back to Finland to live on the Swedish side of the border, because their taxes would be so much stricter if they came to Finland. There have been many attempts to clarify this issue and there have also been negotiations with the Ministry of Finance. Of course, there are also other issues to be updated in this tax agreement, as there has certainly been a great increase in mobility between the Nordic countries over the last 50 years. However, the Ministry of Finance has been regrettably penetrating on these changes, as has been suggested, for example, through North Norden or through joint Nordic cooperation. Next week the Nordic Council will meet in Oslo, and in fact we will meet with the Norwegian Minister for Finance by the Border Barriers Group. I think this is a little bit like a gap in tax cooperation at the Nordic level. In the Nordic Council, for example, ministers of finance do not meet regularly, unlike ministers of other administrative sectors. Of course, tax policy issues are purely national legislative powers, and that must be the case, but it would be very important to be able to review and update these old agreements. It would also be very important for finance ministers to have an active Nordic dialogue. For example, there is going to be a case in which Sweden will cease to pay the guarantee pension for tens of thousands, if not for hundreds of thousands of Finnish guaranteed pensioners, if they are currently living in Finland, and these people will then be covered by the Finnish guarantee pension. This will, of course, cost us, the state, which is understandable.
