ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u1	The 12th item of the order of business is presented for the purpose of presenting the interim question. Representative Touko Aalto and 71 other representatives have asked the Government an intermediate question on equality in education and training on VK 1/2018 vp. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u2	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. I'm going to introduce you to Minister Häkkänen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u3	Mr President, ärade talman! In 2016, approximately 346,000 cases were resolved in the District Courts of Finland. The Government's proposal proposes that these summary disputes, in practice debt cases, be concentrated on nine district courts. These matters are currently handled by all district courts in Finland. According to the presentation, summary matters would be concentrated on district courts in Åland, Helsinki, Eastern Uusimaa, Kymenlaakso, Lapland, Oulu, Pirkanmaa, Ostrobothnia and Varsinais-Suomi. This concentration would speed up and improve the efficiency of the handling of summary disputes. With fewer district courts dealing with summary disputes, the differences in handling practices and handling times would be reduced and the current level of harmonisation would be reduced. The centralisation of the processing process would also contribute to the accumulation of staff skills. Concentration would increase the equality of both debtors and creditors and the availability of legal protection in Finland. It has been asked why the handling of summary disputes is not carried over to enforcement. This is due to the fact that the transfer of the debt case to the executing authority has been estimated to undermine the legal protection of the debtor. In addition, mandatory legislation of its own accord with consumer contracts is in favour of continuing proceedings before the courts. This concentration can improve the efficiency of the operation without jeopardising legal certainty. The Government's proposal proposes to increase the use of electronic procedures in summary disputes. Natural persons — i.e. legal persons, traders, natural persons carrying out professional recovery activities and agents and advisers — who are not involved in their own case would be obliged to submit applications for suspensory litigation to the district court’s information system using the information system of the judicial administration or the network-based interface. The proposals will reduce judicial expenditure by an estimated EUR 800000. These changes adapt the functioning of the courts to the clear savings in the operating costs of the courts already included in the central government spending limits. The reform relates to the reform of the district court network approved last year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u4	Madam President! This government proposal seems fine in principle, because it focuses on digitalisation, digitalisation in various administrative sectors, different authorities, and especially on the savings that come from it. It is good that efforts are being made to speed up the handling of summary disputes. From the perspective of the Finns Party, it would be important to get the resources of the district courts to deal with the more demanding disputes, their main, core task for which they are primarily there. I would also like to ask the Minister whether you take note of these demands of the Finns, that it is precisely these most difficult issues that resources are made available and that legal certainty is increased and that the decisions are first and foremost made within a reasonable period of time, i.e. the duration of the proceedings. So this is not just about saving and pinching the judiciary without getting more resources there for the judicial system itself, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u5	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister once again for his good work. This presentation is long awaited and excellent. It is a fact that concentration on such summary matters is everything a and o. Workers get used to doing that particular job, they do it better, and at the same time it is fair to all parties. There's gonna be savings. It's perfectly clear. But digitalization is also here everything a and o, because these if things are such that they can easily be handled online and not even require anyone to attend, and this is how it should be today. Distances are thus reduced to minimal. These are great reforms. However, it may be widely held that it was decided at one time to keep this in district courts so that the enforcement authorities did not deal with it, as they do in Sweden. I know there are certain international challenges, but this decision has been taken, and this is the best possible solution and the government's proposal in this situation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice, when, from experience on the part of the state administration, these information systems are delaying — and there are many sad examples — how it is with regard to these summations, whether these information systems are in a state-of-the-art condition on the day when this summarizing procedure begins to be centralised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u6	Madam President! From the Sipilä Government, this transfer of summary, simple disputes to centralised units and hence the reduction of processing is a very sensible reform and part of the wider streamlining of regulation and the reduction of unnecessary bureaucracy. As a lawyer, I see that this is also a question of the limited resources of the judiciary being used for the very most difficult cases and not for these very simple things, where, in a certain way, the district court acts a little like a mailbox, while then the real debt is going out of the way. But like the previous speaker, Mr Tolvanen, I am a little surprised, and perhaps I would like to hear from the Minister why we could not go directly to the situation in Finland that is in place in some countries, especially in Sweden, our neighbours and, according to the information I have received in Austria, that such clear, simple, summatic disputes could be brought into direct enforcement. Why did the government continue to decide that the district court stage should be involved? It would be nice to hear a little reflection about what's behind it. Mr President! When dealing with these summary disputes, such a wider social phenomenon, which is behind it and which is perhaps worth raising here too, is that Finns are increasingly in debt. After all, these are practically all debt claims. There's a lot of stuff in there from those famous quicksands to cell phone bills. Of course, this debt problem is something for which we should be able to actually do something by adults. That's another one. I believe that the Sipilä Government has taken action, and it would be nice to hear from the Minister of Justice what is to be done to facilitate the position of the over-indebted in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u7	Madam President! It is excellent that we are now concentrating our work on these uncontested debt issues, these summarizing issues. In this way, knowledge is concentrated, processing speeds up and provides a wide range of benefits. But here I agree with the amazement, and I would also say that perhaps this reform was a short one and should have been bold in this and made straight to the point that these completely uncontroversial issues could have been resolved through the enforcement procedure. If there was a feeling that there was a need for a district court procedure, even if there could have been an appeal procedure as an opportunity to do so. I'm not doing this right now. More power would have been gained if the powers of the bailiff had been directly increased, and these clear things would have gone that way. However, there are quite a few, as noted, over 340,000 of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u8	Mr President! In the same way as the previous speakers themselves, I think that it would certainly have been smarter to act as those liquidators put forward in the autumn of 2014, who explained this question of summarizing, that these should be concentrated primarily on the enforcement authority, which, if you think of a small bill of twenty or fifty, would be one authority that deals with such an issue, no longer the district court and then the enforcement authority. This would have created efficiency, which would ultimately have been in favour of the debtors as a reduction in costs, and this, if I remember correctly, seems to have been arranged in Sweden and Austria. In the alternative, they suggested that if this is not done, then a few district courts will be centralized, and now we are on the way. However, I very much understand the arguments which the Minister also stated in his presentation that there are aspects of legal security that we want to ensure, but of course I would have seen that it would have been better to have looked a little further into whether these potential problems could be tackled in any way. After all, if such a summary procedure were transferred to the enforcement authority, then in every situation that procedure would be served on the debtor of the party, and then he could challenge, and it would then rise to the district court again. But either way, this is where we are now, and yet this is a clear improvement and a good proposal, and in this situation there is full support for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u9	Mr President, värderade talman! I too agree with those representatives who are now asking where the rapporteur's proposal was lost along the way. It may be that this is how it is going to work, but at the same time there are a number of questions here where answers still need to be given: What are the great benefits of this reform when entering the system of nine out of 20 district courts in the future dealing with these simple debt issues? What will happen to court practice, for example? In today’s court practice, dealing with these very cases has been quite important for future notaries, future judges. What's going to happen here? And in practice these matters have also been handled very much by the staff. Will this increase in resources, or how will it be dealt with in practice in these nine courts? And then the question — if such a debt case is challenged — to which district court will it be sent: what is the district court that will finish it? It would be good to have the Minister's answer to that question as well. Then a completely different matter, now that we have a minister present: the fine was a matter of much debate during the last term of the government. I myself brought a motion to the Chamber which was also approved by Parliament during the last parliamentary term. The first steps taken by the Minister of Justice of this government were to withdraw it completely. Now I've read somewhere that the new Justice Minister is back thinking we should do something about it. That is why I ask: why did you at all withdraw the proposal that had already been adopted in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u10	Mr President! I shall now intervene in these summarizing matters of recovery. The fact is that when people go to the hospital for example or to the laboratory for a fee of about EUR 40, it is a sumary payment that must be paid, and if it is not paid, the practice today is that they go to the collection office first and if they do not get it through the collection office, then it will be brought to court and it will become an additional cost before it is transferred to voudi. That means that the EUR 40 recovery will easily increase to nearly EUR 300. Is there a right and fairness in these summatic recovery cases, which are things people are forced to go to, such as a doctor, but there is no money to pay, that their burden will be increased by recycling this payment through the district court, because the district court will add to it its own costs, and it will undoubtedly be paid by the debtor? It is right that the debtor should pay for what he has taken, but it would be good to have moderation in everything. In other words, dealing mainly with these summary recovery cases: Is it, then, going directly from there to be recovered by voud, or is it, then, perhaps, that we should talk to a person and also take social considerations into account? We have a mess coming, where we can take such things into account, so that we do not confuse people’s lives completely. It must be borne in mind, Minister, that when there is no money, then in that municipality the social expenditure is packed to grow from one end to the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u11	Värderade fru talman! Propositionen innebär en centralisering och en ökad digitalisering av handläggningen av summäriska ärenden och tvistemål. Cent-ralisering är alltid problematiskt för de enter som förlorar uppgifter, effectersom arbetsuppgifterna med de summiska tvistemålen har variantt viktiga för en tingsrätts hehet. Det är också viktigt att de tingsrätter dit de centraliseras har tillräckliga resorter. Beredningen av propositionen föregicks av ett betankande från en av justtieministeriet tilsatt arbetsgrupp. I Gruppen lämnade bland you give inkassoföretagens represent avvikande åsikt på grund av att de summiska irendena skulle centraliseras till Tavastehus från Åbo. Det har dock regeringen inte gått in för, bonket är positivt. Ifall ärendena hade centraliserats från Åbo till Tavastehus hade det nämnligen också inneburit stora problem för handläggningen av Svenskspråkiga ärenden i Egentliga Finland och Åboland. Egentliga Finlands tingsrätt fungerar på två språk medan Egentliga Tavastlands tingsrätt bara fungerar på ett språk. Centralisingen hade därför riskarat att kraftigt försämra servicen på svenska för de Svenskspråkiga i Åboland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u12	Madam President! Many have thanked this proposal, but, on the other hand, there have also been a lot of issues to be clarified and questions that have arisen. It is of particular interest to me, too, to the needy, over-indebted people, what it means for their legal protection when recovery goes to district courts and not through the enforcement authorities, as the liquidator has suggested, and, on the other hand, whether there could also be a return to the plight of these over-indebted people. The background is also that the district court network has been severely reduced, so it is also a good idea to take account of the impact on this performance. After all, many things are being digitally transferred, which is, of course, sensible and effective in the present time, but I would like to ask the Minister how the current systems work in relation to this reform. Are there sufficient reforms to the systems now, or are there still some of the information system reforms needed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u13	Madam President! Minister, I agree with these comments from the representatives on many points and I would also like to ask myself whether there is still a government proposal to improve the position of the over-indebted in this parliamentary term. On the other hand, of course, digitalisation and the transition to an electronic procedure are also of interest, because we still have a lot of large areas in this country where these digital connections do not work properly. How much resources have now been planned for this? Of course, it is of interest to see how these savings targets of EUR 800000 are targeted and how this calculation has been achieved. Of course, we hope in all this Chamber that these such uncontroversial matters can be dealt with effectively, effortlessly and with citizens' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u14	Secretary Häkkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u15	Mr President! First of all, on this broader problem picture: in Finland, citizens are currently in debt at a rather worrying rate for households, individual people. There are more and more records of defaults and more and more enforcement clients. This, of course, requires that these processes be speeded up but, above all, that they be invested in preventive services. Surely much more emphasis should be put on the school stage already. In order to increase our own economic independence and economic competence, we should certainly be able to avoid debt in the years to come. I have also moved on with the resources of debt counselling, and they will now be added right here in the near future. A lot of people asked if this should be transferred to the enforcement authority. From the EU countries this is only used in Sweden at the moment, and we are closely monitoring how Swedish practices are formed. But it has seen a legal security problem because the authority issuing the decision would then be the same as the authority initiating the enforcement, and there are few such principles which are problematic from the point of view of the rule of law if the same person actually influences its enforcement — first makes a decision and then implements it. In principle, these powers of judicial authorities should not be built in such a way that they are in the same hands, but in different hands, in order to be able to check whether they have acted properly. In these cases, of course, when it comes to small sums, I would like to say that the temptation would be to transfer them to the same hands. That would be more effective, but it is a legal solution, and then we must be quite careful that they are in different hands. But this must now be monitored in the years to come, and if there are mechanisms to achieve effective action and legal certainty in the same hands, then reform can be carried forward, but now this is in the courts because of the concentration of activities and the introduction of electronic procedures, not only of enhanced activity but also of legal protection for every citizen in that very, very sad situation. Then on the question of language: In order to defend the Swedish language, I concentrated these activities in Turku. So, as I'm sure the people who followed this have noticed, they changed the motion in the autumn. I wanted to do so in part on the basis of language. Of course, Turku has more knowledge, but the language basis was also central to this. Briefly: The operational benefits are great when skills can be concentrated and enhanced. On the other hand, harmonised solutions are available to citizens across Finland. And thirdly, financial savings are one factor in this. So many different benefits come. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u16	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a well-considered reply. Indeed, a reasonable debt and a lack of quarrel would have been such carrots as to extend this perhaps to some with a sum limit in order to gain experience. It was surprising, of course, that only Sweden has such a model, but it does say more about Swedish innovation than that this would be a bad thing. Indeed, I hope that very soon we will be able to return to this issue. I do not regard it as a problem for anyone's legal security if the debt of fifty is quickly dealt with when it is completely uncontroversial and nobody's life does stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u17	Värderade Talman! Jag vill också för egen del tacka för att ministern gick in för att det blev tingsrätten i Åbo som får handlägga ärenden som har att göra med Åland. Det var ett mycket bra beslut och det är vi tacksamma för.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u18	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister if it could be thought, as I understood it, that there are two different authorities, one is ordered and the other is ordered to do so, that if the debtor agrees to do so, the matter will be dealt with directly in the event of enforcement, which will also save him these costs — that is to say, he will waive the right of another authority to deal with the matter, because ultimately the debtor will pay the costs of the whole process. If there is a small amount, then the cost of the process may be many times as much as the amount involved. As far as the economy is concerned, this is where all the parties involved who are doing this work are easily doing unnecessary work, because there is no economic gain in this as such. This will create employment, but not profits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u19	One more answer to the minister, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u20	Mr President! Indeed, the fine was abolished about ten years ago. Since then, there has been recognition and awareness of the problems that have begun to arise, i.e. the behaviour itself, which knows that there is a loophole in the law, which, in practice, can be left unpunished by acting in a certain way. This is a problem that was also tackled during the last parliamentary term. Before the time of my ministerial career, a decision was taken which did not take this issue forward on the resource side. Now, in the ministry, I have re-launched this preparation, which is now looking for the most cost-effective and inexpensive solutions to ensure that some form of punishment also comes to those who, for example, repeatedly shoplift or steal from those shops. Preparations are under way here, but in the spring we will now see where we will end up. It is part of the resources involved, part of the appropriate sanctions policy as a whole. This will enable the resources of the district courts to be concentrated on the very essential issues that have actually been raised in the legal judgement of the district courts, i.e., now that electronic procedures are introduced, the resources saved can be taken into account in the fact that the district courts are able to use more resources and concentration capacity in those most difficult cases. The situation of the information systems was asked several times. In the area of justice administration, as in other administrative sectors, there have been challenges of its own with information systems, but in this respect the civil service has also been a little more confident than it may have been with some other projects. The impact of court practice, how this affects, is now being monitored. Since these have in practice been the basic routine there, we are now watching how this effect is going to happen. Similarly, with regard to the district court network, more attention will have to be paid to this in the coming years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u21	Mr President! It is good that the Minister is now considering how the matter of the conversion of the fine could be dealt with, but it is, of course, amusing that during the last period, when this matter was taken care of and when the coalition was also in the government, it was completed, and here in particular the representatives of the Coalition Party had called for this reform, and then this government, which now has the portfolio of the Minister of Finance and the portfolio of the Minister of Justice, cancels the whole package and also the money. I find it quite amusing, and that is why I think this is a legitimate and well-founded question to ask you right now, because it was your group and also a few Finns who, during the last term of government, were very busy in calling for this. Now you see that when you have power and responsibility, you also have to know how to answer questions and show that results come.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u22	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Presentation, Minister Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u23	Mr President, ärade talman! The rule of law must aim to ensure that every citizen has access to the courts in his or her own case as far as possible. This objective requires consideration of a wide range of aspects. One important aspect of this is to ensure that the courts are given sufficient opportunities to organise their actions and work in a reasonable manner. The procedures of the courts must be flexible in everyday life and we, as legislators, must allow for more flexible procedures, without compromising legal protection. For this reason, a proposal has now been brought before Parliament to ease the judicial process so that legal security remains strong. The amendments proposed in the proposal will ease legal procedures in the general courts. In accordance with the Government Programme, the aim is to shorten court proceedings, inter alia, by making the rules governing the composition of courts more flexible and allowing courts to concentrate on core tasks. The aim is also to increase the use of video consultation in court proceedings. The decision-making power of the composition of one judge in the District Court in criminal matters would be extended. A criminal case could be dealt with in the composition of a single judge if the offence referred to in the charge could be sentenced to a maximum of 4 years in prison. As a new configuration option, the district court proposes the composition of two judges. The quorum of the Supreme Court would also be reduced in certain categories of case. In order to facilitate the challenge of people who are difficult to reach, it is proposed that the prosecutor may order the suspect to remain on the scene at the place of the preliminary investigation authority for a maximum period of 6 hours. The duty of the accused to be personally present at the main hearing would be relaxed. The aim is to reduce the number of cancellations due to the absence of the accused and thus to improve the efficiency of the criminal procedure. The defendant should continue to be present in person at the main proceedings if the court considers that such presence is necessary. According to the proposal, the accused could be sentenced to imprisonment without having been personally consulted unless the court considers it necessary to be present. The proposal does not apply to underage defendants. However, as a general rule, the accused should be present personally in the main proceedings of the District Court if he or she is accused of a criminal offence for which the most severe sentence is at least 6 years in prison. The use of video communication in the trial would be expanded. Increasing the use of video access would improve the efficiency of the Court’s work and reduce the travel of the parties to the proceedings and thus the costs of the proceedings. It would be possible for the accused to take part in the trial in its entirety through videoconferencing, where it is only possible to do so today when the accused is heard for the purpose of proof. It would also be possible for the prosecutor, the party to the dispute and the lawyer or lawyer to take part in the proceedings through a video link. The proposal also includes a proposal for a reduction in the procedure for the conversion of the fine. The proposal contains three proposals: the use of videoconferencing equipment in the case of a fine in court; the Court could not decide on the payment of a fine in the course of the conversion penalty procedure; and — thirdly — The Register Centre could provide time for payment of the fine after the conversion procedure. The last two proposals would mean that the allocation of payment time would be concentrated in the Legal Register Centre. This would clarify the payment of the fine, since only one authority would decide the time limits for payment during the conversion procedure. To some extent, the proposals seek to simplify the procedure of the conversion penalty, which has also been required by Parliament. In the future, further efforts will be made to improve the efficiency of the conversion penalty procedure in connection with the information system projects of the courts and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. In this context, no changes to the conditions for the conversion of the fine are proposed. The proposal therefore does not extend the current use of the conversion penalty, referring to the recent debate. In this respect, the Ministry of Justice is currently exploring the possibilities for progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u24	Madam President! In general, the objectives of streamlining judicial processes are very welcome. It is understandable that the so-called idleness in the judiciary should be reduced, for example, by reducing the obligation of the accused to be present in the main proceedings, under certain conditions. On the other hand, replacing live attendance, for example, with video connections, is in many cases only today. Increasing the use of the composition of a single judge is, in principle, understandable under strict conditions, but I do not think it is entirely risk-free. However, we cannot afford to undermine legal protection from Finns, even by accident. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the critical opinion of the Parliamentary Ombudsman on this law. The Ombudsman makes the following statement on the proposal to extend the scope of the composition of a single Judge: ‘I do not support the extension of the scope of the composition of a single Judge. On the contrary, there should be a significant increase in the possibilities for the District Courts to use larger professional court formations. In recent years, our legal security systems have been weakened not only in the form of direct resource cuts but also by undesirable changes in the system, such as the extension of the extension of the licensing system without corresponding increases in district court resources, increases in court fees, etc.” In this context, the extension of the scope of the composition of a single judge could therefore mean legal security challenges for us. At least the Ombudsman calls this step to reduce the level of legal protection. Mr President! I hope that this is not the case, and I hope that in the further proceedings we will all draw attention to the fact that, when we carefully define the types of judicial formations to be used, we will make sure that this does not hamper the functioning of justice and, on the other hand, does not undermine the conditions under which judges operate in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u25	Madam President! Mr Parviainen made an excellent speech in drawing attention to this Ombudsman's opinion. Looks like it's a court day like this. There will be a pipeline of these performances that have been decided to import during this season, and good so. This has certainly been the case, and listening to the voice of the judiciary has also been observed here. There is also a desire to broaden the scope for reflection, so I personally support this proposal. I hope that, in committee, we will then carefully examine the possible legal security issues, because, in a way, the solutions on the level of legal protection that have now been adopted, which have now been several, may together form a very significant negative or downward direction in obtaining legal protection and in implementing it regionally and linguistically on a very multi-level basis. All of these have been taken into account by the Ombudsman, but these have not been taken into account by Parliament in its decision. I hope that, from this point of view too, there will be a little more discussion as to why it is that we have these bodies which assess the legislative work, which make rather critical statements, then, in most cases, ignore the final report and the decision. I do not think this is a good development. But at the end of the day, I am in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u26	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen, we have an effective Minister of Justice, and that is why these proposals come at a rapid pace. Once again, this is an excellent presentation. After all, we in the courts are faced with the very fact that there is, you can say, the whole symphony orchestra together, but then the one is missing, the first violinist, the accused. The whole concert is canceled, the whole session is canceled. There are lawyers, witnesses, lawyers, a big pack of lawyers, but then there's no reason for the defendant to want to show up and put a stop to the whole thing. This is a great innovation now that in these certain cases, which may not be followed by a terrible prison sentence, the accused is no longer necessarily needed there if he does not want to come, and the use of remote communication will further alleviate this issue. That's the way it's supposed to be. This saves substantial sums and reduces this idleness. It's a great thing that we can stop a suspect in a pre-trial investigation now, and the prosecutor can sue him right away in the pre-trial investigation. In other words, it makes it more effective not to have to run after a loose man or woman like this and not have to put out an APB on him and so on. Great reforms. They make justice much more effective. And this is the composition of the court: however, we have so many wise judges and I value them so much that they know because it is a difficult matter in law, because we have to take more professional judges to that particular sitting. But then there are things that are easy legally, and the judges themselves say that we do not need such a large composition here, but that can be handled by a single judge's system. In view of this extension of the procedure, which is now not directly related to this, but which has been put forward in the past, I believe that this is an effective exercise of justice, where we are now going and what we are trying to achieve. Good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u27	Madam President! There is, therefore, a government proposal to lighten the composition of judges and, in particular, the cases where the use of a single judge is increased, since this is already being introduced in cases where you can be sentenced to up to four years of imprisonment. The question then arises as to whether legal protection will be granted in these cases or, in particular, whether the rights of the victim will be fulfilled. I do think that the committee should consider whether this limit of imprisonment is appropriate for the hearings of a single judge. Indeed, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has been critical of this extension of the scope of the composition of a single judge and has called, rather, for a wider range of professional judges to be used in district courts. Do you have any measures or plans in the board to increase the professionalism of judges and the professional competence of the formations of judges? In my opinion, the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, made a good speech in the light of the fact that the length of criminal proceedings in the courts will be prolonged in vain many times if the accused does not arrive, and of course everyone suffers from it, and money will be wasted when everyone has arrived, but the sitting will be cancelled because the accused has not arrived. This is a reform that has been expected, and the fact that more videoconferencing is also an effective, worthwhile and also a good thing for traceability. Of course, it requires that the courtrooms are equipped with good equipment and that information systems also work. I would like further clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u28	Madam President! I, too, would say that this proposal to change the legal cycle is a step in the right direction. It seems to me that some aspects of the reduction in the composition of the Court of Justice seem to go a long way. On the other hand, of course, the reduction applies to the district court level and the handling of more serious criminal cases rarely remains at the district court level, but then moves to other levels of justice. I also believe that increasing distance participation is justified. As has already been said here, too often those criminal proceedings are cancelled because the accused is absent. This will, of course, entail unnecessary costs, but it will also harm the party concerned. However, in this committee we must carefully assess whether the limits that have now been proposed are in the right direction and in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u29	Madam President! I can promise you that once again the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will deal with this matter thoroughly in a good spirit, as always. There are a lot of members of the Legal Committee here. I'm sure there'll be an in-depth hearing. But I would like to go back to this so-called one-judge system, a lightened composition, while there are cases in that court and then there are cases again. If there is a clear case, the suspect, the accused confesses, there are witnesses, there are the plaintiffs present, there are medical certificates or there is no other evidence, so that there will be no evidence problems, then there may be a question of measuring the penalty, and I understand that is quite formal what I have heard from the judges. Does it have to be a very big set-up? Can't that one judge really handle this? I think so. Then again, if there is a different case, whether the evidence is assessed, there is weak evidence and there must be an assessment of whether it is sufficient or not, or there is a legal precedent, it will probably require the composition of more than one judge. However, as I said earlier, I trust our judges and the judiciary that they will be able to decide independently and think how many professional judges are required to do this, whether there are any specific features in this matter or whether it can be handled by a single judge. I think this is perfectly justified because, as I said, there are things and things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u30	Madam President! Thus, as a member of the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Police and Internal Security, it is interesting to listen to the views of the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and as a result of this listening, I was left with a question in my mind, so I thought I would ask when the honourable minister is here. With regard to this one-judge procedure, the chairman of the committee felt that the judges could take this decision on a case-by-case basis. However, in the name of legal protection for citizens and also in the name of equal treatment, I would like to ask what is the Minister's point of view, whether this consideration should be left to the judges in this context on a case-by-case basis, or whether it should be described more precisely in legislation, possibly in regulations, in order to avoid situations of legal protection for citizens, that judges in different places would interpret this order differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u31	Madam President! The chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, quite rightly summed up the essence of this matter, so that there are things in the District Court that are quite so-called clear cases, that is, once the crime has been committed and it has been found, investigated and the evidence is unblemished and so on, then there is no longer any need to burden the judicial system. And secondly, it must also be remembered that, in our present system, if someone who has gone through such a case and who has been convicted feels that his right has been violated, then of course he has the possibility of further appeal, so that it does not exclude it. But in my opinion, settling such clear issues with the help of many judges consumes resources, and the wisdom is that bureaucracy is being dismantled on this side too, and precisely so that the focus is concentrated where there are big, serious cases. Examples include, for example, some serious financial crimes where there is a real need for bets. There's a lot of things in there that you should bet on. It is extremely important for the functioning of society and also for the tax revenue received by the state. Of course, issues relating to human integrity are also important, but let us not forget that it does not add any value to this society to establishing self-evident issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u32	Madam President! It is certainly not a matter of adding value to self-evident matters, but when you go through border cases, it is a matter of legal certainty and a smooth judicial process. At the end of the last period, I was honoured to be a representative of the parliamentary working group on internal security and justice led by Mr Tolvanen, and that same debate took place in that working group. When the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who is rightly and rightly carefully listened to here in Parliament, has expressed critical views on this issue, I would ask the Minister again: how do you see the point of view of this Parliament's Ombudsman? And in this regard: do we in this perhaps well-intentioned thinking in itself have the risk of rushing things forward at the expense of the quality of the rush? I know you from that committee work as a committee colleague and colleague of Parliament, and I have appreciated you very much in your desire and ability to address these issues as a lawyer. How do you see this quality so the baby doesn't go with the bath water?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u33	Mr President! In this debate, it has emerged that the number of judges would also be possible to decide between judges on a case-by-case basis. Of course, it does sound reasonable in itself, and I would like to know more about it whether it is really the case that the law will then give light, at the discretion of the various cases, to consider the number of judges. On the other hand, as Mr Kari said earlier, the resources are small and it may be that there can be hasty decisions and legal certainty. However, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has been critical of this and I am sure that the Committee on Legal Affairs should carefully consult and consider the various aspects. In this same opinion, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has also expressed concern that the Ministry of Justice has been cut so enormously over the years that it alone undermines legal certainty. Mr Häkkänen, how do you see the future development of your own industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u34	And then a reply to the Minister, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u35	Mr President! On this issue of legal security and the composition of a single judge: Legal security in Finland is at the top of many world indicators, but at the same time we also face financial challenges. Legal certainty and the administration of justice have not been decoupled somehow from the budget, as a separate island from social welfare funding, or About the military or anything, but we're going to have to go through the same struggle all the time as everyone else. At least, in my opinion, the administration of justice and security are the core tasks of the state, and that is why they must be extremely careful and precise. We still have to take measures to improve efficiency, but, as I said, all these proposals have been drafted in such a way that the legal protection of citizens is a matter of priority. I am not going to bring forward any proposals that would somehow jeopardise legal certainty for some fundamentals, but to make use of the new technology, our highly trained, qualified professional judges and give the Lamans room for discretion at the District Court to consider whether there is a simple, uncontroversial — or not uncontroversial but simple — case, in which case the composition of a single judge can be used. In other words, there is room for discretion for this to apply to the region, because it is not possible here at the legislative stage to see what the evidence of the situation is now in some cases or other. This is what the courts are doing today, and we must trust, as has been trusted in the past, our professional judges in that level of competence and independence. This whole thing is extremely well thought out and well thought out. If we had money like the Norwegians, we could probably make a few different decisions, but now we have to take into account the core issues of the rule of law and the question of legal security and, at the same time, a little more effective action. But everything is done in such a way that the fundamental rights and legal protection of citizens are well taken into account. The chairman of the committee has made good comments on several occasions. Among other things, Mr Tolvanen raised the question of the obligation of the accused to be present, which in practice is quite clear in terms of cooperation with the police and in the direction of the judiciary, that it is very often the case that it is not possible to get the accused to appear and incur unnecessary costs of withdrawing and transferring hearings, the costs of legal proceedings, the fees of judges, so this is just such a practical rationalization too. The Court of Justice will soon be set up precisely because it will take even greater care in the future to train and specialise judges. With regard to the future of the area of justice, I would say that things look good for the judiciary, but how, in a new era, for example, in terms of developing technologies and otherwise securing all fundamental rights issues and others, there will certainly be enough challenges, certainly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u36	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion. The conversation is about to begin. — Minister Mykkänen, please present the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u37	Mr President! This bill is therefore about improving the operating conditions of the Border Guard so that it can prepare itself for new types of threat and act quickly and effectively in order to meet the situation. In the case of the Border Guard, these are in particular situations where there is a systematic use of force, harassment or infiltration without using military symbols. Our operating environment has changed in that we should also, by means of legislation, be prepared for hybrid threats of this kind, which are typically systematic ways of bringing pressure, damage, uncertainty or instability to society. The proposal would therefore change the powers of the Border Guard to act under normal conditions, which would allow a rapid reaction in the event of disturbances, and it is important that the Authority can react immediately with its existing powers of action. In this way, it is possible to stop or limit a threatening situation at an early stage before the disturbance can expand. The Border Guard is already a key player in maintaining Finland’s internal security, especially external security. The Border Guard prepares for hybrid threats in its border security missions, regional surveillance missions, but also in maritime rescue missions and protecting its own key functions within Finland. I would like to present five specific points which are essentially the subject of amendments to the draft law. Firstly, the purpose of the proposal is to supplement the powers of the border guard and to maintain public order and security at border crossing points, at border guard premises and in areas under border guard control. Border guards would be responsible for measures when the police were prevented from doing so, with the same powers as the police would have. Secondly, the possibilities for the Border Guard to provide assistance and, on the other hand, to obtain official assistance would be reviewed. In the fight against terrorism, the Border Guard could also provide police with military assistance not only in the maritime area but also at border crossing points and near the border. In addition, the Defence Forces could provide greater assistance to the Border Guard. These changes would improve the ability of safety authorities to cooperate rapidly to manage disturbances. Thirdly, it is proposed that the border guard should be given the right to intervene in the flow of unmanned aircraft and drones by means of force or technical measures. This is aimed at ensuring border security, sea rescue or other very important activities of the Border Guard, for example. The proposal also suggests that women engaged in armed and voluntary military service could be used more effectively to support the activities of the Border Guard in exceptional circumstances. In certain circumstances, they could be temporarily given the right to take identity marks, to control traffic, to stop vehicles or to carry out safety checks, for example. It would not be a dangerous task, the military would be trained in these tasks, and they would always be under the guidance of the chief staff. Finally, the current obligations of carriers, in particular shipowners and shipowners, in the area of external border traffic, such as the verification of travel documents and the provision of passenger lists, would also be extended to internal border traffic where border controls have been decided on a temporary basis at internal borders. This is aimed at effective entry management in exceptional circumstances. In addition, the proposal contains a number of other individual amendments to the powers of the Border Guard. These changes do not entail any significant additional expenditure on central government finances. The new powers will require additional training for border guards and students of border guards. The training can be carried out in the workplace and in the studies of the border guard’s basic course. Mr President! The legislative changes would therefore improve the resilience of the Border Guard to crisis and its ability to manage large-scale incidents with sufficient speed and efficiency, as well as the possibilities for cooperation between security authorities. These changes would have a positive impact on state security in a context that is constantly changing and difficult to predict. The amendments are proposed to enter into force as soon as possible in 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u38	Thank you. — Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u39	Mr President! The purpose of the Government's proposal is to develop the competences of the Border Guard and the Border Guard's normal conditions so that the Border Guard can prepare quickly and effectively to respond to threats in Finland's security environment, both independently and in cooperation with other competent authorities. I very much welcome the proposal in this regard. The purpose of the proposal is, in particular, to supplement the powers of the Border Guard to maintain public order and security at border crossing points, at border guard premises and in areas under border guard control where the police are prevented from doing so. Many times on the border, the Border Guard patrol is the first patrol to arrive. In addition, the powers of the Border Guard at the request of the police or in support of the police would be supplemented. This activity, and in particular joint patrolling, has been a daily activity in certain areas of Finland. I therefore very much welcome the fact that the powers of the border man in this respect are being supplemented. Under current legislation, the police have had the right to receive military assistance from the Border Guard only in maritime areas in order to combat terrorism. We would now be given the right to provide some of the official assistance in the land as well. It's a good change, too. In the future, the Border Guard will also be better equipped to respond to rapidly evolving threats and to provide military assistance to the police in the fight against terrorism. The legislation enhances Finland’s military capability. This should be clear by now, but until now it has not been. A border guard would also be entitled to intervene in the course of an unmanned aircraft and drone in the future, if necessary to maintain border security, to carry out a security or rescue mission, or to protect the very important activities of the Border Guard. This is an important change because different unmanned aircraft are constantly increasing in the use of both civilians and professionals. The core functions of the Border Guard must be better secured. In particular, border guards must be increased at the eastern border, at Helsinki Airport and at ports. The outdated land border and maritime surveillance systems must be renewed and modernised in the future. In recent years, the Border Guard has been on a severe austerity course at a time when tasks have increased and EU obligations have increased at borders. This development must be translated into a healthier direction. We have to understand that the Border Guard is the cornerstone of public security as a police officer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u40	Värderade fru talman! Denna proposition kommer att utveckla Gränsbevakningsväsendets befogenheter under normala förhållanden så att man snabbt och effektivt kan öta de hot som kan uppstå i Finlands säkerhetspolitiska omgivning. Lagförslagets utformning är mycket viktig. Det handlar inte bara om hur det organiseras i practiceken, utan också om printer. Lagförslaget berör också till många delar Åland, men inte samtliga effectsom lagstiftningsbehörigheten om allmän ordning och säkerhet med vivi undantag är landskapets behörighet enligt självstyrelselagens 18 § 6 punks. I propositionen föreslås det att Gränsbevakningsväsendets befogenheter gällande upprätthållande av allmän ordning och säkerhet samt polisuppdrag utvidgas. De föreslagna befogenheterna gäller dock inte i landskapet. Gränsbevakningsväsendets uppgifter i landskapet Åland bestems enligt gränsbevakningslagen, självstyrelselagen för Åland samt överenskommerordningen om Gränsbevakningsväsendets uppgifter i landskapet Åland. Gränskontroll och övrig lagstiftning som gäller Gränsbevakningsväsendet hör dock med stöd av 27 § 34 punkten i självstyrelselage till rikets behärighet. Förslagen i denna proposition gällande övervakning, ingripande i obemannade luftfartygs eller modellflygplans färd, temporärt avbrytande eller temporär begränsning av sjötrafik, ratten att använda fastigheter, begränsningar i rätten att röra sig på fastigheter samt transportörers skyldigheter vid trafik över de inre gränserna hehför sig till gränskont-roll och tryggande av Gränsbevakningsväsendet verksamhet, och således tillas de också på Åland. Article 27 of Enligt 34 punkten i självstyrelselage har riket lagstiftningsbehörighet i fråga om ordningsmaktens verksamhet för tryggande av statens säkerhet. Enligt detaljmotiveringen omfattar begrepet bland you give lagstiftningen om bekämpning av terrorismm. De bestemmelser om handräckning mellan riksmyndigheter vid terrorismbekämpning som föreslås i denna proposition gäller således med beaktande av de nedan nämnda överenskommelserna aven dessa myndigheters verksamhet i landskapet. Det är dock av fundamental betydelse att de internationella överenskommelserna gällande Ålands demilitarisering och neutralising noggrant specteras. Lagförslaget innebär nämligen öjlighet till handräckning från Försvarsmakten, Vilket har alldelesärskild betydelse för de internationella avtalen gällande Ålands demilitarisering. Enligt artikel 4 a i 1921 års convention får Finland när utomordentliga omständigheter det kräver, dit införa och där temporärt hålla utöver reguljär polispersonal sådana väpnade styrkor som är strängt nödvändiga för ordningens upprätthållande. Sådan handräckning vid bekämpning av terrorism som föreslås i denna proposition kan aven inbegripa användning av militara maktmedel. Bekämpning av terrorism kan betraktas som en ovan avsed exceptionell location, men bestemmelsernas tillamplighet på Åland ska dock alltid bedömas från fall till fall. Beslut om sådan handräckning som omfattar milittar maktmedel fattas eller fastställs i sista hand vid statsrådets allmänna samanträde, där uttryckligen verksamhetens berattigande med tanke på övereskommelserna om demilitarisering och neutralising samt frågans andra utrikespolitiska dimensioner naturligtvis måste beaktas. Hanging av terrorism är i första hand en polisiär uppgift. I händelse av ett mistänkt terroristbrott på Åland bör frågan således i första hand skötas av polisen, och det kan inte bli fråga om handräckning från Försvarsmakten så länge det inte är fråga om åtgärder som är strängt nödvändiga för ordningens upprätthållande. Detta kriterium kanses vara uppfylllt då det är fråga om en överhängande risk för Människors liv eller llsa eller då stora milö- eller egendomsskador står på spel. Undantagen i de internationale conventiononerna ska alltid tollkas strikt. Bekämpning av terrorism kan betraktas som en ovan avsed exceptionell location, men bestemmelsernas tillamplighet på Åland ska alltid bedömas från fall till fall. Värderade fru talman! Lagförslaget har tags remiscyttradena gällande Åland i beaktande, vilket är mycket viktigt och något jag noterar att man har gjort i förhållande till det första utkastet av lagförslaget, som inehöll problem. De problemmen är nösta i förslaget. Det är jag nöjd över att man har gjort effectsom det gör att propositionen blev en balanserad hehet också gällande de speciella dimensioner som berör Åland. Framöver är det ändå viktigt att utskotten som kommer att behandla frågan också noterar och bevakar detta samt hör Ålands position, via Ålands landskapsregering, i utskottsbehandlingen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u41	Madam President! Mr Minister, my warmest congratulations on the responsible task that you are now working on for this republic and for this Parliament. As a member of the Administrative Committee itself, I welcome the work on this type of legislative package, which, together with the various competent authorities in the ministries, also involves the joint improvement and updating of the safety blanket. In this context, I would also like to thank the previous ministers for their responsible role and for their good understanding with Parliament. But there are a few questions. The second part of the question relates to the definition of the concept of ‘hybrid’, which is also written in In these rapidly changing situations, so to speak, hybrid threats and difficult-to-identifiable threats, we start with the idea that, if anything happens, those powers will be flexibly transferred from the Internal Security Authority — police, Customs, Border Guard — For the Defence Forces or vice versa, how, Minister, do you not see: is it not a little problematic that, if these hybrid situations are not described more precisely, then there will still be a situation in which the competent authorities are squeezing responsibility and responsibility to each other or, on the contrary, take over operations which are not, however, within their own jurisdiction? Should this legislation describe in more detail the types of situations in which people who work are transferred? And another question. It would also be interesting to hear your views on the issue of dual citizenship in this first debate. In what way do you see the issue of dual citizenship, which is part of this bill, but perhaps in a broader perspective than the draft law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u42	Madam President! Cooperation is a force in Finland, especially cooperation between authorities. We have had few authorities working together — PTR cooperation, police, Customs, Border Guard, Defence Forces and as a soft authority the rescue service — and this has come to be admired all the way to the outside world and wondered how this is possible. And it is possible in Finland. This legislation is a good continuum for it. No matter how many border guards we have, police officers, customs officers, we need this legislation, because it must be strictly regulated in the day-to-day activities, which are the rights of the individual border guard. The law must also be clear: if something suddenly starts to happen at a border crossing point and the police are not there, but there is a border guard there, how can they act? The work of a border guard in such a situation today cannot be based on everyman's rights, under any circumstances. Then there is the fact that, of course, this package does not include the part of Customs, and that is the subject of its own debate, how Customs, as an important internal security actor, will also be more closely involved in this. After all, the legislation of the Border Guard regarding the investigation has already been developed, and this is a good continuation for that too. Of course, there is also the reserve for a bad day which today must be — not likely, but possible — for certain hybrid threats. It is now defined how even military power can be used, and management relations are fully clarified. Unfortunately, it's the present. Legislation must be ahead of its time, not beyond its time, and this will then be in the safe there and hopefully stay there, but if it needs to be taken there, then we will have effective legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u43	Madam President! When we talk about hybrid situations and hybrid threats, we must always be prepared to wait for the unexpected, and that is why it is important that legislation is flexible insofar as it is possible to make it flexible and that we give border guards, for example, the right to react to changing situations in such a way that as few as possible — or no one — are put at risk. As a matter of priority, the activities of the Border Guard will of course continue to take place in border regions, border points, border crossing points, border crossing points, the border guard's own premises, but it is important that this can be made more flexible if necessary. This is also linked to the fact that we are currently working on a number of projects in which the European Union is seeking to cooperate on border management in various unexpected external border situations at the borders and at the external borders of the European Union. It is also important that Finnish legislation is up-to-date. I would draw attention to the fact that, now that the drones have been raised as an example in this proposal, we should also think about the possibility of other technological innovations that will give us a similar situation in the future. So I hope that at the Ministry of the Interior you will also be vigilant under the new Minister, and I believe that you will be. In general, when we talk about the overall safety of Finland, I cannot help overemphasizing the importance of dismantling unnecessary silos. If this small country wants to handle its affairs from a safety point of view as highly as possible, then we will not be able to afford the kind of silos that can arise if the various officials do not talk to each other. That is why this legislation seems welcome, and I look forward to hearing it in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u44	Madam President! The bill, which complements the government border guard and foreign law, is very good and worthy of support. Today's world has changed so fast that our legislation is not going to stay up to date. For example, when you look at the work of border guards at border crossing points today, for example in ports or at border crossing points now on the eastern border, situations change very quickly and border guards need to have their powers in order. We all know in this house that all public activity must be based on the law and the law must be strictly observed. In other words, the border guard cannot do anything if there is no mandate, but with this legislation we will put these powers in order and, above all, we will find a situation where cooperation between the police and the border guards is straightforward and, if necessary, the border guards will be able to get help from the police quickly or vice versa. Of course, this works at border crossings, but it also plays a major role in rural municipalities, where in many cases the police are not close. That local police patrol could be in my municipality of Ilomants, and when there's a situation going on, it could be a hundred kilometers away. And the border guards are there: right in the center of the church village there is the North Karelia Border Guard, and there are numerous border guards. Of course, not everyone is present at the same time, but I am sure that the border guards on duty will help the police in that situation, because when the situation is moving quickly, it will require rapid action. That is why this bill is very good and worthy of support. I particularly welcome the fact that, in this draft law, legislation is finally being put in place to combat these drones, because they are spreading at such a wild rate. The situation is soon to be that these flying little planes are all around and no legislation is going to be available for them. These certainly pose a security threat in some situations, and the authorities must have the means to deal with these situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u45	Madam President! At the time when I was a member of the Government Party before this, there was a lot of debate about the need to prepare for exceptional circumstances and the need for good practices in these exceptional circumstances, we need adequate legislation. This also touches on the situation of temporary re-establishment of border control. After all, in 2015 the situation was such that border control should have been temporarily restored. It was then discovered that such a legislative framework would certainly be needed, and this is probably just one part of it. Let us hope that more will be done about this particular state of emergency and its legislation. This in itself was good in this regard, although I now admit little that I still regret in retrospect that the ministers of that time were unable to act in that situation at the time of 2015. There is also control in maritime areas and the provision of official assistance, for example, in a terrorist situation. This is a good thing that controls and areas of activity are also clarified and developed. But this reminds me that — I am now making use of the presence of the Minister for the Interior — I have been thinking with a few others about the fact that when you move abroad and there are security checks in between, if you go to a passenger ship in Finland, when you go to a Swedish ship or a Tallinn ship, you see that the security checks are rather weak, the security framework is still very inadequate there. That is why I would suggest that this should go to the government to investigate the need, unfortunately, for such a world age, for proper security controls, and that those passenger ferries should also be secured so that they do not simply commit terrorist attacks or take possession of those ferries in such a way as to carry weapons there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u46	Mr President! The world is changing, and legislation must, of course, follow the change in the world. Today, our perception of threats is very different from what it was 10 years ago, and this of course applies widely to all European countries. In this respect, these two draft legislative amendments are justified. Indeed, it must be seen that we are able to act under different threats in such a way that the responsibilities between the authorities are indisputable and that we know who is doing and under whose direction. However, it is justified that the committee should go through this proposal carefully, not least because it has proved that new information has become available on how best to prepare and how to do so in such a way that the fundamental rights of citizens are guaranteed under all circumstances. Then we have to be careful of excesses, and I will now raise two of these issues in this connection: The first concerns the decision taken last year in this Parliament, in which the European Union Border Guard was granted operating rights in Finland beyond the position of the Finnish Government. I still regard this decision as an inconceivable line — that bypassing Finland’s sovereignty, armed persons can be sent to Finland to carry out border controls. That line was never properly justified here, but was taken through by an unexistent debate. I regret what has happened and I do not understand how such a situation could be in anyone's interest that, contrary to the position of the country's government, the European Union sends armed persons to carry out border controls, for example. I believe that this should always take place in connection with the official policy and requests of the government of the country. The second point concerns this debate on dual citizenship, to which Mr Kari referred earlier. This is what the Minister of Defence is Niinistö took a speech at the opening of the national defence course, in a very authoritative place, in which he labeled Finland's dual citizens as a 'fifth column'. That was an incomprehensible speech. We have 100,000 Finns who have the nationality of another country, and they have acted in good faith as the Finnish State has been urging for years: either to retain their own previous citizenship and to take a Finnish passport or vice versa, to preserve the Finnish passport and take its new passport from the country of posting. And now suddenly it is said from the ranks of the government of the country that such persons represent the fifth column, that is, a threat to Finland's security. I consider this speech to be very ill thought out and I am also surprised that it has been received by silence in the ranks of the government. We even have people inside the government who are dual citizens. Their patriotism is also called into question by such a speech. I understand how to prepare for risks, it is right, but there is a special responsibility that the members of the Government do not arbitrarily label entire sections of the population as unpatriotic, risks to Finnish security. This question remains on the board of the government as to what is to be done on this issue of dual nationality. It is known that the government will continue to consider restrictions that would provide for certain posts to be unable to apply for them if you have the nationality of another country. Now that there is a new Minister for the Interior, I think it is justified that he should shed light on his point of view for this debate, not least because the Ministry of the Interior is of course one of the areas covered by this type of security debate, and I assume that the Ministry of the Interior also employs people who currently have dual citizenship in accordance with Finnish laws, to which the Finnish Government has actively urged people to apply. There is a need for an open debate on this matter and not for the government to go to its own castle and make a decision and then say to Parliament that all these things must be followed, and that is the end of the debate. Before a decision is taken, different aspects should be raised. We have already made legislative changes in this regard, which have tightened the safety assessment, and they have been well-founded projects, but I remain to ask whether this stigmatisation of large sections of the population is justified. Is that right in the rule of law, and is that right in terms of our security? And I call on the ministers of the government to take a stand on this issue so that Parliament can take a position on this issue and thus influence the proposals that the government is bringing to Parliament on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u47	Madam President! It is easy to agree with the heavy speech by Mr Heinäluoma, including as a member of the Administrative Committee. As a member of the Committee on Defence, I have been allowed to act since 2011, i.e. during the two parliaments in these same committees, and, Minister, you are the fourth Minister of the Interior here as a continuation of a valuable chain of internal ministers. This issue of dual citizenship is not new to us. Of course, as part of the situation in Ukraine in 2014 it emerged at the end of the last term in the Administrative Committee and in the Defence Committee, and even at the beginning of this government, a parliamentary effort was being made to look for the legislative reform needs associated with this issue of dual citizenship. However, the Minister of Defence’s statements on the ‘fifth column’ are statements to which a reply from the government is They cannot be just personal opinions cast by an individual minister at a valuable event in their own right, but they are forced to emerge at the stages of the reform of the various legislation, which is the official position of the government on this issue of dual citizenship. We all have familiar dual citizens, both within the Government and elsewhere, who have no categorical justification for their suspicion of patriotism; on the contrary, it is reprehensible. I believe that the Minister will respond to this. Then I would like to ask about the powers of the Border Guard in connection with this bill for police duties. Here too — I do not remember who the honourable Member mentioned, I think Mr Hoskonen was — heard that it is effective, for example in border areas, to use the resources of the Border Guard to carry out police duties. Last year, however, 150 police officers were transferred to the Alcohol Act to be practically drunk drivers, to put it that way. Surely the idea behind this is not that the Border Guard should be given such direct powers of force and coercion to protect the people of the border area? There is still a need for trained police officers at the border who are specialised in this police field, and then the Border Guard will support where there is support, but not categorically, by entrusting the police with tasks to the border.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u48	Mr President! I am also talking about this dual nationality issue because I have received a lot of contacts from people who are concerned about whether they are welcome in Finland or are welcome to stay in Finland if they want to retain their own previous citizenship — people who are in different positions at the moment and feel that their activities and their acceptability have been called into question. This should not be treated indifferently or with silence, because we do not want to have the idea that in an internationalising world and in Finland we are creating preconceptions for such people, that they are especially under the loop, or that their patriotism and acceptability are being called into question. This applies not only to those who are directly dual citizens, but also, of course, to their family members and relatives. In other words, this matter directly affects hundreds of thousands, and when such a heavy charge has been made that they are this kind of ‘fifth column’, which is threatened to beimposed even during peacetime, then there is no need to pass. I regret that the Minister of Defence is not present in this connection and has not had the opportunity in Parliament to ask him directly about this matter. When that kind of opportunity comes along, I'm going to continue the conversation. But this applies not only to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence, but also to the activities of the Government as a whole and to the Government's concept of citizens' rights and equal treatment in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u49	Let us take Mr Hoskonen again, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u50	Madam President! Mr Kari's speech is limited to the fact that, in the circumstances of rural communities, we are obliged to recognise the fact that, over the last ten years, police activity has concentrated on large centres. This is a cold fact. Whether it is the fault of the previous government or the previous government or the government that sits there, this has just happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u53	Then Minister Mykkänen, and then he goes on. — Minister Mykkänen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u54	Mr President! Thank you for a good, substantive debate. Mr Kulmala referred at this early stage to the resources of the border, the austerity pressures, the need to renew control equipment. These are all true, and in the midst of these pressures, of course, action is being taken. Fortunately, some resources last year were increased by the government, and this year we will certainly look again. Representative Löfström addressed the special issues of Åland. It is clear that the Border Guard clearly includes border control tasks and maritime rescue as well as official assistance requested by the police for the Åland Islands as well, and in relation to these tasks as well as the tasks related to the Aliens Act, this legislative package also applies to Åland, but the public policy and safety components do not apply — and then, in part, to the military. Mr Kari asked whether the concept of hybrid threat was too open to interpretation. On the one hand, as Mrs Parviainen rightly pointed out, in order to tackle hybrid threats in a changing environment, we must also be able to be flexible among the authorities and imagine situations that are not likely at the moment. Fortunately, in Finland, the strength in security is precisely the cooperation and trust of the authorities in this society, and it is also worth taking advantage of that strength. As Mrs Parviainen pointed out, we also have preparations for the use of new technologies, other than drones. This strengthening of the powers of the border, of course, as Mr Hoskonen has pointed out here, makes it possible to improve the security of people in the border counties in particular. This is positive compared to the current situation. However, as a result of this amendment of the law, it is not intended to reduce the visibility of the police in these municipalities as such. Then, with regard to the references made by some of the representatives to the possibility of applying for dual citizenship posts, it does not of course have anything to do with this law, but I myself have said publicly, for example, in last Saturday in Helsingin Sanomat, that I myself cannot sign the references to the fifth column. We have a legal right to dual citizenship and people are, of course, equal Finns then. When we consider, for example, the eligibility of key posts in the Border Guard, it is clear that, unfortunately, we also have an increased risk of pressure on dual citizenship from the outside world, and that is what we need to find a way to address in terms of the security of these officials. On the other hand, I believe that we must try to find a way which is as far as possible a violation of equality before the law, regardless of nationality. This work will now be done and hopefully a balanced solution will be found. Although the solution concerns a small number, it is a matter of principle and of careful consideration, as representatives of Heinäluoma and Kari have also said.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u55	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u56	Madam President! I just wanted to remind you, by the example of alcohol law, that any action we take in the field of internal security affects the internal security field, resources, whether those resources are people, policemen and women, money or police cars, or Ilomants Police Department patrol, and so on. Now, with the Alcohol Act, we moved 150 policemen to transport clients between 3:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Its decision was made by a majority in Parliament and it is lived with reality. Tomorrow morning we will have the Minister of Defence before the Committee on Defence, and when I guess this debate will be followed by the media too, I think that tomorrow we will come back to the fifth column in one way or another in committee and ask questions. To the Minister's question: I was very pleased that the section of the people cannot just be categorically condemned as unpatriotic by such expressions. That is what this expression meant in practice. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister in relation to this actual draft law, when we are talking about aircraft control and the like: will this bill be followed by an additional extension or something like that in the draft budget for internal security? Different types of machinery and equipment are also needed to bring these helicopters into the country — and similar legislative needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u57	Mr President! I want to thank you, Minister. A silent, factual answer and also the question of this dual nationality and then the related public speeches. It was a pleasure to hear that the new minister thinks very clearly in this regard, starting with the equal treatment of citizens. I would like the government to have its own thinking clarified as quickly as possible, so that this unclear phase, which is now clearly undermining people, is as short as possible. But thank you for this line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u58	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u59	Madam President! From unmanned aircraft to fully occupied ships to sea. We are dealing here with the system of sanctions for fisheries policy and the law of control. The fact is that such a law would never be made if we were not members of the EU, but when there the Parliamentary Council and the Commission change the fishing lines, we, as Finland, are forced to give in to it, but we try to make changes so that they will result in as little bureaucracy as possible and in the most sensible reforms possible. Much has been said about the fishing quotas for salmon, the individual quotas for operators, and the fact is that they have not been properly controlled when it is not known where the vessel is coming to at any time and the controls are very random. That is why there has been a desire to intervene from the end of the EU. We are now implementing this system in Finland by means of a notification procedure of this kind, which will take place no later than half an hour before entering the port, which will be cleverly implemented in the future in such a way that it can be handled with applications and thus with minimal bureaucracy. On the other hand, such a reform makes perfect sense in the sense that, in fact, the catch that has disappeared a little in the dark will be better identified. We therefore want the same type of control to take place in other countries in the Baltic Sea. After all, we have a lot of problems with fisheries control in Poland, for example. In other contexts, the committee has even envisaged that this type of activity should be transferred to that aspect of leisure fishing. I would add that this does not apply to net fishing, but to fishing for traps and longliners. We can go to the details later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u60	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the system of sanctions and control of the Common Fisheries Policy. Once again, the presentation seems quite extraordinary. The proposal would lead to certain other amendments to the law, including the introduction of a prior notification obligation for the introduction of catches in salmon fisheries and the obligation for the Authority to notify promptly the operator suspected of breaching the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy. This sounds a little strange. Why is such an obligation at all when EU law does not oblige it? There is already a very detailed regulatory framework for commercial fisheries: individual quotas for operators under catch labelling, traceability provisions and a sanction system based on the EU control law. At the same time, recreational fishermen are not subject to any obligation to report catches. I anticipated that this 30-minute abbreviated advance notification would not be a good option, or at least it would not work, just as mobile telephone systems do not always work under maritime conditions. In many cases, the whole fishing trip may be less than half an hour, when the fisherman will have to report landings already when leaving the quay without even knowing if he can catch fish. It would be good to use some common sense in this respect. The impact of Article 20a of that Law on fisheries control is also very questionable. At the same time, if several fishermen come along the coast to the countries, how will that control work, or is it only point control and very random? In an ideal situation, the prior notification procedure would facilitate fisheries control and increase both the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of control and allow rapid integration of inspections into other field surveillance work. Unfortunately, however, I do not believe that this would happen. In my opinion, the obligation for the 48-hour Ely Centre to be notified under the current legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u61	Mr President! This is a matter for the Confederation of Fisheries, and I am sure that this criticism is partly justified. I am sure that we will look into this in more detail in committee. But, of course, I would like to point out that these arrival times are usually planned and, from the point of view of trade, it is important that fishermen know when to return to the port. Most of the notifications are expected to be made in advance when we go out to sea. In the future, too, these controls will be random, but perhaps this can be organised a little more rationally now. And, in principle, from now on, there should be no such fish on our market, the origin of which is unknown. Similarly, fatty fin cutting can now be verified quite well in the future. And when the Vice-President raised the issue of leisure fishing to fram, we can, of course, again pay some attention to this issue. The Duubios are real in themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u62	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u63	Mr President! This bill deals with three-dimensional properties. Is such a matter of real estate formation really relevant in Parliament? If we put the matter in the measuring grade, we have property worth some 530 billion, so it is a very large matter when it comes to building construction. Well, then, what is this three-dimensional building formation? The easiest thing to think about is, for example, the Kamppi shopping centre: When each floor could form its own property, then the legal consequences, burdens and obligations follow that, just like normal properties, you have to have access to it and it can be a burden on the other. When considering three-dimensional properties, these things are easier to consider when they are already involved in building formation. And, in fact, there is a future in that way that we do not have to go to the Star Wars section when you can read the transport policy reports: there is a very serious consideration of the level of traffic going from the ground to the future. We must be prepared to see, for example, this type of action in the future. In Sweden and Norway, three-dimensional properties are already commonplace and have been taken into account in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u64	Mr President! The aim of this Government proposal is to simplify and make the implementation of large and multi-level construction projects in the area of the plan of operations more flexible by allowing for the distribution of buildings at heights as well. This proposal refers to a 3D property, which is a three-dimensionally defined closed space that can be limited to a traditional property. This allows for the formation of a three-dimensional property in the sub- and sub-surface area of the station plan. 3D property would be independent and permanent property. Its benefits are recognised, among other things, that the implementation of large-scale and multi-level construction projects will be simplified and made more flexible by the reform. It is estimated that this will contribute to the further construction of buildings below and above existing buildings. In the future, it would be easier to fasten the space inside the building and pledge the loan as collateral. In addition, public registers would show more clearly who owns which premises. In particular, I believe that this is an important point at this time when estates own holdings which are difficult to ascertain with regard to ownership. This proposal has not been considered to have direct effects on the majority of property owners. According to the proposal, it would not be possible to form real estate from individual dwellings, so the impact on households would not arise. In this proposal it has been estimated that 3D properties would not be set up in a large number, as the potential benefits are greatest in the city centre and in hybrid construction and in some underground sites. This is an interesting presentation in all respects, and there is also a need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u65	Mr President! When I read this bill, I wondered in my mind what the purpose of this is, but I do understand that these legal aspects of buildings are being brought to today’s level. Of course, this modern 3D technology, among other things, makes it possible to divide the building into different parts, and it will certainly be possible to form real estate in accordance with this law. That's good. I am afraid, however, that the consequences will be that, when these buildings are formed, the prices of buildings will go up in this way. It is probably one way to increase the value of real estate and, at its worst, the bubble of real estate that has been built in Europe and especially in the United States in recent years. Although interest rates are low and, in principle, construction should be cheap, everything crawls into prices. That low interest rate, that benefit, goes straight to the prices. On the other hand, Mr President, it is precisely in the construction sector — this is not, of course, the fault or merit of the construction companies or their industry, that such a bill has been brought to Parliament, that is the government's proposal, of course — what we should pay attention to in this country is the quality of construction. After all, it is incomprehensible that new homes are being built in this country; even in this city there are such new apartments where the water comes in, not from the shower hose when you shower in the morning, but from the roof directly through the rain coming in. This is the huge problem facing our society. The second is, of course, these moldy buildings. We build bottles like that, then we don't get air conditioning fixed, nothing, and then, on the other hand, in rural areas, if someone wants to build a log house for themselves, then a million possible difficulties are being raised, which should not be done. That is why I hope, Mr President, that we in Finland will gradually find some sort of common sense in these matters of construction. The fact that the new law and three-dimensional real estate will come will probably not revolutionize the world, but it would revolutionise Finnish construction if attention were gradually drawn to quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u66	Mr President! In modern centers, buildings are diversifying. There may be apartments, offices, parking facilities, warehouses, public sauna facilities in the same building. Changing the articles of association of these houses later, as conditions change and burdens for housing companies change, modernisation of the articles of association has become difficult in practice. Very typical is the fact that flats on the street pay company charges one and a half times in relation to others, because they are often shops. The housing company will be able to prevent a change in the proportion of these company charges quite easily, leaving situations that are not advantageous to anyone. I think that this is a welcome change and, above all, in the growth centres where different facilities are built on the same plot, this will enable every entity within the house to be treated as a separate entity and will make the land and construction sector more rational to use than the current legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u67	Mr President! Mr Lehti at the end of his speech already said in practice what was to be said. If I have understood correctly, this legislation on three-dimensional real estate is intended to clarify real estate registers, manage them, and facilitate the use of complex real estate, for example, as collateral for debts, in a simpler way than the current division book model. This is certainly not going to apply to a large number of buildings, mainly those in the centre of the largest cities, but the social development of the legislation and the diversification of buildings have brought about the need for change and, fortunately, it has now been brought to the table here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u68	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u69	Mr President! This, too, is a reasonably technical matter. It introduces updates and technical changes to legislative references on the basis of EU legislation. But whenever these changes are made, it is worth cutting red tape in Finland whenever it can be done, and in this case too. Now that these market arrangements are being made, for example, when the limit values for the carcase are changed, then of course Finland should take advantage of this advantage, and so many small slaughterhouses will benefit. In fact, in the future of rural areas an article on the fact that the carcase inspection was becoming easier and an individual operator felt that there was not enough work done by the MPs, among other things in this regard a few weeks ago. I thought it was rather sad when I too had sacrificed and taken it all the way to the EU for many working days, and here too this is where it comes from. In practice, these classification requirements have previously been applied to slaughterhouses slaughtering at least 75 cattle aged eight months a week, and now the limit rises to 150 animals a week. This is quite significant. The second point concerns slaughter in pigmeat production: there the limit rises from 200 to 500. I will then take the floor separately on the issue of the heavy goods sector, namely the fruit and vegetable sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u70	Mr President! This amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Agricultural Markets is a good example of the complexity of the EU's common agricultural policy and its administration. This is essentially a purely technical change which will clarify the functioning of the authorities and the division of labour between them. On the other hand, the lack of precision and complexity of EU regulation reflects the fact that this technical bill is a 42-page bureaucratic package. In addition to the size of the 42 pages, bureaucracy is illustrated by the fact that operators and authorities in the sector find that this will have little or no financial impact on the needs of the authorities. In other words, we will make 40 pages of changes which will clarify matters administratively but which will have no greater impact. Against this example, I certainly do not see the objective of simplifying agricultural policy and administration in the preparation of the coming programming period and increasing national flexibility in the implementation of matters, because, as these good and appropriate clarifications show in themselves, there is a need for national flexibility, bureaucracy must be reduced and, in order to achieve the desired objective, there must be practical and common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u71	Mr President! Indeed, this legislation is these proposals for amendments to the European Union's bureaucracy, which amend the law on the organisation of the market in agricultural products. The idea comes to mind that bureaucracy seems to be always trying to bring itself up to date, and there is probably also the point that the people who run that bureaucracy are at least fully employed — well, that is also the objective. But, alongside all this bureaucracy, there is one thing that goes unnoticed in my soul, and it is precisely that, at the same time as these various maneuvers are being changed into legislation, so that the papers go right and the bureaucracy goes right, food containing substances that are harmful to the health of the world is coming on the market. There is MRSA; now we have found in Europe the new superbacteria which then does not believe any antibiotics, it is already found in meat products in Europe across the line. Similarly, salmonella spreads like wildfire. Antibiotics are allowed to be used uncontrollably, it seems that every person can get them into the body from any food. There is still no clear labelling on food packaging in Europe, which would suggest that this, for example meat, does not contain any traces of medicines, traces of antibiotics or anything else. It is extremely difficult to get such a label, but let us not lose sight of the need to change a few articles of red tape — yes, the whole European Union’s machinery is sharp that this is the job to be done. I wonder if it's time for a little bit of reason to come to the head. How many hundred thousand people must die from an epidemic before we begin to understand where the real problem lies? In this regard, we Finns must keep our minds clear and our minds sharp so that we keep these clean foods clean in this country and then try to market them in Europe. What I know is that clean food will certainly be a market hit in the years to come, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u72	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen's speeches were music to the ears, and Mr Viljanen raised this issue of bureaucracy very well, but I thought that, with a view to the future, I would like to speak on this producer organisation, which is also affected by this market organisation law. This is therefore the implementation and rationalisation of old EU legislation. For example, it lays down rules on the use of aid to producer organisations in the fruit and vegetables sector and the way in which they operate. But I'd like to talk about the future. In other words, the fair functioning of the food market has been discussed throughout Europe and measures will be considered for the next period as well, and I would like Finland to play an active role, as has already been pointed out to us in the fact that we are considering entirely new ways of working for such producer organisations, for example. Since trade is highly concentrated and it does not seem fair at the moment that this added value, which is generated in the chain, should be eroded to the primary producer, it would be worth considering greater scope for action, starting with price formation and this type of negotiation. Even now, it is possible to discuss how many products are placed on the market, and the various preservations and marketing improvements, the design of production, these issues, but also price discussions could be quite relevant in the future. We think it's only natural for ay movements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u73	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u74	Mr President! It's three-M's day today. Many legislative proposals have come from there and in this case, too, a very good one. In other words, the support of a young farmer will be rationalised in such a way that in its five-year period, it will be possible for the young farmer to receive both EU and national aid from the day on which it is applied for. In other words, if it has not been applied for in the year when the activity has been started, it will not be lost in those years, but the five-year period will start from that date, and it will also be possible to apply for it a little late.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u75	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the European Union's direct aid law for agriculture with regard to support for young farmers. Aid for young farmers may continue to be granted for a maximum of five years, but the maximum period for granting aid for five years would no longer reduce the number of years between the start of the holding or the submission of an application for aid for the first young farmer following the start of the holding or the start of the holding. I believe that this proposal is very timely and necessary. The amendment improves the position of young farmers in situations where the farmer has not noticed that the young farmer has applied for support in the year of the start of the holding or in the year following the year of the start of the holding. The aid for young farmers will continue to be applied for in the context of the main payment application, so that the change does not entail an additional administrative burden for the farmer. It is estimated that there are some individual cases of such farmers. The forgetfulness is human, and the government is well aware of this in this proposal. It is also good in this proposal that the proposed change does not result in new tasks for the municipalities and that the conditions for granting the aid should be reviewed as part of the basic tasks of the municipalities relating to agricultural subsidies, as is the case with other forms of aid. Changes to information systems and changes to guidelines for authorities and farmers, for example, can also be implemented within existing resources. I therefore consider the proposal to be all right, as good as it may be in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u76	Mr President! Although there is now a completely routine change in this reading, for those affected by the changes in the support for young farmers, this change is really important. The number of these farmers affected each year is unlikely to be very large. The change has no major economic or operational impact on the state, but it is still important. In practice, this change will improve the status of farmers eligible for support from young farmers who have not applied for support from young farmers in the year of start-up but only later. As Mr Kulmala has just said, the reasons why this has happened are humane and certainly vary very widely on a case-by-case basis, but the situation will now improve for all of these. Before applying for the aid, the number of years entitled to the aid was reduced. In the future, the calculation will begin when the beneficiary applies for the aid and not from the date on which he started as a young farmer and was entitled to this aid application. It may sound confusing, but it is a good and simple matter in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u77	Mr President! The proposed reform would improve the position of young farmers, for example, in situations where the farmer has not noticed that the young farmer has applied for aid in the year of start-up or the year following the year of start-up, when the maximum period for receiving the aid in accordance with the previous aid regulation has been reduced from that year or years. The administrative burden will also be reduced as support for young farmers will continue to be applied for in the context of the main payment application. The performance is welcome for young Finnish farmers. Finland must constantly seek to influence the EU level so that the single agricultural policy does not snap on the fingers of Finland. Finland's special characteristics must be taken into account in terms of production management and support schemes and funding. As far as farming conditions are concerned, we are a special student who also needs special attention. In the future, Finland must have sufficient flexibility in applying the aid scheme to the conditions in which we live. Too much bureaucracy must be eliminated. Businesses and farmers must be guaranteed affordable, professional and sufficiently comprehensive advisory services so that they are not lost in the red tape and are able to concentrate on their breadwork. Finland must have a clear vision and the necessary arrogance to stand up for our countryside. We Finns stand up for Finnish farmers, entrepreneurship and the vitality of our countryside. Mr President! Finally, the fraction of the final price of food received by the primary producer is negligible. Tugs and stores take too much time. The truth is that we are about to put a stop to domestic food production if the pace does not change quickly. And again, animal welfare law reform is on its way. The producer's financial problems and the promotion of animal welfare — how do we combine these issues with a good result for both producers and animals? It is a major challenge, but it must be pursued in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u78	Mr President! I am delighted to welcome the government's proposals which are cutting red tape and which, in this case, enable the young farmer to succeed in taking up a demanding task. It is a good thing that the starter farmer is actually given this opportunity to correct his possible error and to arrange for that support, even if the application goes a little late. It's a positive thing. But what I'm a little upset about here is: Now that the European Union is preparing for the next programming period — and this also applies to agriculture — I would like to see a genuine reduction, at last, in this EU bureaucracy, to a level that is genuinely and rapidly being dismantled. After all, the Sipilä government has already done a lot in this career — many, many, many hundred standards have been dismantled, and the work continues — but, for example, on the agricultural side, I take the constant measurement of the areas: once the field has become a field and it remains such a surface area, it is pointless to measure the area every year, when the place of the field remains in it and it does not disappear. Eliminating such absurdities and concentrating essentially on the right work would certainly be the best way to manage the profitability of agriculture. Let's give those people a chance to do the work they know how to do. And another thing that should be taken care of is the classification of pharmaceutical residues and many other harmful substances in the various foods I mentioned in my previous speech, so that the customer, the consumer, has the opportunity and right to see what package is genuinely made in a country and does not contain any toxic substances, because in the long run, when a person gets sick, the game has been lost in the case of that person. Clean food from clean agricultural products is important for Europe, and we Finns have a parade place here because we have the cleanest soil, air and water in the world. That's the chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u79	Mr President! Very good conversation. In the next agricultural reform, we are aiming for this type of thing, namely that each Member State will have a little more opportunities to implement its own support system. Let us hope that this decision will keep the EU to an end, that only some of the blocks – just as before environmental aid and greening aid, this share of the block – will be regulated there through EU standards and then some of the aid will be decided on by each of the people themselves. The will mode is strong that it is done with less bureaucracy, but also the practice hopefully then goes to the finish line. There is also a strong desire for subsidies to be directed more towards value-added and production, and that is what this is all about, because whenever we talk about the opportunities for young farmers to start up, what matters is that this production is profitable and that they are decreasing the amounts of aid that will be available in the future, it would be appropriate to direct them to achieve action. After all, the previous reform went in the direction of increasing opportunities for different types of natural areas, protection zones, collector crops and systems of this type, which are not actually intended to produce crops, and then, when the harvest obligation and age period disappeared, the type of production that is not actually producing anything became more profitable. This is very bad for the whole of Finland's economy, but also for those young farmers who would like to be active, it is a bad thing because aid is capitalised into fields and rent prices and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u80	Mr President! The principle which has now been put forward that the neglected access to aid can be replaced at a later stage is a good principle, and as far as farmers are concerned, I would like this principle to be reflected in other legislation as well. There are a lot of restrictions on investment or others: once someone has started, there will no longer be any different types of aid available afterwards. This principle here is fair and fair, including for those who have previously understood the application, and I would like it to become more widespread in legislation. Punishment for noticing a certain advantage sometimes seems unreasonable for an entrepreneur, when generally there is little room for manoeuvre in economic terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u81	Mr Lehti raised a very important point, and whenever this is possible, I think it would be worth trying it on the TEM side as well as on the three M's project and other activities. I wanted to speak again on the floor of the chairman of the Animal Protection Group, Mr Elomaa. He finely pointed out that when we were able to draw up the animal welfare law so that the farmer would be well, too. This is very important because, for example, in Sweden, the result of very much tightening legislation was that Sweden's self-sufficiency in the production of pigmeat, for example, fell close to 60%. And if our demands on producers were too high, this would happen to us too. After all, the welfare situation of animals is deteriorating globally, because it is bought where the pits are cared for in animal welfare matters, so that somehow we have to go hand in hand. But, of course, the good thing is that we update the level of legislation and move on with the world's top teams.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u82	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u83	Mr President! I'm glad there's a representative of Lehti still here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-13-ps-5.u86	Mr President! Over the past few years and decades, many new ‘customers’ have been included in these claims, who have been confronted by the combined effect of increasedinterest rates and capital on short-term loans. In the United States, these are often credit card owners, and in that situation the ability of the debtor to respond to various measures is generally mentally weak. This sector, including the granting of quick credit, should be included in a more detailed investigation, because people generally do not understand what interest and other payments will then be made. On one occasion, even half of the debt advisors felt that quick loans were a welcome addition to the range of funding. I didn't quite understand it myself. These quick loans are actually a paved road to hell, because their internal interest rate on an annual basis may be over 100%. When interest rates in general have fallen, including interest on late payments, let me say, to a level that is reasonable, might facilitate the position of debtors.
