ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 November 2018. In the debate, Emma Kari, supported by Kari Uotila, has proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, in the debate, Jonah Räsänen, supported by Mika Kari, has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u2	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u4	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of 3. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the UaVM 11/2018 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law. The debate was closed at the session on 20 November 2018. In the debate, Hanna Sarkkinen, supported by Kari Uotila, has proposed that the agreement and the bill be rejected in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u5	I propose that the agreement and the bill be decided together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u7	Mr President! Good Parliament! Yesterday, a child's rights day was celebrated. Almost 30 years ago, Finland committed itself to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which obliges each Member State to act politically in such a way that the best interests of the child are paramount. In many ways we are a model country in child and family policy, or at least a medal base, and many of our excellent childhood practices, decisions and legal articles, from counselling centres to free school meals, have taken time and are still, in practice, certainly the cornerstones of our welfare society, defended by the whole Parliament. In a special way every day, not just on the day of the rights of the child, we must focus our attention on children who, due to their home background, are in a fragile position. Special attention must be paid to safety, growth, learning and peace for children who are clients of child protection — even more specifically to the approximately 20,000 who are located outside their own home. We are now strengthening the child’s right to good treatment, care and education through the amending articles of the Child Welfare Act. We strengthen protection, physical integrity and physical and mental inviolability. The main focus of the proposed provisions is on preventive measures to prevent the emergence of challenging situations and to reduce the use of restrictive measures when they are not necessary. I would like to point out to Parliament that the preparation of this law was widely underway even before a wide-ranging national debate has taken place this autumn on the results of the good work of the Parliamentary Ombudsman, in particular on disciplinary measures relating to school homes and on the autonomy of children and young people. As a result of this debate, we have, of course, decided to further strengthen the points of control, particularly in the paragraphs. This is not, Parliament, the overall reform of child protection. It may be a bigger place to assess the spirit and implementation of that big law that has been in force for ten years during the next government term, as well as whether there are specific development areas in combining services for families with children, child protection and services around the school, and especially in the after-care of child protection. This is where the work of the working group is on the move. Now we will focus on certain points in the motion. The purpose of this proposal is now to strengthen the children who are in foster care and their legal security. This monitoring will be strengthened, as I have mentioned, as a means of preventing abuse and also as a result of their early intervention. At the heart of enhanced supervision is the obligation to consult and involve the child. Mr President! Child welfare must support the realisation of normal education in relation to the child’s age and level of development. The proposal would clarify the borderline between generally accepted conventional education and restrictions on fundamental rights. The proposal would strengthen the right of children placed outside the home to care, to set borders and to respect human dignity. We are in an exceptionally difficult terrain when we know that, as adults, we have a duty to regard raising a child also as setting borders. We are also dealing with children and young people who may also be a danger to themselves, to their loved ones, to other children or to staff. In accordance with this Government's proposal, the customer plan of a child who is a customer of child welfare services should include how children's health care, early childhood education and basic education, i.e. other, normal, ordinary matters, are arranged during foster care. The municipality that has made the decision to invest the child must also prepare the teaching with the investment municipality at the stage when the investment is being prepared. In addition, the client plan for parents should assess how specific support for parents can contribute to the objective of family reunification. It's not always the best option, but it's always a goal. The child’s client plan should always be supplemented by a child’s care and upbringing plan if the child is or is expected to be subject to restrictions on foster care due to his or her life situation. According to the motion, we are now recording in plain sight that the child and his or her guardians must be informed of the means of legal protection. Mr President! This proposal also includes changes for service providers. Replacement service providers with diverse fields should ensure adequate staffing, skills and familiarisation. This can prevent the use of restrictions and ensure that they are used only in the situations required by law, safely and in a manner that respects the dignity of the child. The changes emphasise the recent nature of the restrictions and also the need for the measure used to be proportionate to the health, safety and property risks associated with the behaviour of the child. The child’s opinion and view of the restriction should be clarified unless it is manifestly impossible to make that statement. It is essential, Mr President, that restrictive measures should not be used as a punishment or a disciplinary measure and that their use should not cause harm or harm to the child. The restriction never justifies the subjecting, disciplining, or otherwise insulting or humiliating treatment of a child. A general plan for good treatment should be drawn up at the Child Welfare Institute. The plan for good treatment should include information on measures to support the autonomy of children in the unit, as well as the rules and practices relating to the normal rearing of a place of foster care — so to speak, the house’s manners. The plan should include provisions for the use of restrictions and how they can be implemented in such a way that the restriction measure itself does not pose a risk to third parties. The plan should also identify what legal restrictions in the entity in question mean in practice and how they are implemented in practice. Here, too, hearing children’s views and experiences is a priority when drawing up a plan. Mr President! The proposal also contains changes to the provisions on restrictions. It would be possible in the future to take over objects that endanger the provision of replacement services. The takeover of tobacco products and nicotine liquids would also be possible. Where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a child or young person has substances or objects that interfere with the organisation or public order of foster care, it is possible to carry out a personal examination of the child. However, this is not possible because of the search for tobacco products. The institution should immediately take measures to search for and return to the institution a child who has left without authorisation and inform the authority responsible for the child’s unauthorised absence. The institution and the authority responsible for the foster care of the child shall cooperate in bringing the child back to the institution. The provisions relating to insulation are amended to shorten the isolation period from day to day to 12 hours and to extend the isolation decision for only another 12 hours instead of the current day. This provision contains details of measures to ensure the safety of the child during isolation. The content of the items to be included in the decision on isolation will be clarified. In addition, the ex-post individual assessment of the restriction on an individual child, including interaction with the child’s own social worker in the municipality of residence, will be specified. And yet again, Mr President, control. It plays an important role in ensuring the legal protection and good treatment of children. The supervision belongs to the Regional State Administrative Agencies and Valvira. They should consult children’s views and experiences when carrying out controls and visits to foster care centres. This provision strengthens and thus strengthens the supervision of foster care. This aims to prevent the abuse of children in foster care. We always have a duty to hear about the child. Mr President! With regard to this control, we will also present and have submitted to Parliament a supplementary proposal to the budget for next year, which will increase the appropriations for the Supervisory Authority, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Institute for Health and Welfare, in order to strengthen the knowledge of child protection in the ministry but also in the field of supervision. The examples I used in my speech may sound remote, but at times they are even harsh in the most demanding services of child welfare. We are talking about young people, perhaps those on the threshold of adulthood, whose own freedoms and limitations are a difficult slope, where legislation must be unambiguous and in the best interests of the child. We are also dealing with crime, violence and intoxicants when we discuss restrictive measures, and always with experts in the field, skills, ethics and security. I think this proposal, Mr President, is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u8	Madam President! In 2016, the Finnish Government apologized to people who had been abused in child welfare services. The government gesture was necessary. In the last century, Finland built an archipelago of girls' and boys' homes, where there was often ruthless discipline and even direct subjugation. Fortunately, this situation has moved forward. The implementation of legal protection for children placed in foster care is important. The success of a welfare state can best be measured by how it treats the weakest. This applies to all children in closed institutions but, in particular, to foster care. They are children whose care and upbringing are no longer the responsibility of their own parents, but of strangers. The need for legal certainty enhances the need for understanding, education and love. The Government’s proposal to reform the Child Welfare Act includes measures that meet the above objectives. Child care should be better planned than before. Restrictive measures to protect public safety and the interests of children must be justified and their use limited to the minimum necessary. The supervisory resources of regional government authorities need to be increased and children need to be consulted on issues relating to them. Hearing the opinions of the children placed is challenging, and it takes a lot to motivate the workers responsible for them. However, this consultation is not only about legal protection but also about education. Our message is that everyone has the right to be heard. Our message is that everyone's views have value. Mr President! Society must strive for good results by means of justice and respect for laws and human rights treaties. That must be said forcefully. However, it should be borne in mind that the issues under discussion are neither black and white nor easy solutions. In many cases — and we could say that in ordinary cases — children are in pre-school age or even on the threshold of adulthood. They may have reached the physical dimensions of adults. They have ideas about the adult world, ideas that are often distorted and are even more exacerbating. In short, and frankly, protecting children and their environment is not easy. When there is talk of holding on to permitted restraint measures, it is often not a matter of holding a small child but of controlling a young person with physical strength who is an adult. When restrictive measures refer to checks on persons, these may be drugs or sharp weapons. Care should be taken to ensure that the staff caring for the foster children are able to carry out their duties. The bill imposes more obligations on them. For example, the return of children who have escaped from foster care is increasingly the responsibility of the institution’s own staff. However, with the reform, there will be no additional resources to shoulder these responsibilities. The bill gives the necessary right to take out tobacco and tobacco products. Those who work in the field of child protection have signalled that the rules will not be enough since then. For example, how can an employee who has a parenting conversation work if a youth who sits across the street does not look up from the smartphone’s app? The telephone must not be put in a cabinet for the duration of the debate, let alone for a longer period of thought — and yet that educational debate must be possible,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u11	I shall give the next floor to Mr Laiho, and then there may be a debate if there is a need to do so, so that speeches can be made from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u12	Mr President! The Parliamentary Ombudsman has carried out several inspections of child welfare services over the last couple of years and has drawn attention to important issues there, particularly the lack of adequate resources for monitoring care and the lack of adequate consultation of children. The children who are stationed are the most vulnerable, and they are under the authority of others. It must always be remembered when they are spoken of as being in the process of restricting their rights. You have to be very careful where the limit is drawn, what is the right of the child and what is involved in the investment or the safety of the child. There have been a number of shortcomings, and this is clearly a point of clarification, and I am very pleased that Minister Saarikko has brought this proposal to the table, which is capable of improving the situation. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, public authorities must always take the best interests of the child into account. Such an investment unit, that environment, can easily begin to live in its own world, and then it is necessary to have adequate supervision and training for the staff as well as perhaps a job cycle, not too much to stay in its own environment, and to be able to see, so to speak, the trees of the forest. But it is also a very challenging working environment, and children who are often placed in the background have truly shocking life experiences, and then have to cope with them. It cannot always be required to behave as if there had been a normal home background. But it is also a very demanding environment for staff. This is also why cooperation with social welfare and health care, child psychiatry is of paramount importance and should be strengthened in the future. It is important that these escaped children are taken into account in this bill because there is a clear problem at the moment that these teenagers are running away and then they are all over Finland, and who has the responsibility for returning them? It is good that this is clarified, and it is good that more resources are available for monitoring. As far as isolation is concerned, this is a difficult thing to do, but I would really like to see a real focus on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u13	There were hopes for a debat. I'm opening a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak for one minute to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u14	Mr President! A few things that I can get in touch with myself. Now we have a lot of private institutions. Perhaps there will be more of them with the reform of social services. One question — and this is the aspect of the staff — is that question of dimension. We have defined in Article 59 of the Child Welfare Act how many staff there should be in general, but it has become known to me that, for example, there is one nurse on the night shift. The situation is that there is not even an alarm button, but it is ordered to call 112 if there is a danger. This is, of course, legal protection for a nurse if something happens and, of course, there will be situations for children to go through. I'd like to ask, is there any sort of nurse measure coming up on this? My second question concerns whether we have considered the legal certainty that other children or their guardians have there. If there are very dangerous other children, only some of the staff are aware of this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u15	Mr President! Restrictive measures have been very much in the social debate, including in the interests of the child, and in this respect the Ombudsman's numerous reports are indeed terrible for Parliament to read. On matters of child protection alone, the Ombudsman has very long identified the current shortcomings: poor access to qualified social workers; lack of general resources; the turnover of workers; the quality of services; inadequate supervision of foster care; not always enough time for child welfare authorities to monitor; insufficient responsibility for the supervision of family care by municipalities; children do not always know what rights they have, what social worker; and so on. I have to say about this proposal which the government is now bringing here, that it is commendable,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u16	Madam President! The children placed often have many accumulated, difficult problems, and it can also be difficult for a professional educator. Some may feel that there are not really ways to interfere with young people’s activities. How can we support the workers in the institutions in their demanding work to ensure the everyday and well-being of seriously symptomatic children? Personnel competence requires continuous orientation and training. This is not only a question of skills at work, but also of safety at work. Employees also need adequate work guidance to support them. President! The Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to the need for qualified social workers. The number of employees and qualifications can be reduced in municipalities, and in many places wages also lag. These are serious things. Child welfare needs its appreciation, and I therefore thank Minister Saarikko for this important step.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u17	Madam President! It must be a day for children's rights, and in particular work must be done so that the most vulnerable children are able to be children. Children are children, even though they are young, and I welcome the fact that Minister Saarikko will bring a bill that has long been expected and will also have resources for monitoring. For next year's budget, more money will be made available for child protection and family assistance, for preventive action, in order to support, for example, families in which the child is located, so that the whole is considered. I personally consider this bill to be very demanding, and I want to look at it in such a way that children in the most difficult position are brought through this bill with borders and love. It is important that there are clear rules, and it is particularly important that the child is heard and the child involved. So we are going to go over this bill very carefully in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u18	Mr President! As the Minister mentioned, there are nearly 20,000 of these children outside the home, not only in institutions but also in foster families, and hopefully one day they will reach zero. So that's what I'm calling prevention. But now I'm bringing up foster families because they're familiar. I would ask: do children and children in foster families have the same rights? Sometimes I have had to deal with whether a child placed can use a phone, a computer, send letters to parents, siblings or others, and whether there can also be visits, because in many cases it is the case that children do not get to look at their loved ones, i.e. there is a lack of such things. Of course, you could send a message to the supervisory authorities over there. Unavoidably, that everyday life is not as rosy as we sometimes think. But I hope this is it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u19	Madam President! There is a lot of good in this bill, but I myself was wondering whether this bill would also address or strengthen prevention adequately. It is also apparent from this bill that social workers often report a situation in which a psychiatrist refuses to start therapy for a young person until he or she has been taken into care and placed, even if the young person does not necessarily have any need for custody and placement. This is often due to insufficient mental health services. For example, recent studies by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and Talentia have reported that investments outside the family are increasingly driven by the fact that mental health services are simply not available enough for young people. That's why we're in this kind of crazy situation that the feeling of a young person gets so much worse that then we'll be there for special psychiatric care, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u20	Mr President! The welfare of a child and the rights of children are obviously at the heart of the Child Welfare Act. However, this is a demanding whole, because it must be possible to set limits for the child himself and others. The safety of the staff and the ability to carry out educational work must also be safeguarded, and the regulations must give them sufficient opportunities, especially in the case of young people with very demanding problems in life, problems with substance abuse and mental health, perhaps with a history of violence. It will also be a question of the safety of the whole community and its staff. It is also essential to have sufficient staff, staff training, sufficient resources to ensure that educational work can be done in a high-quality manner and that there is no pressure to resort to unnecessary means of limiting it. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister whether this law allows us to restrict the use of a mobile phone or computer for a child who has been placed? Parents know that restrictions are often needed at home, and they are probably also needed to safeguard the growth of children who are placed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u21	Madam President! This proposal is very important, and I must say that as these children's custody and investment continue to grow despite many good measures, they do tell a great deal about the ill health of society. This proposal states that a care and education plan should be drawn up. That's a very good goal. I would like to ask the Minister how we are prepared for resources so that this can be done — when, for example, the Disability Act requires similar things and it has been in force for many years, and yet for many people with disabilities, care plans may not be available for years, even though the person is covered by their services. How is this resource side supposed to be handled here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u22	Madam President! The Child Welfare Act now under discussion always offers last-hand opportunities to help those children who have problems growing up. In this context, particular attention must be paid to preventive work, early family assistance, identification. The cooperation of the clinic, pre-school education and school with child welfare authorities is absolutely essential to plan this preventive work in such a way as to help families and children as early as possible. In helping, the skills in the units that carry out this help are absolutely central — the grip on which the work is carried out, not so much formal qualifications, but how to help the young person, how to arrange for him to have the domestic conditions from which he goes to school, he learns to live, he goes to vocational school. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have had far too little discussion about the educational background that these child welfare professionals should have. The university degree of community pedagogist is completely underrated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u23	I'm asking you to stay on schedule, because this is a limited time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u24	Madam President! Yesterday was indeed the International Day of the Rights of the Child, and this is precisely what today's bill is about, namely the rights of children and young people. Yesterday, a number of social workers published a statement on the burden of social workers, stating that the situation and resources of child protection have not improved over these years, but rather have deteriorated, i.e. children's rights are not being realised. The quality recommendation for child protection dates back to 2014, and in order for social workers to be able to carry out their duties in accordance with children's rights, they have stated that there should be no more than 27 children per employee. According to reports from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, workers currently have over 100 children per employee. I would now like to ask the Minister: what is the government going to do to reduce the burden on child welfare staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u25	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction to the law. The child is a glass vessel, said my mother back in the day, and it is a fine symbol and true. National Child Welfare Days considered what permanence means for a child and what it means. I would ask you, Minister, does this bill safeguard permanence in childhood? After all, foster care is temporary, but usually takes a very long time in childhood. It is good that resources are being allocated to child welfare. Early intervention is important, and it is great that there will also be control. What about hearing the baby? I think you can hear a baby even from the time you're a baby. Do you agree, and does the law safeguard the hearing? There are many children in the world who lack arms and love. I believe that the adoption age in Finland is too low and should be increased. That has nothing to do with this, but I wanted to say it because a person over 50 can be able and able to adopt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u26	Madam President! It is easy to agree with all the speeches that have been made, and I would also like to say that this is an important proposal that takes things forward. I would also like to thank the Minister for his valuable speech and the content of the law and also for painting the world of values we want to go to and how we ensure that every child and young person gets a valuable childhood and youth in which his rights are fulfilled. I thought I'd give you a brief word of greetings from the kids. A Youth Day was also arranged in connection with Child Welfare Days, and I had the privilege of meeting 50 young people with different child welfare backgrounds. It was quite obvious at the meeting that the need for consultation, the need to say words, to talk about your own experiences, to be part of the solution of how to proceed from here on out. And perhaps the greatest experience was the feeling of not being seen or not being heard. The worst of all were the stories that felt that adults were changing all the time, there was not even one permanent, safe adult. If it were, it would be a crucial and hugely important factor,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u27	Madam President! Working in child welfare services is a challenge. As Mr Heikkinen asked earlier, I would also be interested to know and hear from Minister Saarikko whether attention has been paid to the mental well-being and well-being of those working in the services. What kind of measures may have been planned?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u28	Mr President! This is a matter that is not simple — and the answers are not simple — but very complicated. On the other hand, we are dealing with a phenomenon of which the representative: Toivola spoke: Children in child welfare feel silent, perhaps invisible, and would like to hear more of their own voice. At the same time, however, social workers or foster care workers in child welfare, for example, report situations where they feel that they have more precise and stricter boundaries at home for their own children than they do at work in foster care, saying that it is against the best interests of the child. We are dealing with a difficult question and that is why these proposals are certainly necessary. However, I would like to ask the Minister: what kind of follow-up is there with the reforms that have been made so that we can see whether we are going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u29	Representative Myllykoski, and then the Minister's answer will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u30	Madam President! Thank you for moving forward, but I would like to ask the Minister whether the government has in any way assessed the cycle we face when poverty is inherited, but also whether we are now in the third or second generation, that the children taken into care are the parents whose children are still taken into care. So how do we work on this so-called aftercare? Now we have it for 18 years. Should we openly believe that we would be given more guidance and care already, say, over 20-year-olds, in order to enable those young people to set up those families in the future when they are? The ability of an established child to feel family centered is different from that of children who have grown up in the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u31	And Minister Saarikko, answer for five minutes. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u32	President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for a valuable and good debate which recognises that the subject is not particularly easy. We have a strong common vision that we are seeking the best interests of the child on the ground, which in these cases is not always easy to define. I will try to answer the questions you have asked. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Sarkomaa clearly defined me: in essence, this is a question of borders and of love. In his speech, Mr Tuppurainen painted in an excellent way the everyday examples we are dealing with when we talk about restrictive measures, including the fact that, in the image, child protection can indeed seem to be the everyday life of infants, but we are talking about working with young men of seventeen and a half years of age, who are, in fact, quite rough young men. Congressman Kiljunen, you raised the issue of staffing and loadability. Now we have to recognise that this bill tackles the issue of substitute care, and much of this issue of staff adequacy has also addressed the social work that identifies the needs of custody. I have taken very seriously the message of the actors in this field, which was last spectacularly presented on the day of the rights of the child a year ago, and it started a long process of the work of Aulikki Kananoja, the implementation of a team model of the Lappe Change Programme, in which children's protection work together. Aulikki Kananoja's final report will be handed over to me at the end of this year. Then we will continue the discussion on the image of child welfare. The need for further development highlighted by both Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Myllykoski is also central to this. I recognize them exactly the way you raised them. That is why I am now putting in motion the work of the working group and, in particular, about this after-care: Even the term ‘child protection aftercare’is not relevant to me today. What do we mean by trying to support young adults whose growth conditions have been poor, who can quickly create problems with authorities, crime, debt, intoxicants and relationships? The whole thing should be thought of in a whole new way, and that is what I am prepared to do and I want to pave the way for the next government to develop this. The same applies to mental health services. Mr Talja said that we should be able to do as much as possible in child welfare. I agree. Therefore, schools, clinics, student care, all these services that are part of the everyday life of other children are also good for child welfare and their children, but one particular issue is mental health services. At the moment, all the feedback is based on the fact that these services are not sufficiently coordinated. Better structures are needed for cooperation, which this whole programme of changes in child and family services, as it were, paves the way for, but the issue of child protection must now be tackled as a specific issue. We're not answering it yet, but we're working on it. Congressman Juvonen was wondering if he could stay here. I'm worried about the same thing. We have information that, especially when we talk a lot about the everyday life of school homes now in this proposal in these restrictive measures, it is, on average, the seventh place for a young person when he ends up in a school home. Can't talk about permanence. The permanent nature of the staff was also highlighted by Mr Kiuru as the Ombudsman's observations. And that is why this debate, which has been taking place this autumn — I have wondered a lot about whether it was likely to attract operators in the sector or to attract permanence to the staff, when there have been some rather strong speeches about people, many of whom, however, have tried to do their best with these demanding cases. So, yes, permanence is the goal, and that is why I said that the spirit of child welfare, in which the strongest message is the priority of family investment, must be critically assessed when the law comes into its ten-year age now. Is it really the best option for everyone when it leads to a chain-drenched, loose path of fragmented services? Mr Kiuru raised the issue of self-determination law, the law on customers and patients, which unfortunately, due to its constitutional problems, will not be discussed during this parliamentary term. I also think if I dare to speculate enough about the work of Parliament that it would have been a huge package for the Constitutional Committee, which has its hands full. But you can be sure, Mr Kiuru, that I will do everything in my power to bring it here as soon as possible, regardless of the next government, because the sector, the staff in the sector, in particular, needs it and it is linked to this same terrain as the restrictive measures in the area of child protection that are now being brought here. Congressman Sarkkinen, you asked about smart devices, cell phones, computers. The law states that if it is considered to promote the growth and development of a child, the device can be removed for the night. That is what the proposal says. I figured it out right there. I wasn't sure about it before. That's how we finally set it up. Mr Mattila was concerned about the staff's ability to cope. This is something that needs to be addressed. It is primarily the responsibility of the service provider. It's not the government that can answer. It's the service providers. And in this respect, the industry's reputation as an employer, but also as a guardian of children, is particularly important to safeguard, and I hope that Parliament will go through this proposal thoroughly from the point of view of fundamental rights, but bearing in mind this difficult but important nuclear union of borders and love here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u33	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u34	Mr President! This proposal is necessary and timely, as the latest reports on the situation in child protection and, in particular, on the situation of children placed outside the home are worrying. I think it is right to ask how it is possible, for example, that we have the operating models that have been presented in the Ombudsman's report, and how the differences in quality can be so great in different places, because I also think it is important to remember that we have very good and high-quality activities. This does not necessarily always come up in this debate. Well, why have these things come to this point in some places: perhaps one of the reasons for the shortcomings is that the supervisory resources of the regional government authorities have deteriorated considerably in recent years and, for example, they have had to be reduced. This message is also a concern of the regional government authorities. Self-monitoring, although it is a good method of quality development, is not always enough to ensure legal certainty. After all, there are similar problems outside child welfare, including care and care for elderly people. According to the registered self-monitoring plan, everything may seem to be fine and in order, but then, at the time of the inspection, serious shortcomings and shortcomings in the operation will be detected. I would have liked to know the Minister's opinion on whether we have too much confidence in the possibilities of self-monitoring to take care of the rights of the most vulnerable. And, Mr President, at the end of the day: I think it is very good that this law requires that there should be sufficient skilled staff, because that is an essential condition for proper action. Continuous training is also important, and finally, I would like to emphasise the importance of leadership in order to ensure the ethical and proper functioning of operations and also to develop the skills and skills of staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u35	The time has been spent on this, so the debate and the matter will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u36	We shall now resume the debate on the fourth item which was suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u37	Mr President! Children and young people affected by child protection measures are challenging customers in many ways. By their conduct and actions they stretch the temper and patience of those who work with them, but professionalism should never be deceived by employees. The Government’s proposal to amend the Child Welfare Act aims to strengthen the child’s right to good treatment, care and education. Regrettably, these children and young people are often the closest family member to the authority. For over 30 years, physical discipline has been banned in Finland. Children who often become clients of child protection measures have a wide range of experiences of physical and mental violence. Childhood and youth have included insecurity, neglect, but also physical tampering with them. The bill seeks to strengthen the right of a child placed outside the home to safety, protection, physical integrity and physical and mental integrity. Undoubtedly, it is challenging for the employees of the protection unit to remain an adult and to use only the means permitted by law when faced with a swearing, smelling and perhaps even physically defiant child or youth. The bill aims not only to safeguard and strengthen the rights of the minor who needs protection from society, but also to clarify the rules of the game for those who work with the person subject to protection measures. Restrictions are still in place, but they must not cause harm or harm to the child and young person. Treating a child must never be submissive, disciplining or otherwise offensive or humiliating. Children and young people who are customers of child welfare services also have the right to grow up to be balanced and happy adults despite their challenging backgrounds. If the childhood family has not succeeded in sufficiently supporting the growth of the child and young people, society must take responsibility and make it possible, through measures in the area of child protection, to ensure that the activities are proper and sustainable. The bill strengthens the hearing and involvement of children and young people in matters that concern them themselves and hopefully helps them feel that they have opportunities to influence their own lives. Mr President! To conclude, it is worth investing in the work of those working in child protection units. This will allow for the successful implementation of child protection laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u38	Mr President! As many people said earlier in the day's debate, it is easy to define the best interests of the child politically and unanimously. I believe that the entire hall wants to be in the best interests of the child in this country. However, when we go deeper in child protection to what is in the best interests of the child, we are already in more difficult waters to define. There are two kinds of messages from children in child welfare, child welfare or child welfare. For example, the Ombudsman for Children has pointed out on several occasions that he has encountered glaring excesses in the treatment of the child in his work. Children with child welfare have reported a lack of voice — having the opportunity to be heard or understood — many have had shortcomings. On the other hand, there has also been a great deal of discussion and thought from those who work for child welfare in recent times. One child welfare worker says that meeting parents, for example, often weakens the child’s well - being, but it must be done when prescribed and agreed upon. After such a meeting, the child will be away from the foster home on his own and all night long, and perhaps the next week will be to put the child’s life back on track. This is, of course, a single example, but it shows that it is difficult to define precisely, for example, when it is in the best interests of the child and when it is a question of achieving the legislative objective we see. Then again, the message of another worker is that, in the midst of all the rush and complaints, restrictions may not be made even in the case of fear when they are needed or should be made. One worker has also said that he is keeping more strict rules and restrictions at home for his own children than in child welfare, at his workplace in a foster home, for those children. However, he says that it feels bad because it is these vulnerable children who feel that they need limits in order to feel better about security, a security such a child may never have known before. It is therefore important that these issues are now being improved and developed in this legislation. But we legislators have something to find out where we are genuinely talking about the best interests of the child: How can we ensure that children who have experienced a lot of evil, instability and insecurity in foster care can be protected by law, raised to freedom and responsibility without forgetting care, warmth and love? How should we learn from children who have experienced being abused twice, first in their own home and then later in their foster home? In addition to legislation, we will eventually become involved in the application of the law, its monitoring and the competence of professionals. It is also a question of the number of adults in these foster units, foster homes where the children are. We must also take care of every aspect of this if we want to be in the best interests of the child. Mr President! Finally, our network of services continues to focus mainly on helping individuals. However, care taken or even family murders have always preceded the whole family’s nausea. The family is such a tight community that the problems of an adult’s own problems also undermine the well-being of other family members, and when a child is taken out of the family, such as a symptomatic child, a change in the child’s behavior can be made for the better. If work is not done at the same time to solve the problems of other family members, the child cannot be returned to the same environment where the symptoms have begun. You don't always notice this. The child’s symptoms are very often related to family problems, and even in our support services we should be able to look at the whole family in the future, and there too in foster care we must be able to take into account that, even if the child’s situation is better, if the parents’ problems continue, these can also have a significant impact on the child even in short meetings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u39	Mr President! Child welfare and children always need protection, and it is a good thing that these things come back to us from time to time. When it comes to taking children into care, moving children out of their own home, we must remember that a lot of people have a so-called glass childhood, that is, family history of alcoholism, addiction, drug abuse or gambling addiction. These, of course, cause the child suffering, and in very many cases the grandparents have become very important people for this child. Grandparents have practically cared for the child, raised the child, and children have spent much more of their time with their grandparents than with their own parents, because grandma and grandpa are safe and it is safe to be there. Unfortunately, too often, when a child is taken into custody, forced custody, grandparents are completely excluded from this situation. It is very often said that 50-year-olds or 55-year-olds are too old to raise a school-age child or a school-age child or a school-age child. It's not like that. Life has changed and moved on. We live as parents, and we are much older. Too often, too, when a child is placed in a foster family or a foster home, the relationship between the child and the grandparents is cut off by the authorities, so that the child becomes unwittingly abandoned by the grandparents and, of course, does not understand the situation for which the grandmother or grandpa is not allowed to visit or for which they are not to be called. I would like this matter to be brought before us when this law is being prepared, to see what is the status of grandparents and what is the right of the child to grandparents. In any case, the basic point is that no child has too many loving parents. No parent who takes care of a child who loves a child, holds his hand and irons is too much is needed for them all. Then we also have what is known as voluntary custody, which takes place in such a way that parents or parents contact social services and ask for help if the child has problems. Indeed, the child may then be placed, and then, for example, the child benefits will be transferred to the investee and, if they do, the maintenance benefits will be transferred to the investee and, in addition, the parent will have to pay some costs there. If the question is that the parents have really been, or the parent has really been, genuinely concerned about his or her own child and asking for help, this will cause an unreasonable financial disadvantage to the family, especially in cases where the child is then at home on weekends and, for example, at home during holidays, because these payments are not, as a rule, reduced. That's where they should be lowered. In addition, a parent who has ended up in a voluntary investment gets into a bit of an awkward middle office, for example, if he or she has had problems at home with a child, for example, he or she has skipped school or something like that. If you can’t do anything about it there too, and the child is distressed, you can’t go back home. And what should not happen in child welfare is that children's welfare is not dared to be contacted when the help of child welfare is needed, when the family needs support, and this should be considered together as to what are the things that are best for the child. The whole of this legislation on child protection and custody is a terrible thing and a difficult thing, and it is certainly not unambiguous. There must be as many stories as there are children in custody. In all cases, it is good that these things are being discussed. In addition, I would also like to say that I would really like to draw attention to the fact that we also have these foster families, other types of foster families, support families where children’s children can spend a weekend or every other weekend, for example, so that they can get out of the home, if the home does not have the opportunity, for example, to ride or engage in something, or if there is a single mother or a single parent, so that they can have one weekend off and the children are somewhere else. But it is good that these things are being considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u40	Mr President! The fact that significant and major changes have been made to this law since the consultation, and I therefore hope that, as this is now going to the committee, there will be time, despite all the urgency, to hold a comprehensive expert hearing so that we can then be sure, with the expert consultation, that these changes, which have come to this presentation since the consultation, are also the right ones, according to the experts. As far as social workers are concerned, even though this does not affect the social workers of child protection, they are an important part of this puzzle and their lack of resources and the constant turnover of social workers are bound to affect the lives of children and the work of workers in foster care, which is why we must also be able to correct that part of the puzzle in addition to this other legislation. Indeed, at the end of this year, the Minister promised the work of the Aulikki Kananoja study, and I expect that the results will be processed and we will see how it can further strengthen this process. Then we must remember that in order to survive, the child has often had to learn perhaps even questionable ways of reacting to rules and obligations or relationships in general, and we should also be able to find the places where these locks can be opened in addition to all the restrictive measures, and therefore mental health services and therapy services are an important matter for improvement. Finally, I say that the follow-up to this bill and to the future law must be made and monitored in order to see whether these blackmails have been able to respond to the screams and needs that have now been experienced. Furthermore, we need to be able to increase control resources, because the message from the regional government agencies has been clear: the resources are far too limited. We need to know what is happening in child welfare facilities so that we can also be in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u41	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u42	Mr President, ärade talman! Too many people today suffer from debt problems. At the end of 2017, the number of enforcement debtors was already around 246,000, and according to the statistics of Customer Information Ltd, the number of persons with payment difficulties has also grown faster than in many years. There are already over 380,000 people in default. There are a number of different causes behind the debt, and there are no easy medicines for the problem. We need a wide range of remedies: preventing over-indebtedness, for example by improving economic skills, supporting responsible credit markets and helping those in debt problems. As Minister of Justice, I have helped to tackle this problem through a wide range of instruments, a debt-relief programme. For example, resources for financial and debt counselling have already been increased, incentives for the employment of the enforcement debtor have been improved and the establishment of a positive credit register has been examined. This proposal is one part of this intervention in over-indebtedness. The proposal aims to reduce the debt problems caused by the most expensive consumer credit. Debt cases related to consumer credit constitute a significant part of the debt cases dealt with by the courts. According to statistics from the Ministry of Justice, approximately 376,000 cases were resolved in district courts in 2017. According to the statistics of Suomen Asiakastieto Oy, 293,000 copies, i.e. the majority of cases, were debt sentences against persons. Approximately 64 per cent of these were credit and single credit, according to customer information. In addition to short-term credit, the group includes traditional credit card credits, part-time credit and secured consumer credit, but not, for example, mortgage credit. The purpose of this proposal is to moderate and clarify the pricing of consumer credit. The interest rate ceiling is proposed for extension and tightening. The proposal seeks to support the functioning of a responsible credit market and to help people avoid debt spirals. Mr President! Under the current legislation, the cap on consumer credit only applies to loans of less than EUR 2000. The annual percentage rate of charge for such credit shall not exceed 50 %. This bill would extend the cap to all consumer credit, except mortgages secured by mortgages. This would also cover loans over EUR 2000 and all commodity-linked loans. The interest rate cap would be defined in a way that differs from the current interest rate cap based on the actual annual rate of credit, with the law setting a ceiling on the interest rate to be charged on the credit drawn. It is proposed to set the upper limit at 30%. The aim of the change in the interest rate cap model is to make regulation more effective and simpler to comply with and monitor. The proposed limit is estimated to have a degressive effect on the prices of the most expensive consumer credit without preventing a viable lending activity in the future. For example, there are currently loans on the market with an annual interest rate of more than 100% and an annual percentage rate of up to several hundred percent. When setting the interest rate cap, a balance has been sought between credit products of different loan amounts and maturity and at the same time efforts have been made to keep regulation sufficiently simple and clear. The proposal would also limit the right to collect other credit costs from the consumer. These include withdrawal fees and monthly or annual fees. In addition, the right to charge the consumer costs for the extension of the payment period would be restricted. A severe penalty would be imposed for breaching these rules. In the event of a breach of the cap on interest or credit costs, the consumer should not be charged any interest or other credit costs. This amendment aims to improve compliance with regulation for credit market participants. Mr President! In general, the reform is expected to moderate credit prices. As price regulation limits the ability of creditors to recover excessive credit costs from consumers, it also limits access to credit at the current level of credit risk. The reform is therefore likely to reduce credit granting to consumers with high credit risk. It is clear that the proposed regulation alone will not solve the over-indebtedness of Finns. Several different actions have already been taken and projects are under way. This is a broad package in which the citizen's own responsibility for his or her own finances always comes first. I consider the proposal now before us, which seeks to address the excessive interest rates in particular, to be an important part of the overall management of over-indebtedness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u43	Mr President! Interest-bearing traffic is prohibited in Finland. That is why it is difficult to understand the profits made by quick-lease companies, which are already moving in the grey area. I have never understood the fact that the situation of people already in great distress is going to get even worse under the law. The fact that the customer rarely knows what the real cost of the credit he has raised is makes it particularly problematic. Often, a loan raised for a small need must be repaid with a new quickie. After this, the cycle is complete. Unfortunately, many of the people who are quick-leasers would not get a normal loan from the bank, so their ability to perform their obligations is, in principle, weaker than the people who are receiving the loan from the bank. Many people have been driven into payment difficulties by quick buy-ins and, over time, many have also lost credit information. This may mean, for example, that renting a dwelling is difficult or that it is impossible to obtain the home insurance required by many landlords. It is easy for everyone to understand that problems are beginning to be significant here. Eyes should also be turned on the causes. We should start thinking about different possibilities for social credit, because social credit would enable us to offer small and low-income loans. This would certainly help a lot of people in life’s small needs, such as the replacement of a broken washing machine, for this is precisely the reason why a lot of quick levers are now being taken. Well-designed, organised and regulated social credit could also prevent many other problems. Equally, improving people’s livelihood would help and reduce the need for quick levers. It would also be good to consider whether we should teach young people better economic governance in schools. Now it seems that many young adults have problems precisely because their own financial management is not in order. In order to improve this, more effort should also be made in schools. We do not need new subjects — enough to look at the content of existing subjects in a new way, including life management and the economy. It would also be a good idea to calculate, for example, the cost of a 50 - euro quick payment in the case of interest - rate bills. I think it would be an eye-opening experience for many young people. Mr President! Finally, I would be in favour of a total ban on speed levers. I therefore hope that, once the legislation has always been tightened and tightened, but the problems still have not disappeared, we will have the courage to look the truth in the eye and say that the speed lever as it stands is not in the interests of the people and could be banned altogether.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u44	Madam President! This bill is very welcome, especially because the management of many people's own economies has been driven into a completely impossible situation because of these easy-to-be, quick-to-loans. In addition to trying to intervene in these matters through guidance and guidance and social credits, these measures are also needed, as is the case with the draft law. It is always the case that when a person falls into such a spiral of speed or even a worse debt problem, it incurs significant costs for society, so it is certainly more reasonable that this legislation should be taken over in such a way that the creditor's liability becomes more pronounced. The proposal brings new opportunities, clear, more precise responsibilities. They are now divided between the taker and the giver and bring the tools needed. Mr President! The ceiling on interest rates is now being extended to all consumer credit in the Consumer Protection Act, which is an excellent thing. The ceiling could also have been much lower. It would have been possible to go directly to figures that would not make these credits completely impossible to repay. This is where the debt counselling and financial administration were raised. I also think that it is an absolutely central part of this whole problem when it comes to people under the age of 30, especially those who are in debt. At the other end are older men over 60 years of age. It seems that at both ends that economic control is somehow missing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u51	Mr President! In the referral debate there is a government proposal to amend the provisions on consumer credit agreements. It is related to tightening the regulation of speed levers and is very much to be welcomed. There have been problems with online and SMS credit applications since they entered the market in 2005. The problems have been addressed by a number of progressive changes in the law. The most significant impact is the interest rate cap set in 2013 for loans below EUR 2000, but it is essential that efforts to reduce the adverse effects of quick-leases continue with determination. Several loopholes have been left in the legislation and one of them is now being corrected by this government proposal. After the interest rate cap regulation entered into force, the amounts of short-term loans were reduced, but quite soon quick-credit companies moved on to granting larger loans outside the interest rate cap, where the actual annual rate is generally more than 100 % or even significantly higher. Work is therefore still needed to prevent over-indebtedness. The indebtedness of Finnish households with consumer credit is increasing. The combined consumer credit stock of households amounts to nearly EUR 19 billion. Although the number of copies of short-term loans granted has decreased since the beginning of the decade, the volume of loans has increased considerably. The number of people with payment problems is high and has been constantly rising. In 2017, it was approximately 373,000 people. The objectives of the performance are important. Its main objective is to reduce debt problems caused by the most expensive consumer credit. It is proposed to extend the cap to all consumer credit in order to reduce debt problems and excessively expensive credit supply and to prevent regulatory circumvention. The interest rate cap would be defined as setting a ceiling on the interest rate to be charged on the raised credit. The upper limit would be set at 30%. In addition, the right to collect other credit costs from the consumer would be limited. This proposed regulation will not be an exclusive measure to solve the problem of consumer debt, but other measures will also be needed. Another key instrument is the creation of a positive credit register mentioned by Minister of Justice Häkkänen in his speech. It's been cleared up. It would be important to bring this proposal into effect as well. The social credit that Mr Salonen was sensibly talking about is very much to be welcomed. Espoo has positive experiences of social credit so that the municipality helps families, families with low incomes, in situations where suddenly money is needed. For example, when a washing machine can break up unexpectedly or become important hobby expenses for a child or anything central, without any major debt interest the municipality can offer the family a helping hand in these situations. I would like this model to be introduced very widely throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u52	Madam President! I am sure that there will not be a single speech in this Chamber that would criticise the Minister. What we are dealing with here today is a proposal prepared by the rapporteur, Mr President. It must be said with satisfaction that on this front very positive things are happening in this government and measures are being taken in matters of over-indebtedness and credit. It is excellent that we deal with these issues in this way. During the last parliamentary term and the previous one, we have already tried to reduce the excessive interest rates on the speed levers, and we have achieved something. Was it Mrs Katainen and Mr Toivakka, who gave us this 50% interest rate cap, but so it turned out that the fast-start companies started to grant EUR 2000 limits. Although the borrower only spent EUR 300 of it, he was not given the EUR 300, but was granted a limit of EUR 2000 on the basis of which this interest rate cap no longer worked. The best thing about this proposal is that it is now becoming like the skin, so that we hope there will not be such a cycle. But let's see what happens in the future, because money creates ideas and new innovations on the part of creditors. What is particularly important here is that we can make a social effort to make sure that we do not deliberately bring anyone into a situation where the economy may be marred by an impulse loan. And what was on the agenda here was just how quickly we could be in debt in one evening when we were taking quick levers from many companies. On this point, I must also mention the initiative of the representative colleague who has already come to Parliament. When Satonen suggested that aggressive marketing and marketing in general would be banned in relation to these quick drinks, I did greet it with great joy. It would be important if we could perhaps agree, in connection with the social or regional reform, that when I remember that we have 33 municipalities in Finland, and Espoo is one of those who have introduced social credit, we have There are only three municipalities in the Satakunta where this has been done. My own municipality will be waiting for a social welfare reform, if the opportunity for social credit is made possible on a provincial basis rather than on a quick visit, because it is very important — and I too have written about Mr Salose’s speech here specifically in this washing machine — that if a family or a single person comes to the point of having its own income, the funding is not enough to buy a product related to normal living, whether it is winter tyres or a washing machine, then it should be possible to obtain a moderate interest rate-linked loan to it, and not by having to make a quick payment. This would be a very important reform in the sense that this would enable us, as decision-makers, to strengthen the fact that we are preventing market forces from being subject to and forcing families or individuals. In this context, it is also necessary to state that we in Parliament have taken a legislative initiative in this area with regard to the removal of default marking faster than at present, and, Mr President, we are forced to read a text message which has arrived today thanking us as parliamentarians, who represent more than 870,000 citizens behind this bill, so that the Minister will take this with him, too, because the citizen writes: ‘Thank you for giving more rapid thought to the matter of returning credit information. The situation for me is that because of divorce and business, the financial issues got tied up and there was a default mark. A year ago, I paid all my debts, but I don't get all my credit information until the summer of 2021. I think it is a terrible long time for me to have handled all my affairs properly for a year.” We need views that, in the case of quick-leases and default marking, we could bring to man the fairness that it would not be possible for a person who has already suffered his sentence to still be on probation after the sentence has been served. But thank you again, Minister. If it were for me to have brought such a bill as a minister, I would have listened to the praise and incense that is, but it is supposed that the minister will continue to work hard on the speed levers and on behalf of the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u53	Mr President! The quick levers will inevitably also lead to the vout, which means that people will be forced into enforcement, and that is why I want to tell you a few chapters about this: This year, by the end of October, 462,000 people in this country were affected by what is known as the 'voud' action, an increase of 20,000 in the previous year. Why did these people get there? I'll tell you what. Hospital and other institutional care fees, dental care fees, health centre fees, social and health care charges, child day care fees, other social and health care charges and home service charges — these bring closer to 400000. These alone make it closer to 400,000. We've got half a million people in custody right now. And now, if it is said that these people have been subject to enforcement because they are unable or incompetent to handle their affairs, I say that is not the case, listen, this is the case. Certainly, some of the people in the quick-wipe cycle are those who have not been able to handle their affairs skillfully, but some are those who have been forced to resort to quick-wipe because bread must also be on the table, the children must be in day care, the teeth must be taken care of, the health center must be visited and paid for. And they cause a person to simply drift into the spiral of being forced to resort to these very bad forms. If we are talking about incompetence at this point, let every politician go to himself. We're incompetent. We have allowed this situation to arise in this country. We are active not only in the Finnish Parliament but also in municipal councils. We could do something about these things. We must also look at ourselves in the mirror here. The fact that this has now been raised in such a way as to reduce the interest rate is of course a good thing, but now the somewhat cross-cutting word that Mrs Myllykoski needs to be said about this. In my opinion, if the interest rate is set at 30%, it is a Pharisee activity. 30% of people who have nothing are too much when a congressman walks into a bank and gets a loan of 1.5% — a huge difference, a huge difference — or no more than 3% will pay the loan interest. 30% is a loan shark, and it's legal loan sharking in this country. We used to have something like a bill. It was considered a costly credit. Its interest rate was 16 per cent. It was valid for three months at a time, and the interest rate was only 16 per cent. It was cheap. Wouldn't it be reasonable for even that interest rate to be calculated? And then the creditor must also have his responsibilities. If the creditor gives credit, he must in some way make sure that he gets these loans back in the normal way and at a low interest rate. And if this is not the case, if there is no liability on the part of the creditor, then I believe that it is necessary to stop doing so completely, to discuss with the established financial institutions, with the banks what could be done, and also seriously consider social credit, a low-interest loan, which would allow people to pay off their own debts. In other words, Finns pay their debts. The Finnish wants to pay for what he has borrowed. But if the situation gets out of hand so that interest and expenses are so high that capital never gets smaller, and if we bless it, I really do not know what to say about this. I'm very sad. Yes, we must accept our responsibilities. We have come here to represent this people. We must also pursue things that will help this people to be in distress — especially in view of the fact that the majority of these people who are in this cycle have certainly not themselves been able, might or did not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u54	Mr President! At the outset, it is appropriate to thank Justice Minister Häkkänen for bringing this important proposal on the regulation of the high-interest caps into the House so quickly. Perhaps to the previous speaker, Mr Tolppänen, [MariaTolppincalls for an answer ] The reasons for this motion have been well explained in previous speeches. Despite the change in the law in 2013, which set a cap on almost all consumer credit below EUR 2000, the importance of quick-leases in the annual worsening problem of over-indebtedness by Finns remains significant, if not decisive. In the fast-start companies, over EUR 2000 credit lines have been created with tens, if not hundreds, of quick-leases or hundreds of quick-leases. This proposal, if it is not now stopped, will at least significantly limit this unhealthy and unfair quick-lease activity. A particularly good lesson from 2013 is that this time no upper limit is set for the application of the 30% interest rate cap. Thus, it is also a good tool in the fight against over-indebtedness of Finns, even though this arrangement is not complete.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u55	Madam President! It's important that we've got another step in this place to cut off the quick levers. Indeed, I believe that there will certainly be a majority in this Chamber in favour of these reforms. I would hope that, in addition to the small steps that are being taken now, we could quickly also discuss the restriction of the marketing of speed levers to a wider extent than is now being done, because it is very aggressive in prime time. If you open a Finnish television channel, it is very likely that within an hour you may see several quick - selling ads that are still being directed at audiences who may be considering spending that has no real meaning for everyday well - being or anything else. In other words, from the point of view of preventing such over-consumption, it could be justified to restrict the marketing of quick-leases. I would also like to highlight the importance of a positive credit register. Fortunately, the matter has been clarified. I hope we will see steps in this direction soon. From the point of view of social credit, we should continue to extend its familiarity and, in general, people's means of accessing social credit, if necessary, and to offer social credit and debt counselling more broadly as genuine alternatives to situations such as those described well by Mr Tolppanen in his speech and where people may get caught up in a spiral of speed. I am a little concerned as to whether this measure, which we are doing now, is sufficient for us to really be able to constrain this rather reckless market, because up to now the fast-track market has found ways of circumventing the regulations imposed by Parliament, and this has been going on for years. I would therefore like to see further follow-up after the entry into force of this proposal. Finally, I would like to highlight the management of the everyday economy, the economic education and learning of children and young people, which is also a subject of much talk at the moment in the field of teachers. Economic skills should be taught from early childhood education, so that people are in the best position to survive in such a world, where there are so many temptations available. To conclude, as Black Friday Day in Finland has already expanded to Black Friday, it is now on the top, and we are being offered a wide range of ways to get quick pleasure by buying something that I generally hope that in this house we will also build a society in which people do not have to fill the spiritual issues by consumption alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u56	Madam President! Very good speeches have been made here on this legislation, and in that sense it is good to agree with these speeches regardless of the direction in which they came from. As has been said here, the main reason for these quick-wipes has been either poor economic management or there may also be difficult crisis situations in the context of the life situation, which in themselves have created difficult situations and economic problems for people. For example, because of unemployment or mental problems, depression, students may have lost their student support, and thus life management has become more difficult, indebtedness, gambling problems, and many other things have led to people being driven into quick-movement. And, as has been said here, one major problem, particularly with regard to these speed levers, is the spiral of speed and the increasing difficulty of the problems that arise from it. It has been said that the speed shift is the biggest and worst of the problems of the quick levers. It describes the situation in which a person is still seeking new loans in order to be able to pay back the last credits he took. Often this can continue as long as the problem can be concealed and prolonged. Then the situation will really be much worse than it would have been if the problem had been properly tackled and corrected right from the start. For example, easy access to guidance, advice and low-threshold services would be extremely important if people are to have the courage and courage to seek support and help. For example, this kind of debt loss of EUR 500 may have grown up to tens of thousands of debts and thus this situation has become even more difficult and the situations and problems have accumulated. In that sense, I warmly support the thinking that Mrs Salonen brought here today. He believes that speed vipers should be banned. I do not know how that is possible, but they should be made so difficult and difficult that people would not seek these services. However, just as has also been said here in the speeches, we should rather try to get those backgrounds, which is why people are looking for quick levers and seeking a solution to that. Here, for example, the marketing of speed levers is one of the things that has been raised here today. I do not know if other colleagues have come, but at least I have received e-mails, advertising on the use of quick-leases from time to time. For some reason it always comes in some time periods, but then it disappears again. In other words, not only does it appear on television or in the press, but it is also directly brought to our e-mails. This lending facility should be developed in such a way as to allow access to low-interest loans and to social credit. Unfortunately, social credit is not being used enough, and most of the time there is a lack of funding and many times the criteria for access to it are very difficult. That is why it would also be extremely important to diversify and develop this social credit. Then there is one thing that has disturbed me in many ways, which has been seen in the case of these quick-ups and also in the case of people with payment problems, sick people and people with low incomes, that is that our social and health care payments are often excessively high for low incomes and sick people, and that has led them into payment problems and withdrawals. As Mr Tolppanen has pointed out, among other things, this problem, we should develop precisely in these situations, where people suffer a lot and are on low incomes, to moderate these customer charges, to be a genuine, real alternative, that people do not end up with payment problems because of their illness, and thereby, for example, to get a quick-up or then go into enforcement, and thus their life situation and even their health care and medical care may become more difficult. For this reason, I would like us to be able to continue this development work in order to moderate these customer charges in such a way that, regardless of illness and low income, people have uniform rights and access to health care and that these fees do not become an obstacle to their own health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u57	Madam President! I thought it would have been enough for three minutes, but there are so many good speeches here that it would be better to make time so that we do not have to run here in the middle of the speech. This system of ours, which we are assessing and also criticising, is our one which, as I understand it, is now reforming the system of results. I would like to point out that it would also be possible to reflect now on the transfer of debt advice into the profit-based system of the voucher system, rather than the fact that this chain can only grow all the time and the amount of payments will be high, because we know even now that once you have got into the problem of quick-lease and thus become subject to the payment default marking and when you go to court, you can get rid of these excessive recovery costs by placing a small box paper in the district court that does not accept these excessive recovery costs. But if there is no more resources for it in that moment, then perhaps it would be good for us to consider how we prevent the chain from growing. When we have a clear connection with the cooperation of quick-lean companies and recovery agencies, often the same owners there in the background, we should be able to intervene in such a way that this system of ours would also be reformed so that it would also be part of the advisory service for these over-debted people. Well, we can discuss whether in a market economy we can eliminate quick-leases and quick-lease companies. I do not believe in this, and for my part I think it is a good thing that, in the event of a sudden need for funding, a family economy or a private person has the opportunity to lend its own temporary lack of money quickly. We may be able to influence the conditions under which we can obtain them here by means of interest rate definitions and others. The question here is whether it is a business with a Y logo or a gang of vests that lends its money. This is Mrs Myllykoski's reflection on whether we are going to eliminate this business as a whole and then give it to non-tax and non-legislative operators who then borrow money in some ways and also collect it in a slightly different way, where legislation is not able to intervene. In that sense, I would like to see a healthy border between what is also a business activity in the lending sector and that of the banking sector or companies. In any case, in these costs of recovery, we should have the courage to deal with the fact that the lender has a responsibility to whom he gives the loan. That's the creditor's responsibility for it. Of course, this positive credit repository will allow it in the future, but even today there should be more chance that we will require the creditor to take his own risk in terms of the possible recovery costs if the borrower does not pay his own obligations. Of course, we want every debt to be paid so that it does not remain to be paid by others. Madam President! For now, like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u58	Madam President! In my memory, 11 years of work in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have been carried out on several occasions and it has been thought that provisions have been found which, in practice, are sufficient to prevent the use of speed levers. Every time, the marketers and the companies in the industry have been more clever, inventing a loophole. And when you look at these profit calculations for quick-lease companies, few businesses can make such a good net profit with so little effort. Nearly 100 companies have been created in the sector, some of which are significant. This legislation has stated on many occasions that this is not covered by the Banking Act because it does not take deposits. In practice, however, there is a general over-time interest rate in the country, which, at the moment, seems to be in the order of 13%, beyond which the interest rate cannot be charged to the debtor. I once spoke at an event where there were more than a hundred debt counselors and asked how many favor the quick-wipe system, how many are against it — the fifty-fifty result, half prefers, half do not. Why? Because it quickly solves the customer's problem in the short term. If you look at the customer’s situation, there may be genuine reasons for saying that the debtor or debtor has no other choice. If you look at the activities of the banks, you usually need guarantors if you are not insured there. In practice, this lack of guarantors in this quick-wielding activity means that one person can, I would say, uncontrollably think that his own interests are not pursued by anyone else, and then the situation may be escalated, because a second quick-width and perhaps even a tenth are taken over by the quick-width, after which the situation has run away from the hands of the party concerned. This requirement for guarantors could be one way of facilitating this situation, or at least if the loan exceeds 500 for example, then a guarantor will then be required, thereby also diversifying the credit risk and judgement in that situation. The guarantor would have to wonder if he might have to pay for it. For many, this arrangement is also new to the extent that they do not understand, for example, the use of a pawnbroker or similar, in which case the property is provided as collateral for the loan, and if it is lost it will be lost. That is the end of it, which will not result in such dependence on this lender. This setting is so difficult for young people who are not used to dealing with money. Someone said that 10 percent of those in primary school who do not continue their studies later will not even be able to count the percentages — the figure may be even higher — which means that he will not be able to get into situations where he feels there is no alternative to taking a quickie, to admit to himself what a difficult situation he is causing if he cannot pay for it. The legality and disproportionateness of these quick-lease companies: I believe that unfairness would be the basis for the legislator to say that this over-time interest rate is the highest possible interest rate, so that these quick-lease companies could not be run on the same principle as they are at the moment, but would probably be required in practice to reduce the risk of loss of credit by a guarantor or two, so that the interest rate would not therefore have to be as high as it currently is due to these credit losses. If a credit company lends a EUR 1000 loan to a customer — and that repayment rate may reach 3000 in two years — then that credit loss will be calculated from the 1000 plus the normal interest rate, because the credit loss companies finance their own activities through bank loans with interest rates of between 5 % and 8 % in such cases. All in all, this is a very unfair business, and because there are no guarantees here, for example, those with gambling addiction are easily taking these quick levers and are afraid to even explain why. The second option is to convert the word ‘quick’ into a 48-hour loan,which should be used only after two days of consumption, could add to this necessary consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u59	Mr President! I had no choice but to take the floor so that the books and the covers did not leave the wrong impression of what I think. Of course, I fully support this proposal which Mr Häkkänen has brought here, and by the way I believe that Mr Häkkänen will remain in history as a very Jovial minister. He has raised a lot of things: children's affairs, family affairs, child abuse issues, poor people's affairs. He has dared to bring them up and then even get them through, first, of course, there in his own group and then there in the government patterns. Thank you very much for that. But that is precisely what Mr Lehti has just said that there is always the loophole from which to go and then to draw interest, I meant by the incompetence with which we should look in the mirror. When we legislate, we should be able to close loopholes. We should at least have the courage to close as many loopholes as possible. That is the way it is, and I hope we will then be corrected again if we have to fix it. Mrs Kiljunen also raised this bill of customer fees and what is being done with it quite recently, in my opinion. There is also a point where we politicians have to look at ourselves, because many of us are also sitting on the municipal council. It is now the case that, under Article 11 of the Act, customer charges can be reduced or even not collected in full if the customer cannot afford to pay. Of course, we'll have to find out what the situation is. This is where I want to read a quote from Kela’s researcher Vappu Verrose. He says this: ‘It would be more reasonable not to charge fees than to direct people to apply for income The question arises: should the authority be obliged to check, prior to recovery and enforcement, whether there are legitimate grounds for not levying or reducing the levy?’ This is the point for which a political decision is required. It is required of us at national level and it is also required of us at municipal level. All this law, which is now being discussed in this Chamber, is very welcome. It could be better in that 30% still seems to me to be a loan shark, but it is good that we should at least come down in some way. Here, too, we could have calculated the starting rate in itself. It is then up to the entrepreneur to decide whether the activity is profitable or not. Perhaps some of these have been left at the bottom of the pocket for over ten years. I hope we can get this done. Then there is one thing we should discuss when we talk about the need to teach children how to handle money and understand the value of money: Explain to me how a six-year-old is taught that you can't buy anything with the Visa card. We want to take the cash out of this country and only do the card business. From now on, will we send the children and grandchildren to the kiosk for a well-deserved lollipop Visa card in hand? It's worth considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u60	I shall now limit the speeches to three speeches on the screen, and then we shall suspend this matter because the time has passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u61	Madam President! This question of quick pay, of consumer credit, is something that both the loved ones — those who have ruined their lives through the spiral of quick pay — and even the people who have experienced it personally will receive a great deal of feedback. The main feedback relates to precisely what this bill seeks to address, i.e. the fact that since 2013 actual annual interest rates on larger loans have risen to up to hundreds of per cent. There's no rationality, no common sense, no sense in the city, that can be considered reasonable. As Mr Lehti has pointed out, it is precisely these companies, which have almost a hundred of them, and some of them then have larger players in this area, that have a good rate of return. In other words, this ceiling for credit over EUR 2000 is very much to be welcomed. Furthermore, this 30% ceiling on interest is something that has been wanted for a long time — some sort of ceiling on this rate — in these comments and contributions that I have received as a representative, and I believe that many Members in this Chamber have received them. It is also very important that if the creditor or intermediary infringes the regulation on the cap on interest or credit costs, then no interest or other credit costs will be charged to this consumer at all. In this important way, the impact that this legislation will have will be enhanced and, in my view, very much and strongly adheres to the consumer's legal protection in this regard. So I warmly support this government proposal. This has been wanted for a long time, and this important problem is now being addressed. This is where Minister Häkkänen, Minister of Justice, was brought up. Of course he's done a good job. But it must be pointed out, as the opposition always does with regard to the government's proposals in such general terms, that this is a joint government proposal, which one minister will then present — and, of course, in a good way. You always have to be able to block the loopholes, Mr. Tolppanen. But on the other hand, the whole concept of ‘pork hole’ would not be if the loophole could be closed. In other words, we will do our best to do this too, but I suspect that there will be something again that will have to be covered by later legislation. But this now addresses the very questions that have been the main problems, even on the basis of feedback.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u62	Madam President! In short, once this positive credit register has come up, I would like to mention that the positive credit register is not as positive as it is intended to understand. It would become another law that would significantly undermine privacy. It would give monetary institutions almost unlimited access to our monetary behaviour, where we have applied for our loans, where we use them and so on, without having to give any explanation of how they use our data. It allows for the creation of many layers of loan people if the bank and the financial institutions can internally determine the kind of group that can only be credited in this country. There are so many layers of people born on the loan market. I would not take this as such a positive thing or even as a solution to what is currently regarded as a debt problem. Every responsible creditor already collects from the borrower all the information necessary for its lending. No responsible creditor gives credit at the expense of the guarantors; it is already prohibited by the banking law. Of course, it will take many, many years for this positive credit register to come, but these things should be carefully taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u63	Mr President! I asked to speak after the speech by Mr Lehde. I would have liked to have supported him in his good speech. Just like the representative. The paper stated that the legislation on speed levers has been developed and dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs for as many as 11 years, and he said that fast-track companies have always found new ways of circumventing this legislation, i.e. different loopholes have been found along the way. He also suggested that there should be such a guarantor requirement, and that is also what I support warmly, but I stayed to think about the fact that when these quick levers have the opportunity to take from a number of different companies, how can this guaranteer's ability then be secured that the information would pass? If you take 300 for something, 300 for another and 400 for a third, then the EUR 500 has come very quickly, and then in practice it means how this guarantee option could then be made possible. But that's something I'm sure you'll have to think about. Then, on the other hand, whether a time limit could also be set for this lever, such as a 48-hour time limit or another equivalent, that it is not available in the middle of the night, for example, when the situation in life is out of control and then a quick stop is taken to improve the situation. This is a major problem, especially for those with gambling problems, but also for others who, then, could be said, rashly take up a quick loan and think that it will improve their own life situation, when the situation can be reversed: this quick-movement can make life even worse and worse. That is why I wanted to ask for the floor and to support Mr Lehde's reflection on how this issue could be developed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u64	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u65	Mr President! I will bring a proposal from the government to the House for a new law on matriculation examination. The proposal is related to the reform of the Board of Directors' upper secondary school and is strongly linked to the law on upper secondary schools, which was adopted by Parliament last summer. The aim of the proposal is to support the implementation of the objectives set for the reform of upper secondary school education and the new upper secondary school law as the main objective of strong general education. The preparation of the proposal takes into account the broad-based working group work on the development of matriculation examination, and the law has been prepared in a very active and open dialogue with stakeholders. During the consultation, the reform of the degree was also widely considered necessary. The main objective of the proposal is to strengthen the demonstration of comprehensive general education during upper secondary school studies in matriculation examination tests. It is proposed to change the structure of the matriculation examination. A candidate for a matriculation examination should undergo five tests, including a test in the mother tongue and literature, and at least three tests in a group, which includes a test in mathematics, another national language, a foreign language and real subjects, as the candidate chooses. The change would balance the structure of the degree and guide trainees to demonstrate competence and conduct different experiments more versatilely than before. In addition, all matriculation examination tests would in future include cross-border assignments, which would give the trainee new opportunities to demonstrate its wide-ranging skills. Mr President! The presentation would strengthen the internationality of Finnish upper secondary school education. The matriculation examination could also be completed in English in the future. An English-language matriculation examination could be completed by a student who completes or has completed an upper secondary general education syllabus or a vocational qualification which is based on participation in a degree, mainly in English. For a particular reason, the test could also be carried out by another person who can be considered to have sufficient linguistic capacity to complete an English degree. A matriculation examination in English would correspond to a degree in Finnish or Swedish. The English matriculation examination would help to move skilled labour to Finland, which would have a positive impact on Finnish society as a whole. This reform has been sought above all by many cities and education providers. Mr President! As a third entity, the proposal would reduce the number of procedures and regulations related to the matriculation examination. This would contribute to the successful completion of the degree and reduce the mental burden of the degree. At the time of registration, the candidate would no longer be obliged to choose tests as compulsory or additional. There would also be no restriction on enrollment in the same degree subjects at different levels. Approved examinations carried out in the context of an abandoned matriculation examination could be included in the new degree to be started for three years after the previous examination was approved. The conditions for longer qualifications would also be reduced in order to give candidates a more equal status, for example in the event of illness or during student exchange during the course of the matriculation examination. The new law on matriculation examination is intended to enter into force together with the new law on upper secondary school on 1 August 2019. However, upper secondary school students should be able to prepare for changes in their degree in good time. Therefore, changes under the new law would apply to trainees who start their degree at or after the spring of 2022, i.e. there is a long transition period. In practice, this means upper secondary school students starting their studies in autumn 2020 at the earliest. The degree would be completed by trainees starting before that date in accordance with the legislation currently in force. Of course, I very much hope that this new law on matriculation examination will stimulate debate. It is an important part of this whole, which has been carried through during this reign, which in practice renews all parts of the Finnish education system and strengthens the future of Finnish education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u66	Mr President! At first I thought I'd talk about my place, but then I thought I'd come here anyway. Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. When I am a member of the Committee on Culture, I understand my position and role now that we are listening to experts in the Committee on Culture and then drawing conclusions from it. But just about in principle I myself am enthusiastic and interested in handling the law very thoroughly, and I think that this is one of this kind in the Committee on Education's diploma work now in the final straight. Upper secondary school is such a central educational institution, an institution in Finnish education policy, that this is now well suited to the end of our work. There are several very interesting points here where there are interesting experts to listen to. The candidate shall carry out five tests, including a test in the mother tongue and literature and at least three tests in a group of mathematics, another domestic language and a foreign language and a test in real materials, as the candidate chooses. I myself have been thinking a lot about the fact that when the mission of a high school is to be a general school, and we know that the whole of a high school is the core of its education, so how can the role and importance of a real experiment be further strengthened in this context, since it traditionally covers many of the key issues of this broad general education. But as has been said, it is interesting to hear and listen to experts from this point of view. The second big question, if not so big now, is that in future the matriculation examination could also be completed in English. After all, we have had discussions in Finland in recent months, some of them in years, even in decades, about the fact that the English language is, as it were, too strong and strong in terms of the Finnish language, the mother tongue and so on. I personally do not see these things as opposing, but we members of the Committee on Education have already received, from a high level of expertise, concerned contacts that it may be that the best is the enemy of the good. In other words, can this matriculation examination in English, when it requires a lot of additional resources and investment, in the longer term, then lead to a weakening of the Finnish language status? Of course, this is in principle targeted at families and children coming to Finland from abroad, but it is worth assessing its long-term effects in a little more depth. But we are going to go over these issues in more detail in the committee, and we are eager to begin an expert consultation. — Mr Kivelä is nodding his head that this is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u67	Madam President! Upper secondary school is an absolutely central part of our education provision and education system, and it is great that upper secondary school activities are also being renewed to meet the requirements of time. The content of this proposal seems to be largely justified and supported, and I look forward to the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which will provide us with more detailed answers to some of the questions that have been raised. In this context, too, I would point out that in order for a young person who attends high school to be able to build his own path in a world of insecurity, we need high-quality guidance for all. I hope that particular attention will be paid to ensuring that, when changes are introduced, everyone is well aware of the content of the changes. There is a very broad transitional period in this proposal, so that I believe that this will be done very well. The Union of High School Students has expressed concern about the ability of high school students to cope with the new structure. Of course, it is worth listening to them here; high school students themselves are the best experts in their everyday life. I hope that this too will be the subject of attention in committee. I cannot help but point out that the matriculation examination is apparently still being paid for. I would like to see the debate on free secondary education extended to this point as well, and we could consider whether this payment is still today and perhaps make an assessment of the impact that the abolition of payments could have. It is also good that digitalisation has been taken very well into account in the bill, that is important. And I would also like to raise this English-language matriculation examination, which Mr Gustafsson also spoke of. It has already given us some feedback, as it were in advance, and concerns have also been expressed about the status of national languages. I believe there is a solution that can be found that combines different interests, but it is worth paying attention to here, of course. In principle, I believe that everything that supports Finland's internationalisation and our future success is of course worth experimenting with, but of course we will also take care of our national languages together. Thank you for the good preparation for the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u68	Mr President! It is always significant when the law on upper secondary schools, and especially the law on matriculation examination, is being revised, so it is now. These are major reforms affecting the lives of thousands, tens of thousands of young people. I believe that this change in the structure of the degree will also strengthen the importance of real materials, and I am pleased to note it myself, as a political scientist and historian, that their importance is recognised as part of the general education which is also confirmed here. True, this English degree is well founded in the world in which we live today. Of course, this is partly related to foreigners who come to Finland. If, for example, there comes a family that the children then study here and if the parents or one of them works here, it may be that they are not here for more than a few years, when it is not necessarily the first priority to learn Finnish, but the education of those children in general. This makes it possible, just as the Minister said, that these experts find the situation more attractive than it is at the moment when, in English, this degree can then be completed in future. In addition, thousands of people, returnees, for whom this can also be a major issue, are a significant group. In addition, it is worth noting that the Upper Secondary Education Federation has also been very pleased with this performance — I would say surprisingly satisfied — which is certainly not always self-restraint when it comes to reforms related to upper secondary school. They haven't really noticed what they're criticizing. In this regard, Mr Parviainen raised the question of a free second degree. Of course, the Government and the Blues have been responsible for the meeting for Mr Grahn-Laasonen and for the Blue Minister Terho with a teaching material supplement. In other words, this is a sensitive political question, whether we want a second level free of charge for all, or whether it is targeted in some way. This government has considered that it is more justified to target this support for young people and their families who are deprived, and that is what has been done. But I trust it, as Mr Gustafsson pointed out, that he, Mr Kivelä and other good members of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy are going to go through this proposal carefully, and this will indeed come as a diploma at the end of this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u69	President! Yes, this reform of the matriculation examination is a very pleasant task for the Committee on Education and Rural Development at the end of its term of office. As the Minister said in his presentation, the red thread is the talk of general education. I remember when there was a lot of public talk before the high school reform that general education was being cut off and that the high school could go without studying history. This was more or less a city legend. It is therefore important that general education is indeed the red thread of upper secondary school education. Of course, there is a risk of tailoring course programmes for matriculation examination at the very beginning of upper secondary school, and in this way there is a risk that general education will not be sufficiently achieved. When I come from that area of Eastern Finland that is not always very positive in terms of demographic development, there are concerns about the quality and availability of upper secondary school education, as distances are getting longer, the age groups are getting smaller, the educational resources are shrinking. Perhaps there is no scope for in-depth courses, perhaps very few, and, indeed, it is only through the completion of in-depth courses that we can successfully participate in the matriculation examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u70	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u71	Mr President! I remember when I was 19 years old when I was a college student in another town, how unfair it was when my other college friends got that early student allowance, but I didn't. My parents' income was the reason for the decision. I therefore felt that this was unfair because I had been responsible for my own income and expenses for several years and my parents encouraged economic independence. Of course, the student grant during that period was small anyway and forced students to take out student loans in a different way than today, if the earnings for summer work were not enough to survive the winter. I am therefore pleased with the government's proposal that parents' incomes would no longer affect student support for a 17-year-old student living independently and that he would be entitled to student money and a state guarantee for a student loan. At the same time, this is a recognition that a 17-year-old student granter forms his own household's housing allowance when applying for housing allowance and he is covered by the general housing allowance. Previously, he has been counted as a member of his parents ’ household. Although the law obliges parents to be financially responsible for their children under the age of 18, family situations are very different. For example, rural municipalities do not very often have secondary schools, usually upper secondary schools or vocational schools, but those who leave their primary schools have to move away from their homes after their studies. The current legislation may have put parents in a difficult situation, since society has shown financial responsibility for living and living with the parents. Mr President! The proposed changes equalise students, so they are very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u72	Mr President! This is basically a very simple proposal, a change in the Student Support Act. The impact of the income of an independent student under the age of 18 on the amount of study allowance will be eliminated. This is a good change and is also in line with the green educational policy objectives. I would also like to point out, as in the previous paragraph, that we should continue to design and hopefully introduce free secondary education. I hope that this issue will also arise in the preparation of Finland's next Government Programme. The study material supplement that we discussed earlier is an important addition to the everyday life of many students and a good one, but I would say, and the Greens still think that it is not enough, but bigger steps towards the free second degree must be taken more widely. Various studies have shown — including the Amisbarometer — that different costs of life and the cost of studying can prevent students from even continuing to train, and can influence whether, for example, there will be negative interruptions in secondary education. These are a big issue on the professional side, less on the high school side, but nevertheless an essential issue for education policy as a whole. D.O.B. I hope that we will continue this debate so that, in the future, we will perhaps focus more on how we can achieve free secondary education for all and how we will support those who have separate special needs separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u73	Mr President! Christmas comes to many students this time after Christmas. This proposal therefore proposes to give up the impact of parental income on the basic amount of the study grant and the housing allowance if the student is under 18 years of age and lives outside the home of his or her parents. Mr President! This is a good and fair piece of legislation. A student under the age of 18 who lives independently is entitled to the same benefits as other students without a need-tested parental income. Excellent and equal reform, and I thank the Minister for Education for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u74	This is now the second good government proposal. That is something to be said out loud when this is so extraordinary, as we all well know. I would also like to refer to Mr Parviainen's speech when he said that he hopes that he will also proceed with this free second-degree approach, which is therefore linked to this increase in compulsory schooling age, extension and thus also to these free-of-charge learning materials and work clothes etc. Mr President! In fact, I asked for the floor because yesterday the Committee on Education took, if not history, a decision of such significance when we discussed the government's proposal on the payment of this educational material fee to upper secondary school children, EUR 46 per month. In this context, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media unanimously made a statement calling for a serious investigation to be made into the possibility of giving up the ban on receiving income support unless you have taken out a student loan. It is now an unreasonable situation for many 16 to 17-year-olds when there are momentary situations and needs where income support may be necessary. Let us hope that the next government will correct this if we do not have enough time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u75	Mr President! I am also very pleased with this bill that parents' incomes no longer affect the financial conditions and study of a 17-year-old independent student. This will make it possible for young people to have a secondary degree, but I would also refer to the long-term objective of our social democrats to achieve a free second level, which will enable every young person in Finland to obtain a secondary degree. Among other things, the Upper Secondary Education Federation has estimated and calculated that the total cost of going to upper secondary school is less than EUR 3000, EUR 2600 to EUR 3000. The degree in upper secondary vocational education is also roughly the same. Some time ago, the youth barometer published an evaluation of the situation behind the drop-out of education among young people and found that one in four drop-outs of secondary education are due to a lack of money, and that is also why this bill contributes to the goal of young people being able to study and obtain a secondary degree. No one should be deprived of a secondary degree due to a lack of money, and that is why we need a free secondary degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u76	Mr President! This is a good proposal, and Mr Gustafsson said that the other one, I am sure it will be, during this government. But, Mr President, in my speech, I would like to remind you of the overall situation. It is good that this detail is corrected, that is important and I acknowledge and appreciate it, but that is a very difficult situation for many students today. We know that quite drastic cuts in student money have been made this season, major major cuts, and it is probably clear that we, for example, in our alternative budget, which was presented last week, would be cancelling these cuts, which is why we find it quite unreasonable that low-income students with these cutbacks have been placed in a difficult situation. The important objective of the social democrats that the second level should be genuinely free of charge has already been highlighted. It would also serve social equality and give all our children and young people better opportunities for life. That is why I hope that this major reform, which we are presenting and driving, will be as much as possible in the near future. President! That is perhaps what I am going to say about the situation of students in general and in general, that when we are now talking about the position of students living independently in this proposal, it is of course important to see the situation in a comprehensive way, for example, from the point of view of housing policy. It is very important that we have enough affordable housing, that both student housing and affordable rental housing are promoted, because the cost of living is what many times it feels in your wallet, and that is why it is important that we can support it as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u77	Representative Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u78	Mr President! I would like to put a tick on the wall, as the opposition here so praises the legislative proposals coming to the administration of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u83	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u84	Mr President! The Government's proposal in the debate implements a functional organisational change whereby the functions of the Population Register Centre, Local Register Offices and the steering and development unit of Local Register Offices in the Regional State Administrative Agency of Eastern Finland are formed into a single entity, Digi and Population Information Office. In practice, the tasks and personnel of the steering and development unit of Local Register Offices and Local Register Offices will be transferred to the Population Register Centre, the new name of which will be the Digi and Population Information Office. We believe that this new name is better suited to the tasks of the future agency, namely the promotion of digitalisation and electronic services, but then the tasks related to the population data of the current Population Register Centre will continue to be maintained. On this point, this whole agency is becoming an agency of about 800 people, most of which are from the local register office. All in all, we have nine different regional Local Register Offices, some 600 people working in them and 200 people working on the Population Register Centre’s side. The new Digi and Population Information Office would be the national Ministry of Finance's administrative office. The Agency promotes the digitalisation of society, safeguards access to information and provides services for customer life events. It is expected to start operations from the beginning of 2020. The proposal includes a new organisational law for the Digi and Population Information Office. The law would include provisions on the role, organisation, direction and tasks of the Agency and also a provision on the steering and development function of Local Register Offices, which is laid down in the Regional State Administrative Agency Act. The main objective of the reform is coherence of action. The change implements the Government's policy on the primacy of national competence, including in those tasks that require regional presence. The new agency would apply uniform practices at national level, which would improve the legal protection of customers and improve efficiency. From the Agency’s point of view, nationality is seen as an enabler. The processes can be streamlined together so that the work can be done more efficiently and the expertise can be used on an organisation-wide basis. This change is essential to enable the agencies to achieve the productivity targets set for them. From the customer’s point of view, the reform has positive effects. In particular, national solutions and developing e-services improve services. In this context, I would like to point out that we also carried out a study work on this reform in 2017 and this was done by the senior expert Jouni Backman, and in this work we also estimated that this reform would make it possible to do more and more work outside the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Even if the agency operates at national level, the regional presence of some of its tasks is, of course, still necessary. Such tasks include marriage marriages and public notary services, as well as some guardianship services. The office of the Agency would be decided by Government decree. And in this context I would like to say that I personally believe that more and more, when decisions are made about the various offices of the agencies, about the departments, we should bring them into the government regulation and not just leave them in the rules of procedure of the agencies. In the early autumn, I made a report on this, and we in some 30 agencies can simply decide on the services and the places of work, and I do not think it is in line with the will of this Parliament and, in my own work, I am trying to ensure that these are at the level of the Government Decree. No changes to the network of offices are planned in the context of this reform. The tasks, powers and processing of information of the Agency are largely governed by specific legislation. These provisions also need to be amended as a result of the organisational reform. However, the proposals will be made as part of a separate government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u85	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 19/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u86	Mr President! Social Democrats once again have a more responsible alternative to government income tax scales. We are proposing fair changes that support employment and growth. The taxation of low- and middle-income employees, pensioners, beneficiaries of benefits would be reduced compared to the government proposal. The taxation of low- and medium-paid labour needs to be reduced in order to make employment more attractive. In our presentation, the taxation of employees would be reduced to approximately EUR 5000 per month by comparing it with the government budget. In other words, not only those on low incomes but also those on average incomes would benefit. The average hand would be about EUR 10 more a month than in the government model. The biggest increase in income would be for wage and salary earners who earn less than EUR 1500, who would receive so-called income support in connection with taxation. This initiative and the opening-up to a negative wage tax for those with a nominal taxation rate of 0 % is an important opening, and I hope it will be on the agenda of the next government. This time we have not made a provision, but only a statement. Part-time, job-like or seasonal work would be encouraging when you receive income support in connection with your salary instead of tax retention. Compared to the government's model, we would lower the taxation of pensioners more until the income of EUR 3600. The taxation of beneficiaries of benefits would be reduced when income is less than EUR 2000 per month. On the other hand, it is time for those who earn more than EUR 90000 a year to take part in the projects: taxation would be tightened by 2 percentage points. The second, perhaps slightly smaller, yet significant reform is about the household allowance, which we would reform in such a way that the low-income ones could also benefit from it in the form of a household lunch. At the same time, the EUR 100 part of the household allowance will be removed, so that a low-income person should have only one cleaning done in his home. The upper limit of the household allowance will be reduced, except for energy renovations, which will guide the use of the household allowance to reduce emissions from housing. The Social Democrats would shift the focus of taxation from the taxation of work, pensions and benefits to the taxation of ownership. We would reduce the tax base by giving up the entrepreneurial deduction introduced by the government last year and the reduction in forest gifts. They can be considered unfounded because their impact on employment and economic growth is limited. Mr President! The SDP's tax line is guided by two principles. The first is that there must be close foundations and low stocks, and the second is that tax revenue should be taken from where it is least harmful to the economy, and taxes can be reduced where it is most beneficial for employment and growth. We are therefore going to make changes to the article in the protest and, at a later stage, to a series of statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u87	Mr President! In fact, Mr Harakka went through the main features that we have in our own tax line and recorded in this objection. They are a choice of values for a fairer tax policy. Once again, I would like you to note, ladies and gentlemen, as I am sure you have noticed, that in the option of the SDP, employees with low and medium incomes, as well as pensioners, would be taxed more lightly than the government proposes. I say this underlining because very often, year after year, here the government parties repeat that the SDP would tax more, but I believe that it has certainly come to light in that way, that it is actually known that, in the case of people with low and medium incomes, taxation would be fairer and lighter for us. And then we think so, quite naturally, President, that then if you have a little more income at that high end, you can pay a little more. And as the Magpie said there, then we propose the taxation of assets and other things. So I think we have a fair choice. This is the policy that has sometimes been spoken of in the past, that we prefer to do the robinhood of taking care of the low-income, not the Sheriff of Nottingham. Sometimes we used such illustrations. President! All in all, I think that this income support is a good start. Perhaps this reflects the fact that we Social Democrats have a lot of new things to offer in our tax lines. Similarly, on the VAT side, for example, we are proposing to reform it to take greater account of the principles of sustainable development. All in all, these are welcome and good openings. There is also a great deal to be said about value choices. Today I had very nice guests from the end of Tampere, people from Hervanta and Linnainmaa. What we were actually discussing almost all the time was precisely the fact that politics is being unequaled. They had very many questions about, for example, the status of pensioners, the taxation of pensioners. The greetings, Mr President, once again, come from the fact that, at the same time as these index cuts are being made and, at the same time, even though the medicines are paying more, at the same time there will be more patient contributions, and then there will really be trouble for the low-income pensioner. We talked about this a lot. In fact, I could quote from the weekend discussions that, in my opinion, it was very necessary, for example, that during the meeting of the SDP's National Council in Hämeenlinna, President Rinne used: [The President knocks ] a significant contribution on its behalf,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u91	Mr President! To this government proposal on income tax legislation, the Finns have one amendment and three statements. Firstly, this amendment to the article, on which we will therefore make a formal proposal in detail tomorrow, relates to the significant flaw in the fact that pensioners have had to pay a higher tax on the same amount of pension income than on the corresponding wage income, and we want to correct this. Indeed, the aim of this increase in our pension income reduction is to pay the same amount of tax for a certain amount of income, regardless of whether it is earned or pension income. This change would improve the purchasing power of pensioners and at the same time reduce income support expenditure. Then we have three statements. Firstly, we propose that the taxation of middle-income employees should be gradually reduced to the Swedish level. The change we have proposed in our alternative budget for next year would be to reduce the tax burden on employees by EUR 300 million, mainly from EUR 40000 to EUR 60000 per year. We believe that this would contribute to improving employment and consumption and would, of course, also generate more tax revenues for the state. Secondly, we propose that the legislation on child deduction still in force last year should be reinstated to the Income Tax Act. We have also made a legislative initiative on this. This child allowance was introduced at the beginning of 2015 on a fixed-term basis until the end of 2017, but it was no longer extended at the beginning of this year. The reduction is income-related and decreasing as income rises, but for families with low and middle incomes it is quite important, quite important in fact. It may mean an increase of up to EUR 400 in net income for a family of four children. Thirdly, we propose a maximum reduction in municipal taxation of EUR 200 from donations to development aid work. This could lead to a reduction in the amount of development aid paid directly from State resources. We believe that our model would improve the targeting of development aid in a very significant way. The latter three are, therefore, proposals for statements and they will be formally adopted at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u92	Mr President! In this context, I cannot fail to say what happened at the beginning of this reign. We are well aware of the debate that took place in the run-up to the elections, when it was said from everyone's mouth that the taxation of pensioners and employees must be uniform. However, the first measure taken by this government was that the taxation of employees in itself was correctly reduced, but no such reduction was made for pensioners. And we talked a lot about this, we used a lot of speeches on this. We asked Mr Stubb this question several times in Question Time because he had explicitly stressed before the elections that this is a basic philosophy for the assembly, that taxation is uniform. And as soon as he became Minister of Finance, Stubb, he first put forward this tax difference, and I think this was a considerable mistake that was made at the time of the beginning. The next time we thought about tax solutions, this kiky deal was coming up. At that time, the government promised that there would be tax reductions for employees in return, so that we began systematically asking the government parties in this Chamber that you would not do this tax difference for the second time. And so I remember how glad we were that this second time that the government tried, these tax cuts then also applied to pensioners. We believed that it certainly mattered that we, the Social Democrats in this Chamber, were actively calling for it and also in public on many occasions during this debate. That is why I wanted to review this unfortunate thing that happened. After all, the Finns were also a government party when this decision was made at the time. Similarly, in the context of our budgets, we have asked a number of times in our ponies that we would require the government to tell us where the promised possibility of deducting donations for development cooperation in taxation is. There were also promises of that in the air before the election. Then we never got an answer as to where this proposal is, but perhaps Timo Soini will now answer when Mr Savio asked. When Viitanen asked, there was no answer. And he, the current Foreign Minister, was one of the politicians who promised this reduction at the time. But here, Mr President, perhaps a few comments, mainly on these tax lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u93	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u94	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes to amend the Law on Financing Education and Culture and the Act on Free Cultural Work, and in practice it proposes that index freezing be carried out. First of all, although Finland has enough learning opportunities and places to study for all those who want to, the fall in funding has already been worrying, for example, in access to upper secondary and vocational education and the number of local education. The Finns of Peru stress the importance of secondary education providing vocational and postgraduate education and, among other things, the need to maintain a comprehensive upper secondary school network in order to ensure that upper secondary school education can continue to be provided equally throughout the country. The Government has tried to increase apprenticeship training in vocational institutions. This development is positive in itself, but our view is that the government has not allocated nearly enough additional funding for apprenticeship training, and the Finns of Peru have taken this into account in their alternative budget. In fact, even this report by the committee states that, according to expert opinions, this government proposal has a detrimental effect on the quality and accessibility of education, and it also states that, according to the opinions, financial responsibility cannot be unduly transferred to municipalities and providers of education, and because of the savings in the financing of upper secondary school, the opinions have stressed whether it is possible to organise renewable upper secondary school education as required by law, ensuring accessibility across Finland. These are very serious remarks in this report. Mr President! Savings have also hit the ears at educational institutions for liberal education, where every Finn has been able to study languages and develop the skills required in working life comprehensively and throughout the country. It should be recalled here that studying at the educational institutions of liberal education is in many respects very cost-effective, especially in situations where the student wants to supplement his/her skills without the need to obtain a full degree. We therefore believe that these savings decisions in the government proposal are rather short-sighted and so negative in their entirety that the legislative proposals should be rejected, and we will be proposing, at second reading, to reject the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u95	Mr President! After all, the government is now proposing to freeze the index increases. After all, this freeze has broken the foundations of Finnish education and civilisation now, year after year, in conjunction with the billion-dollar savings on education, research and civilisation. Once again, this government proposal has a negative impact on the quality of education and its sole objective is to reduce the resources for education from basic education, free cultural work, upper secondary schools and basic art education. In my view, public finances can only be strengthened by investing in knowledge and growth, not by cutting. The continuation of the index freezes is no longer justified in this situation, either, where the economic situation has improved significantly and, for example, tax revenues have increased more than expected. But now it is not the government’s kind of cultural heart, as far as it is concerned, at all, because the freezing of index increases continues. I will come to the second reading to play the wreckage of these laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u96	Chairman! I would like to continue by saying that I will certainly be supporting that wreck, because that is Mr Gustafsson's time in a descriptive way and he has well said the situation at the moment. It is, President-in-Office, so that when, however, we have a slight improvement in the economy and the winds of the world are blowing up, it should be noted, at the latest, that excessive savings have been made in school, and that is why it would be wise now, at least at this stage, to cancel these index cuts. We have also required the same in the social field. It has been very unfortunate, for example, that basic security is subject to index freezes, and that is not a good policy in any sense. In the Committee on Budgets, for example, we have listened to a lot of experts on general economic policy, and this cut in education is such that it is not only the education people who are concerned that they are doing these things and they are continuing to do these things, but also all the people in the economy – economists, various research institutes in the economy – say that it is a big mistake to cut education because they should invest and look into the future. As far as, for example, the importance of primary school is concerned, the great task we have to do, Mr President, is also to promote equality and to combat inequality, because there are recent worrying results in these areas as well. That is why, for example, all forms of equality money and this money, which is targeted at the prevention of school inequality, are most important. Last season, for example, the previous speaker, Mr Gustafsson, acted as a minister and there was more of this money in use, and I myself strongly stressed that, among other things, we were talking about the equality of suburbs, which is a multidimensional issue, not a matter of housing, and that is why these issues were so strikingly raised. But now this freeze, which is what the speech is about, President — it is good that we have an objection to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u97	Mr President! There is one thing that has not just been said, which is particularly close to the social democrats and me, and which is connected with the free culture work, the point of view that these savings have also led to an increase in these rates. It is, of course, unfortunate in itself, because it is, of course, more focused on the various under-represented groups, the low-income ones, the unemployed. And then it also has such an effect — and I am, of course, a little annoyed by the fact that, from the point of view of regional equality, there has not been enough strength to hold on to this, because free civilised work is, of course, an institution that provides services in small municipalities, small communities and so on — that, of course, these scarce resources have led to a reduction in the provision of training and courses and then to a reduction in prices, to a rise in fees. And it does not, of course, correspond, among other things, to the objective of involving 60% of citizens in adult education, These ambitious objectives are not now being achieved because of the continuing cutbacks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u98	President! In fact, the fact that, after all, the foundations of Finnish civilisation are good primary school, equal basic school, libraries and also those involved in liberal educational work, and I think that we should give the operators of free cultural work the conditions for action rather than take them away. Mr Gustafsson also drew attention to the developments that would arise if the rate of exchange rate increases unduly. Yesterday, in connection with the sports report, we talked about opportunities for children to engage in sports activities, among other things. Many activities in the field of liberal education are just as much to support it, to support active citizenship, and that is why I could say, as a great friend of liberal education, that I would like to see a different development in this area. President! I have often thought about the importance of this kind of money in society, that it is reasonably small in terms of the whole, but what they glow around, because all good has a huge, big impact, and then, perhaps later, it will be seen as cost savings and other things, now that they are invested in these things. That is why I would like to speak warmly in favour of these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u99	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 18/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate is — it is not over; Mr Haraka has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u100	Mr President! The general debate is certainly not closed; this is an issue that needs to be discussed. This increase in the duty on soft drinks, excise duty, is purely fiscal and, moreover, the government's budgetary technique, in the sense that it is intended to collect half of the revenue intended to reduce the vehicle tax that was previously voted on here. That is why the outcome is unfortunate when, for the sole purpose of collecting money, it is confused with health-based arguments and is faced with a situation in which the justification for the tax is totally inconsistent. This means that this increase in the soft drinks tax will also have a sad effect on the domestic juice industry. The juice industry has a significant impact on the rural economy in terms of berry and fruit processing, but also on the very industrial scale, for example, in Turku, where Eckes-Granini operates, or in the Kuopio region, where there are many important institutions, in Lappeenranta and so on, and it is completely inconsistent and unfair that, for example, the price of national berry juice concentrate would increase by as much as 11% just because the government has to fund its projects elsewhere. In this case, the goal shared by everyone that the most sugar-rich lemonades should have a smaller place in the diet of Finnish children and young people, for example, is mixed up in the fact that the Finnish juice industry has no reason to get into trouble. President! Few people have walked over Parliament's will with the same determination as they have now with regard to the sweet tax. This Parliament, and above all the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, has unanimously required the government to prepare for a new health-based tax, and it has still not been included. In the meantime, we will have more or less failed point taxes of this kind, which could otherwise be tolerated, but not when domestic industry and domestic jobs are totally at stake. That is why the only sensible solution is to reject this law because of its relatively modest state revenue and then, as proposed in our statements, finally prepare that health-based tax and also to move towards a more comprehensive VAT on sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u101	Mr President! I'm sure this bill will go to the wreckage. That is where Mr Harakka described quite well the disproportionate consequences for domestic juice manufacturers, for example. I cannot quite understand it, nor can I see it as good that when juice is made here, not with sugar added, but with these berries, fruits and so forth, it becomes an impossible situation when these taxes are constantly increased. Indeed, the result is that it can actually direct consumption to much more unhealthy drinks. That is why I would like to say that I would like the government parties to be able to consider whether this poor proposal will be forced to go to the finish line, because I believe that there are certainly a number of representatives of the government parties in the tax section who have been shaking their heads a little bit when they have understood this significance, which is certainly not positive or good. So here we have another bad bill from the government that we could gladly withdraw, Mr President. I think it is important that we also review the history of what we have said here, that the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health has, indeed, unanimously called for this health-based tax to be prepared. I well remember the situation when it was reversed in due course. At that time, Minister Orpo said that something like this will now begin to be prepared at the VM, but once again, when it appeared to be difficult in some way, he then announced later that such preparation would no longer be carried on. This is extraordinary, because the human mind does find ways. You can come up with them when you think about how someone who is difficult to implement can be done. We have found many ways to fly to the moon, Mr President. This is a funny comparison now, but it cannot be said that some reform that is wise cannot be done because it is difficult to implement it. And especially since we know that we have international examples of such health-based taxes, that is, there is no big problem of EU law, as is often mentioned here. That is why I am also very much in favour of these statements, which we are presenting here. And, indeed, in this context, we are also reiterating our new ideas with the Social Democrats on this VAT reform, which would work in line with sustainable development, as I mentioned in the previous paragraph. It would also be a good reform from which to take the catch.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u102	Mr President! I am now very surprised that such presentations are being made by the government and strike, as it were, a wet rag against the faces of the provinces. In other words, we are now told in the papers we have received here that the committee's expert hearings have highlighted that the tax increase would be entirely directed at companies that produce juices from domestic natural berries in Finland and this tax could hamper the exploitation of domestic berries and place local juice producers in a weaker competitive position vis-à-vis non-residents and, at worst, would lead to a shift in consumption to products that are more environmentally burdensome and to a reduction in the exploitation of healthy natural berries. Mr President! In South Savo we have a really good tune in catering tourism. For example, in Mikkeli, my home town, we have had a lot of new people, especially in food tourism and in various kinds of places. These opportunities in the region have been explored in the event of taste organic events. One well-known food supplier, Raakel Lignell, commented: Etelä-Savo is bursting with organic producers. Nowhere else is such a rolling nature with its lakes, organic and local-food villages possible, and the new generation can appreciate it and raise the awareness of others. This is an important strategic objective for us in South Savo. Now, then, these berry juice producers of ours are going to be hit like a hole in the ground with such presentations. Let us hope that this will change here in Parliament's deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u103	Mr President! I would have addressed just the same issue as Mr Taavitsainen, i.e. that this tax increase would be fully applied to companies that produce juices from fruit in Finland and from domestic natural berries. We know, however, that our food industry, for example, would be very happy to exploit the domestic berry industry and the natural berries, which is why this is a very contradictory proposal from the government. I am sure that we have all been able to say, with our own desires, that consumers have steered the development of the food industry in the direction that we have more and more options for healthier food opportunities, in which natural berries and fruit have been used and also less sugar used. One might imagine that Parliament would thus be supporting this type of development with taxation and thus also a signal to consumers and the food industry. That is why I warmly support the idea of this protest, which the Social Democrats have contributed to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u104	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 6/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u105	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to add a new provision to the Criminal Code on the violation of the entry ban. This crime would be committed by the person who comes to Finland even if he has been subject to a valid entry ban. The entry ban may be imposed by Finland or, in the case of certain infringements of the entry ban, also by another Schengen State. According to the proposed penalty scale, a fine or a maximum of one year’s imprisonment would be imposed for an infringement of an entry ban. Amendments would be made to the penal provisions on state border offences and foreign offences, which would no longer allow the offender to be convicted of a state border offence, a minor state border offence or a foreign offence. The new penalty rule would bring all non-entry violations under a uniform penalty scale and specify the characteristics of criminal offences that violate the entry ban. Mr President! The committee briefly explains its report as follows: ‘The criminality of non-compliance with the prohibition on entry into the country is not a legislative novelty. Currently, infringement of the prohibition of entry is governed almost exclusively by Article 185(1)(4) of the Aliens Act, which only allows the imposition of a fine. In some cases, Article 7(1) and Article 7a(1) of the Penal Code of Chapter 17 on border state and minor state border crime may also apply. It is possible to impose a fine on a state border offence or a maximum of one year’s imprisonment. It is proposed to amend the aforementioned paragraphs on foreign and state border offences so that the provisions on foreign, state or minor state border offences no longer apply to the non-entry ban.’ For the reasons set out in the Government’s proposal and on the basis of the report received, the Legal Committee considers the proposed provisions necessary and appropriate. The Legal Committee supports the adoption of the bill with the following comments and amendments: First of all, on the penalty scale, Mr President. According to the proposal, the penalty scale proposed in the motion for amendment is a fine or a maximum of one year’s imprisonment. As is apparent from the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, the legislative project is based on immigration policy measures adopted by the government, which, as a national measure, stated that the violation of the entry ban imposed on a foreigner should possibly also result in imprisonment, as is already the case in other Nordic countries. In addition, there is a government-issued asylum policy action programme which provides for the imposition of a prison sentence for the violation of the entry ban. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights notes that such policy action programmes cannot determine the penalty scale for the offences imposed. Although the legislative project under discussion has started with the operational programmes, they should not determine the outcome. The penalty scale for breach of the entry ban shall be independently assessed and prepared in accordance with the usual principles of law-making. The committee stresses that, when assessing the penalty scale and setting a new penalty scale, account must be taken of the reprehensibility, harm and danger of the offence in question and the guilt of the perpetrator, as shown by the type of offence in question. The value of the offence should therefore be taken into account. The severity of the penalty must be proportionate to the reprehensibility of the act and the whole system of penalties must meet the requirements of proportionality. The committee believes that the scope of the penalty scale should be appropriate to cover acts of varying degrees of seriousness. Where possible, the penalty scale should be proportionate to the penalty scales for other similar offences. The internal coherence of the penalty system requires that the penalty scales for acts which are generally equivalent to those which are reprehensible are as closely aligned as possible. The committee considers that the government's proposal has properly compared the penalty scales for several crimes in order to take account of this aspect. It can be concluded from the assessment that a maximum penalty of one year for an infringement of an entry ban would be appropriate for the internal coherence of the penal system. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the maximum penalty for one year in the Finnish penal system is not particularly severe. Mr President! According to the arguments put forward by the government in its proposal, there is a distinction in the case of non-entry offenders where offenders come to the country for the purpose of committing crimes here. In such a situation, for example, it may be a matter of disapproval of the motive of the act. An entry ban may already have been imposed initially on such a person because of the threat he poses to public order or security. The committee believes that, in such a situation, the imposition of a prison sentence may be justified, although it is up to the whole of the offence to determine the impact of the sentence to be condemned for the violation of the entry ban on a joint prison sentence imposed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Penal Code. On the basis of the above, and after an overall assessment of the reasons for the proposal and of the report received, the Legal Committee considers that the one-year threat of imprisonment corresponding to the state border offence is justified and proportionate in the case of an infringement of Article 7b of the proposed Penal Code. However, according to the case-law, a fine is, as a general rule, imposed on offences with a corresponding penalty scale, as shown in the detailed explanatory memorandum of the article. The committee stresses that even in violation of the entry ban, the conviction of a prison sentence would require exceptional, reprehensible features of the act. Mr President! Unfortunately, this report by the Legal Affairs Committee was not unanimous but contains an objection to the rejection proposal, and the Legal Affairs Committee itself in its proposal for a decision proposes three laws to be amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u106	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u107	Mr. Speaker! This proposal concerns the organisational reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The motion proposes to introduce a law on the Prosecution Service. At the same time, the current law on the Public Prosecutor’s Office is repealed. According to the proposal, the organisation of the Public Prosecutor’s Office will be reformed in such a way that the Prosecutor General’s Office and the 11 prosecutors’ offices under its authority will be formed into a single office called the Prosecutor’s Office. In the future, the Prosecutor General’s Office will be composed of a central administration office and five districts of the Prosecutor’s Office. The term of office of the D.A. turns into a regional prosecutor. In Åland, the official title of the District Attorney is retained. From now on, special prosecutors will be in the office of special prosecutor. All posts will be shared by the Public Prosecutor’s Office and will be located in the District Attorney’s Office or the Prosecutor’s Office. The district attorney is the head of the district attorney, who is appointed for a limited period of time. The law still provides for the functions, powers, access to information, accessibility, reserve and acting as an agent of the prosecutor. For the rest, the proposal mainly introduces technical changes to the existing provisions. According to a report received by the Legal Committee, there are many reasons for the reform. In recent years, the duties of the prosecutor have become more demanding and diverse. The number of demanding criminal cases has increased significantly. There are increasingly international connections in criminal matters, and prosecutors have been entrusted with new international judicial tasks. These require special expertise from the prosecutor. The aim of the proposal is to improve the operating conditions of the Public Prosecutor's Office so that resources can be allocated to dealing with more demanding crimes. By centralising the steering of the administration and support functions of the Public Prosecutor’s Office to the Central Unit, resources can be released for the central role of the Prosecutor’s Office, namely the prosecution work. Mr President! On the basis of the above and the report it has received, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers the proposed organisational reform to be justified. As the prosecution's activities and solutions become more consistent, citizens' legal security and equality before the law will improve. In terms of legal certainty, the aim is also to reduce the length of criminal proceedings. Mr President! A few words on the independence of the prosecutor and the Prosecutor's Office: First, the independence of the Prosecutor's Office is important, especially as a guarantee of a fair trial. In its opinion on the motion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the importance of the independence of prosecutors not only in deciding on the charge but also in terms of the duties the prosecutor has to perform, for example, when issuing a sentence or when making a motion for a judgment. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it necessary for the Committee on Legal Affairs to consider the inclusion in the law of a provision clarifying the independence and independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers the comments made in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be justified. In the Committee's view, Article 10 of the first draft law: In addition to its independent, independent judicial powers, it is intended to supplement it by pointing out that the prosecutor is autonomous and independent in making all decisions on the execution of criminal liability within his jurisdiction in the criminal case under consideration. Then just a few words about the appointment of the head of regional prosecutor. According to the reasons for the proposal, the requirements for the management of the prosecution area are higher than those of the current individual prosecution offices, which requires success in the management function and commitment and motivation. The prosecution area should act as effectively and as appropriately as possible, which is expected to contribute to the deadline for the appointment of the lead regional prosecutor. For these reasons, the proposal considers that the success of the task should be assessed periodically. The Legal Committee considers that the term of office of the lead regional prosecutor is justified, inter alia, by the above considerations. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the top management tasks of central government are, as a rule, appointed for a period of five years. This is indeed the case for the appointment of a regional prosecutor for a maximum period of five years, but the Committee on Legal Affairs has also considered and left the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states: ‘As stated in the opinion of the Constitutional Law Committee,the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the format used ‘for a maximum of five years’ has been used as a ‘period of five years’. In addition, the Committee considers that it is justified to add the The latter may become applicable, for example, in a situation where the person to be appointed is required before the five-year deadline to reach the retirement age.’ And then, Mr President, briefly. Article 27 of the draft 1st Act contains provisions on the handling of an administrative charge. According to Section 1, the Prosecutor General and the Deputy Prosecutor General are charged with an official crime in the Supreme Court. The prosecutor is either the Chancellor of Justice of the Government or the Parliamentary Ombudsman. According to Section 2, the State's Attorney is charged with an official offence before the Court of Appeal. The prosecutor is either the Chancellor of Justice or the Ombudsman. According to Section 3, the leading regional prosecutor, the special prosecutor, the regional prosecutor and the assistant prosecutor are charged with an official offence before the Court of Appeal. The prosecutor is the Prosecutor General or the prosecutor appointed by him. The committee draws attention to the fact that, in accordance with the proposed paragraph 3, the discretion regarding the use of the prosecution procedure for the lead regional prosecutor, the special prosecutor, the regional prosecutor and the assistant prosecutor would remain within the prosecution institution. According to the grounds for the motion, since all prosecutors will continue to operate in a single office, the Prosecutor-General would order the prosecutor to deal with these criminal offences under Article 24 of the draft law. taking into account the accessibility provisions. Further, the arguments suggest that the prosecutor could be ordered from another area or from the office of the Prosecutor General’s Office. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs now considers that, in order to improve the external credibility of the prosecution proceedings, it is justified that Article 27 on the proposed procedure for the prosecution of a criminal offence should be read as follows: By way of derogation from paragraph 3, in the case of the proceedings of the lower prosecutors, the discretion relating to the exercise of the right to prosecute shall also be distanced from the prosecution institution. This is very important for the overall credibility of the prosecution system. Then to the end, Mr President, the entry into force. That is what the Committee on Legal Affairs has been concerned about, as is the case with many other matters, when it has heard the operational level that sufficient time will be left to prepare for this change. The Legal Affairs Committee proposes that, in contrast to the Ministry's proposal, these laws would not enter into force until autumn 2019 at the earliest. In the proposal for a decision by the Legal Committee we have three amendments, but in the rest of our report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u108	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u109	Mr President! There are not many representatives in this Chamber, but that does not remove the importance of this issue in this legislative initiative that I am now presenting. Mr President! I would like to present a bill amending the Act on Disability Benefits. The initiative would add to the law articles on compensation for the additional costs of gluten-free diet for people with coeliac disease. This bill has been taken because people with celiac disease feel that the treatment they receive is very unfair compared to other people with autoimmune disease, among others. The problem has been that the government has not recognised the disease, which is why the government abolished the celiac disease allowance, which is why we now want to return the celiac disease compensation. In this context, I would also like to say that the Social Democrats believe that celiac disease is a disease that can be treated with a gluten-free diet. We have also included the coeliac allowance in our alternative budget. The corresponding compensation was used from 2002 to 2015 under the name of the dietary allowance. However, the Government abolished the compensation from the beginning of 2016. The name of the benefit proposed in the bill would now be coeliac disease benefit, since it is precisely coeliac treatment. Celiac disease is a medically proven incurable autoimmune disease. Other autoimmune disorders include rheumatoid arthritis, ms-disease and type 1 diabetes. The only treatment for coeliac disease is a lifetime gluten-free diet, and the treatment of the disease does not change or improve over time. It is not an allergy, although many people want to think so, but it is an autoimmune disease. The only thing that can help the situation after you get sick and you can influence it yourself is zero tolerance to a gluten-rich diet, which is why people who are affected have to follow a very precise gluten-free diet that you cannot slip away from. Untreated celiac disease often exposes people to additional illnesses that require long-term treatment and cause disability. They entail a lot of extra costs for society in terms of health care expenditure. However, with the right diet and treatment, the celiacian remains functional and functional. The gluten-free foods required for the treatment of coeliac disease are significantly more expensive than conventional products. According to a price survey carried out in 2017, dietary care for celiac disease is estimated to cost approximately EUR 62 per month, or EUR 740 per year. The cost of treatment is permanent. This initiative proposes that the allowance for coeliac disease should be EUR 31 per month, i.e. half of these additional costs for gluten-free diets. Mr President! The issue of coeliac disease compensation is above all equal treatment. It is easy to imagine that if coeliac disease existed, it would automatically be covered by the reimbursement system. When this is not the case, people with celiac disease are now completely deprived of social support. Healthcare professionals and celiacs have stated on several occasions that if there was a drug for this disease, it would certainly be accepted as a substitute. The problem is that the medicine is not yet available; the only treatment is gluten-free diet. The medical nature of a gluten-free diet has not been recognised and accepted in a manner similar to that of a medicine. Thinking about treating a disease is very limited and limited. It can therefore be concluded that celiacs are unequal compared to other autoimmune diseases and long-term illnesses. It should be noted that in many European countries people with celiac disease are compensated for a gluten-free diet. Norway's aid is as high as EUR 207 per month, while Denmark also has another 100 euros. For example, Great Britain, Italy, France and Belgium also support people with coeliac disease at different levels. It is exceptional that Finland, as a Nordic welfare state, has no longer considered this necessary. We are the only Nordic countries that do not grant this compensation, in Europe, not only Estonia but another country. Mr President! In a recent survey conducted by the Federation of Celiacs, one third of respondents stated that the elimination of the dietary allowance has led to a unilateral diet, and one quarter had had to reduce the use of gluten-free cereal products. Nearly 40 per cent of respondents had had to compromise in food purchases due to lack of money. The abolition of compensation for coeliacs has weakened their ability to follow a gluten-free diet. If a person with celiac disease is unable to treat his or her illness, the cost to society may increase to several times the cost of the dietary allowance. Celiaki should be returned to other autoimmune diseases and the benefit of coeliac disease should be reinstated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u110	President! As Mr Kiljunen said there, it is a question of equality. The bill is very important and I would like to thank the representative. Screaming for its submission and for the very competent, comprehensive and good speech you have just made. I really want to say representative I also like to scream at the fact that this is an important issue for us Social Democrats. We have set aside 15 million in our alternative budget for this compensation to be reimbursed, and it is a real pity that the government decided to give up this compensation in its first year. By the way, I still remember those times when this compensation was fought overall. It is a question of equality, and as was well demonstrated at the end of this study, which I have seen here, it will be a great cost to society in the future if people cannot manage their health. It is said here, among other things, that 53 per cent have had to choose cheaper products and 34 per cent have had a one-sided diet, 67 per cent save on other expenses, and, as Mrs Kiljunen said, 40 per cent have had to compromise their purchases because of a lack of money. There are a number of negative and alarming issues here, and I therefore doubt, President, that if we do not correct this issue, then society will be paying considerably higher costs for this in the future. So, in this context, I wanted to stay here in the Chamber and say this encouragement out loud, because this is an important issue, and I hope that we will be able to rectify this in the future. President! Thank you once again to Mr Kiljune for an extremely important initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u111	Mr President! Repayment of the coeliac disease allowance is of paramount importance. Indeed, we must remember, as Mr Kiljunen said there, that celiac disease is a disease that will never heal: it will be involved from the moment you get it there to the grave, not all from the cradle to the grave, but from the time you get it to the end. Now that we consider, for example, the index cuts that have been made and the deterioration that has been done to retired and old people, when added to it this earlier cut in the celiac allowance, it is quite difficult then to treat yourself. In any case, any illness that a person has and cannot treat and who is not wanted to treat will have to be treated later and will cost far more than a refund of celiac disease. Now we are seeking only half of what those sums are, but that would also help the people who get sick with this disease. In itself, the fact that a person also receives carbohydrates and is able to eat bread is of the utmost importance. Unfortunately, gluten-free bread is so expensive that not everyone can reach it. I very much support this bill. I really am sorry that this Parliament has removed this particular compensation once, but I hope that we will now be able to correct it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u112	Mr President! I would like to say here that, once it has been clarified what untreated coeliac disease causes society, among other things, as an additional cost, it is stated here that untreated coeliac disease increases the number of visits to the doctor's office, with an average of 4.4 times a year. When celiac disease is well controlled, a celiacian does not visit a doctor more frequently than other citizens, and when this can be calculated by the number of such primary health care physicians, it entails costs. Untreated celiac disease also causes osteoporosis, and for example, the price of a single hip fracture is about 30000 euros. This also entails the cost of fertility care, and Kela also pays three treatments in health insurance. In the case of depression, which is also caused by this untreated celiac disease for many reasons, it has been estimated that sickness absences will also increase and then additional costs have been calculated. Then untreated coeliac disease also presents a risk of cancer. So these things, which are facts, should be acknowledged and acknowledged that celiac disease is not an allergy but celiac disease is an autoimmune disease, which should be treated equally with other diseases. In addition to this, this has caused problems for the most low-income people with celiac disease, since this is also not taken into account in income support, which is why the additional cost of obtaining celiac nutrition will make life even more difficult for these low-income people when the EUR 64 per month of income support is calculated as the additional cost of this right food, food, etc. This situation has also deteriorated when the celiac allowance was abolished from the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-21-ps-118.u113	The 17th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 22 November 2018. The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly by 10 a.m. on Thursday 22 November 2018 at the latest. The debate will begin at the plenary session on Thursday, 22 November 2018 at 4 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, in the order in which he is considering, give an answer of 1 or 2 minutes. The detailed discussion will take place at the plenary session on Friday 23 November 2018 at 1 p.m. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
