ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 1/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u2	Madam President! We are dealing with a citizens' initiative for maternity and some related laws, and this is an exceptional citizens' initiative in itself, because this is the basis of a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which was not presented and adopted at the time. But let us go over these arguments from the committee. The citizens' initiative proposes to provide for the adoption of a maternity law containing provisions on three areas: maternity determination on the basis of childbirth, maternity confirmation on the basis of consent to fertility care and rules on maternity in the field of private international law. It is also proposed to amend certain other laws, such as the Fertility Treatment Act and the Child Maintenance Act. On the basis of the report presented and received by the citizens' initiative, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers the citizens' initiative to be necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in it, with the following observations and amendments: The citizens' initiative is based on the preparatory work carried out at the Ministry of Justice, as the initiative is responsible for the word word for word with the draft Government proposal completed at the Ministry of Justice on 2 February 2015. This draft proposal is based on the previous report of the Ministry of Justice Working Party and the feedback received from it, the report of the Working Party on the Reform of the paternity law and the feedback received from it. The provisions of the maternity law contained in the draft Government proposal are largely in line with the proposal for a new paternity law adopted by Parliament, both in terms of structure and content. Despite due preparation, some technical amendments are needed to the draft laws contained in the citizens' initiative, since the legislation has been amended since the preparatory work on which the initiative is based. For example, on 1 March 2017, an amendment to the Marriage Act has entered into force which has made it possible for couples of the same sex to marry. The adoption of the legislative proposals included in the initiative will also give some authorities financial resources that need to be provided with. However, the needs for appropriations are limited and have been clarified in the committee's examination of the initiative. In view of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the legislative proposals contained in the initiative can be adopted with the amendments proposed by the committee and that there is no need to send the legislative proposals to the Government for further preparation. At this stage, I would like to say that, in order to clarify the impact of children, the committee has consulted widely, among other things, family and child law experts and authorities and organisations specialising in the affairs of children and families. Mr President! According to the maternity bill, the mother of the child is the one who has given birth to the child. This provision is general and applies to all children born in Finland. This provision is new because the existing legislation does not contain a basic rule on the determination of maternity, which in itself is incredible. The Legal Committee notes that the proposed provision does not alter the legal situation, since it has been considered clear from the principle of ordinary law that the person who gave birth to the child is the mother of the child. This is also considered to be the case where the child was conceived using a donated egg and the child is not genetically descended from the giver. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports the proposed definition of maternity at the level of the law, because although the absence of a specific provision has very rarely caused problems in practice, the proposal can be seen as clarifying the legal situation. Mr President! The initiative proposes that the female partner who gave birth to the child can be confirmed as the mother of the child, together with the woman who gave birth to the child, if the child has been acquired by consensus through fertility care. The mother of the female partner who gave birth to the child is based on the consent given to the fertility treatment. In such a case, maternity can be recognised even before the child is born, either at a maternity clinic or at a child welfare supervisor. Maternity is confirmed by a decision of the Local Register Office or the Court of Justice. The procedure is similar to the recognition and confirmation of paternity provided for in the new paternity law. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the definition of "pair" contained in Article 2 of the Fertility Treatment Act, in addition to a pair of men and women, to include female couples, which allows women to be given fertility treatment as a couple. After all, in the current situation, the legislation is that when the child is conceived by a fertility treatment, the parenting of the female partner of the mother who gave birth to the child can be confirmed by the adoption within the family, in which the non-born woman adopted the child of the other party. The legal effects between the child and the parent, such as maintenance obligations, the right of inheritance and the right of access in the event of a divorce, are only born after parenthood has been confirmed by the adoption within the family. Adoption within the family requires adoption counselling and confirmation of the district court. In addition, it requires that the partners in a partnership are married to each other or in a registered partnership. This requirement applies both to couples of the same sex and to couples of different sex. As a change to the current situation, the proposal seeks to safeguard the best interests of the child. The reform can therefore strengthen the child’s second legal parent faster and simpler than the adoption within the family. It is therefore a question of legal parenting, not biological or genetic parenting. Mr President! The maternity of the female partner of the mother who gave birth to the child cannot be confirmed if the paternity has been established, confirmed, confirmed or confirmed. The proposal therefore does not affect the determination of paternity, nor does it make it possible for children to have more than two legal parents. Some of the experts consulted by the committee have pointed out that female couples should be able to choose whether the sperm donor, i.e. the biological father of the child, is confirmed as the legal father of the child or whether the partner of the mother who gave birth is confirmed as the legal mother. After careful consideration of the above points, the Legal Committee has decided in this context to support a regulatory solution which results in women's couples being treated for conception only with germ cells whose donor has not consented to the confirmation of paternity. However, it is appropriate that the Ministry of Justice separately examines the amendment of Article 16(2) of the Fertility Treatment Act and evaluate the effects of such a change. Mr President! The provisions in the field of private international law define the international competence of the authorities, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of a decision taken in a foreign country in Finland. At present, there are no such provisions on maternity in Finland, so the provisions contained in the maternity bill are new in relation to the current situation and, as society changes, they require changes. Mr President! In this connection, I shall now mention this constitutional element — for a reason. The Committee on Legal Affairs has heard of the initiative on constitutionality and the relationship with human rights treaties in order to determine whether it is necessary to request the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. According to the opinion, the fundamental and human rights that are relevant to the proposed initiative are equality and gender equality, protection of private life, the right to respect for private and family life and rights for children. The opinion of the professor of constitutional law considers that the proposed laws do not conflict with the rights of children or with the obligations of custody of children. Moreover, they are not considered as such to be incompatible with the obligations of the public authorities with regard to children referred to in Article 6(3) and 19(3) of the Constitution. The conclusion of the opinion is that, in the light of the practice of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are no grounds for considering that the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative are incompatible with the standard of equality of the Constitution. This conclusion is considered to be clear in the opinion that it is not necessary to seek the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of the constitutional nature of the draft laws. The draft laws are not considered to be related to any other fundamental rights content that would be appropriate to request the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. Furthermore, the opinion considers that it is not necessary to request the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on the basis of the human rights agreement. In this regard, the opinion draws attention to the above-mentioned rulings of the Court of Human Rights on substitution arrangements and considers that the possibilities set out in the explanatory memorandum to combat the violation of the Convention on Human Rights referred to in the decisions of the Court of Human Rights are sufficient in this respect. So this is what the constitutional authority has said — although some other lawyers, even at professor level, have expressed doubts as to whether the matter should be referred to the Constitutional Committee, but they are not constitutional experts. And after careful examination by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has used the discretion that Parliament's Rules of Procedure make possible and has firmly taken this decision after considering that the matter will not be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr President! Finally, this citizens' initiative has been extensively discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. We have heard 30 experts and asked for 16 written opinions, and the impact assessment on children has also been carried out and has also been examined, as I mentioned here, on other legislation. Then, as I have just mentioned, it has also been clarified whether this citizens' initiative can be extended, because there have been proposals in committee to extend it. But the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not end up with this extension, although it did make a clear and comprehensive constitutional report on the handling of citizens' initiatives in general in the committees, and it is worth reading the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. So all these things have led to the fact that this initiative has lasted because we want to do a good job in the Committee on Legal Affairs and that is what we have done. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs for this long-term work, which has appreciated other people and the opinions of others, even if they are not the same as their own. And to this end, unfortunately, this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs was not unanimous this time but contains an objection to the rejection proposal. I sense we're about to hear more about it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u3	I shall now open the general debate. — Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u4	Madam President! Citizens' initiative for a maternity law — its content comes from a proposal made during the last term of the Ministry of Justice's working party, which was not brought to Parliament during the last parliamentary term due to its shortcomings and weaknesses, and Even the Sipilä government has included it in their government program. The proposed maternity package contains one section on the recognition of maternity on the basis of childbirth — in other words, the mother of the child is the one who has given birth to the child. In addition, there are dozens of passages related to the confirmation of motherhood on the basis of the consent given to fertility treatment. In other words, a whole new concept is introduced into maternity: the procedure for the declaration of recognition of a mother. These provisions of the maternity law are largely in line with the paternity law, which, in principle, seems to me to be problematic. The strengthening of paternity in accordance with the Fatherhood Act is based on a completely different basis than the strengthening of another woman as a second mother in accordance with this initiative. The paternity law is largely aimed at finding out the biological father, which can easily be verified by means of a legal genetic paternity test. This maternity law, on the other hand, is largely aimed at protecting the position of the female couple who do not give birth to a child. The need for this presentation is justified by the fact that if a child’s mother dies in childbirth, the child would still have another mother. Another argument has been the difficulty, slowness and expensiveness of family adoption. If you look more closely at these arguments, neither of them really shows the need for this law. In Finland, births are very rare for the mother to die. Maternity mortality, including all deaths during pregnancy and 42 days after childbirth, is one of the lowest in the world in Finland: 2 to 3 deaths per 100,000 births. At the most, about 160 female couples have received infertility treatment each year. According to THL statistics, 127 of the sperm treatments given in 2015 led to childbirth — that is, all kinds of families, including female couples. If these figures were compared to maternal mortality, the death of a mother would be more likely to occur in the pregnancies or births that were born with donated sperm one time in about 400 years, even less so in the case of a female couple. No legislation is provided for on the basis of such rare cases. Another argument has been the difficulty and slowness of family adoption, and that argument is also very vague and problematic. International adoptions are often long and heavy processes that last for years. Adoptions within the family of reconstituted families and hearing both parents and children may also take time. Compared to these, adoptions within the family of female couples are usually very quick and very simple. In Helsinki, this usually requires only one visit to social services. Even before childbirth, you can contact a social services office, which is designated as your own official. After delivery, there is that one visit, then the signature of the pre-filled forms and the mailing of the forms to the District Court, which confirms the adoption in about two weeks. They say it could take a little longer during the holidays, during Christmas and Midsummer. Unlike other services, there are no queues for this service. There are usually two visits outside Helsinki. And this is information from the authorities. This really cannot be seen as a difficult or long process at the moment, nor can it justify a complex legislative package. The Bar Association has also stated in its opinion that it is not in favour of introducing legislation with complex, clear problems for very few situations. According to the Bar Association, it is not necessary to provide for a separate maternity law in Finland, but it would be possible to make the necessary changes to existing relevant laws. It rightly asks whether this legislation would unnecessarily complicate the legal order. There are also no separate maternity laws internationally. It has been taken for granted that the person who gave birth to the child is the mother. It is still taken for granted that the mother who gave birth to the child is a woman. These two concepts would be called into question and scrapped when this law came into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u11	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Tolva, as well as the members of the committee, for having dealt with this matter in a good and respectful spirit, even though there were many different views, contradictions and reflections. Despite this good nature of the proceedings, I believe that the constitutionality of the matter and the relationship with the human rights treaties concluded by Finland have not been assessed with sufficient care and precision in the committee. I have also made an objection and a motion for rejection of the law, on which I can read and state my well-founded view. Mr President! I propose that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, which should make a statement on the order in which the draft law is adopted, on the constitutionality and on the relationship with the human rights treaties concluded by Finland. As a reason, I would like to make the following points: Firstly, I have the impression that in committee the desire to bring this law into force was greater than the desire to understand what this law actually leads to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u20	Mr President! When you talk about parenthood, motherhood and fatherhood, you're at the core of the questions. It is not just any legislation when it comes to human identity, who I am, who I am, who my parents are or who I am inherited from. More and more people are searching for their own roots, wondering who is my father, and they feel that they have enough to deal with these questions. Until now, Finnish legislation has been based on the fact that legislation and the concepts of legislation correspond to biological facts. Even the paternity law is based on the fact that although there is a paternity presumption and a paternity can be recognised, paternity can be abolished later if it turns out that someone else is the father of the child. All these arguments are being called into question and are crumbling in the maternity law that has now been presented. It is not a question of individual articles of the law, but of the whole basic idea of the direction in which we want to develop Finnish society. I think motherhood is such a valuable thing that no one can become a mother by confessing. With this I do not want to belittle the adoption and foster parents to any extent, they have an important role to play, and they do valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u23	Antero Laukkanen, supported by Markus Salmon, has proposed that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. It must now be decided whether to continue the first reading of the matter on the basis of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs or whether to refer the matter to the Constitutional Committee. Do you want to discuss the referral to committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u24	The sitting will be adjourned for 10 minutes and resumed at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u25	We shall now resume the sitting adjourned at 2:59 p.m. Antero Laukkanen, supported by Markus Salmon, has proposed that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u26	Madam President! I think this is a somewhat sad and shameful day, because the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs recommends a law to Members of Parliament that would take a father from a child for his entire life. Furthermore, I believe that this vote a moment ago, which did not want to hear the interpretation of the Constitution, should undermine Parliament's authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u29	I'm opening a debate. I would ask those who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u30	Madam President! I believe that this citizens' initiative is important because it promotes equality between people. This is the most important point here. The fact that the child has two mothers has already been possible through adoption, but this initiative will bring forward the procedure so that the person who consents to fertility treatments would be considered a mother. This is a rather marginal issue, between 100 and 200 children per year, but the number of these cases is not important, and one case is sufficient. I believe that this is an important starting point for the child to have the right to know his or her parents and for the child's identity to be respected. However, this legislation is not enough. We also need to look at the future. International regulations must be put in place, including matters relating to surrogate birth, uterine rental. And then I think that the maternity and paternity law should be combined in the longer term, and I support the idea of a so-called parenting law, which we should also go towards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u31	Madam President! This citizens' initiative before us is in line with the UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child. It will secure effective family relations from the beginning for every child. I would also like to remind this House that this initiative is supported by all, all and all, large family organisations. This will not be visible to outsiders in any way in their everyday lives, but it is a big and important change for women's couples and an important small step towards equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u32	Mr President! I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for a good report. I say to the maternity law 'I do'. I believe that this is primarily a question of the right of the child, of the right of the child to both parents even before birth. I have listened to this debate and I have found no reason why we cannot adopt this law in this debate. This is above all in the interests of children, and I appreciate the fact that the effects on children have been examined. That is where the chairman of the committee raised it. All key family and child organisations have supported this. It is important to get rid of the heavy adoption process and even the maternity clinic before the birth of the child legally that the child has two mothers. I think it is important that in child and family legislation Finland should be a forerunner rather than a skier. Similar regulations exist in other countries, and I think it is important for Parliament to legislate on this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u33	Mr President! It is incomprehensible how civil society, with the help of the 55707 signatories, has brought before Parliament an initiative that concerns the daily lives of so many Finns in the most significant way. The primary reason why maternity law is needed is to secure family relations for the child right from birth. The Greens consider it very important that the law protects two parents from birth for the child of a couple of women. Maternity law has been running on paper for years. There is no longer the slightest, not the slightest, excuse to dwell on the matter and to dwell on it. The bill has been dealt with for a long time in consultation with a large number of experts, and the message is very clear: the time for maternity law is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u34	Madam President! I too would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for allowing us to take another small step towards a more equal society. I support this citizens' initiative because it is clearly, as the report shows, in the best interests of the child. The child’s advantage is that his or her actual parents are his or her parents from birth. And it is important that these parents also immediately have the responsibilities and rights that parents should have in connection with their own child. Previous speeches have given the impression that the only way to be a mother is to give birth to her own child. I find it very offensive. We currently have numerous, numerous children living in adopted families. They can be domestic adoptions, foreign adoptions, domestic adoptions. They are families of the same sex, families of different sex. These parents are the real parents of these children. I find it cruel and offensive that motherhood is being underestimated here, which is not the result of biological birth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u35	Mr President! I came here today with an open mind and was rather confused that Parliament does not, however, want to bring this into the Constitutional Committee of which I am a member, even against the views of constitutional experts, which have been expressed on such simple grounds. I would very much have liked to have seen this from a child’s point of view, for example, that you can consent to fertility treatment at the age of 18 and become a second mother. Then this withdrawal of the recognition of motherhood and the fact that the child supervisor can also become a mother. Let us now consider the fact that there is a child under the age of 18 and then a maternity suit is brought against him. Is it in the best interests of the child to have a non-biological mother confirmed as the mother of the child on the basis of an application and to be reluctant? Things like this have gone completely unthinking in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would have liked to see if there were constitutional problems. I'm so disappointed. Why could this not be in the Constitutional Committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u36	Madam President! Indeed, in the case of this law, the Constitutional Committee should have looked at all these points which have been raised, because this is a huge change of direction in Finnish law and also in the case law, where all these previous changes have always sought to do so and have aimed at it — including the extension of the time limits for paternity actions and even the compulsory paternity studies — that it has been sought to confirm the father of the child. It has always been considered that, as a rule, a disadvantaged person, i.e. a child, has the right to a parent who has been established since then. A very recent court ruling even ordered a DNA sample of a man buried twenty years ago to be taken on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Think about the huge change in direction in this room that has been made to everything that has so far been sought in Finnish legislation and case law, that is to say that paternity can be confirmed to the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u37	Madam President! The previous speeches have highlighted the fact that children are at the mercy of the legislation, and that is indeed what this is all about, and that is why this law on maternity law is important. For example, the number of birth deaths has been taken here, and in this way attempts have been made to justify the child's insecurity, which you represent among other things among the opponents there. It is good that there are few birth deaths in Finland, but these adoption processes within the family take at least weeks, even longer. We do not know what can happen in the meantime, there are no statistics. There may be car crashes and others, and then these children will no longer have a guardian. They are left without legal certainty and equal status in it. You want these children to become orphans at their worst. It is really sad and shocking that this is what we are talking about here in 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u38	Mr President! I would like to join the previous speakers in thanking the citizens' initiative. I absolutely support this maternity law. I myself think it's a little like two directions. On the other hand, we can look at the simple legal framework that makes the everyday lives of these existing families safer, easier and more equal. But at the same time, I believe that this law must also be seen as part of the continuum of the status of these families in this society and consider the everyday situation in which they live today and how many more of these families are struggling in the midst of prejudices, attitudes, discrimination, various stigmatizations. I definitely see that this maternity law is part of the continuum in which we place these families on an equal footing, abolishing the stigma from society, abolishing the right to put people on an unequal footing, and forcing us to reflect in a new way on how we talk about families, what kind of families we have in society and what role we have. If I think about the zeal with which this proposal is opposed and the families that are currently living in everyday life, that opposition seems quite unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u39	Madam President! There has been quite a little talk in this Chamber about the state that is at present, that is, it can take a year to complete the adoption process and the child has no other parent. This is a very unsafe episode of a child’s life if something happens to the parent who gave birth to him. This good proposal for a maternity law clarifies the legal situation, as most expert opinions in the Committee on Legal Affairs have said, and increases the legal protection of parents when the maternity clinic can already identify the parenting of a child. This reduces bureaucracy and is good in that way. But there is quite a lot of work to be done here, as has been said earlier: we could consider writing the Parenthood Act, and this matter of surrogate birth is also something that should be allowed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u40	Madam President! In Article 6 of the Finnish Constitution, the first sentence is that ‘human beings are equal before the law’. At the same time,‘children are treated as individuals and should contribute to Well, will this right be fulfilled in the case of children if this law comes into force? In my opinion, no. According to Article 7 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child — it also contains clear entries — ‘the child must be registered immediately after his birth, and he has a right of birth to the name and citizenship and, where possible, a right of access to justice and a right of parents to be treated by them’. Is this going to happen? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u41	Madam President! A few words on that process, now that the matter is still being raised, namely that of sending it to the Constitutional Committee: We actually heard in the Committee on Legal Affairs an expert on constitutional law about this particular constitutionality and human rights treaties, and that is the normal order, let us put it this way. According to our Rules of Procedure, a special committee, such as the Committee on Legal Affairs, can consider it with itself and consult experts as to whether there are some points here which should justify sending this to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, we heard the Finnish long-term expert on the Constitution, and he said quite clearly, therefore, that there was no reason to send this matter to the Constitutional Committee, and that is why we did not do so. Not all things can and should be sent there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u42	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say that I warmly support this maternity law. I am a little confused about how some of the representatives may be trying to confuse and sidetrack this issue. I also find many speeches very insulting to adoptive families, as Mr Modig pointed out. It must be remembered, however, that we are dealing with existing families and this maternity law facilitates the rights of a child born of a female couple through fertility treatment. This was seen almost unanimously in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and experts also saw this as a necessary legislative reform, especially for children's rights. Firstly, this makes it easier to confirm that there is no need for this process to take place, and also to secure the child's legal rights to living, inheritance and meetings with both parents, and I see that this is therefore extremely necessary. When many representatives here have referred to the Fertility Treatment Act, these paternity confessions and other things, it has nothing to do with this maternity law. And I would also like to say that we have other legislation to reform, such as the trans-national law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u43	Mr President! This is a matter of great importance in principle. We have been talking about equality, but when we look at children, it does not happen from the children’s point of view. On the basis of legislation, adults can now decide that this child never has a father. It's a pretty tough decision. This unborn child never has a father, and can never get that paternity legally held, and that is a great thing. We have watched from the public how many grown - up people seek their roots. It's a strong identity. Everyone wants to know where I'm from, why I'm who I am. This is not a minor matter, and this is a matter of principle. The other thing is that we must give every human being dignity and ensure that every child has a safe and good environment for growth. But we're talking about something different here. Fatherhood is a great thing in life, and everyone has a right to know who my father is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u44	Madam President! I am deeply offended, for example, by the way Mr Niikko used his speech there: it seemed to me that you were saying that you were a fool for the whole legislative committee. We have spent a lot of time, listened to experts in various fields, received statements. This is a carefully prepared report, and with the exception of this single opinion, the entire Committee on Legal Affairs was behind this citizens' initiative, and we see it as necessary from the point of view of equality between children and children. Female couples currently receiving fertility treatments, and this strengthening of the motherhood of female couples applies to unknown donors. So if paternity can be confirmed, two mothers cannot be confirmed. This doesn't hurt anyone's father's father. This doesn't take any child's father away. This is just to improve the child's position. I think this whole conversation is inconceivable. For the rights of the child, we are bringing this law into this Chamber and adopting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u45	Mr President! If we were to continue to be less offended by what others have said and focus on explaining our own views and bringing them forward. The only reason I came up with why this could not be sent to the Constitutional Committee was that perhaps that answer would not have been pleasant. The Bar Association considers that it is not necessary to lay down a separate maternity law. Directly from this statement: ‘A mother in her condition cannot be a parent of a child, so why should she be strengthened by a More natural and understandable is the fact that the parenthood of the female partner of the biological mother is confirmed by adoption. It is not “motherhood” that will then be confirmed, but parenthood.” The Bar Association should not be in favour of introducing such complex legislation with clear problems of equality for very few situations. I don't think I'm gonna have to redo biology and law myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u46	Mr President! Maternity law is in the best interests of a child. It is still a question of the families of female couples living together today, to whom the parenting of another mother comes through the adoption of the family. This does not interfere with the fact that no one is taking away fatherhood. In any case, the fathers of children born with these fertility treatments could not be strengthened, but it is important that the child has the protection of both loving parents at birth. This will also reduce red tape as the heavier way, the family adoption process, disappears and can be replaced by a recognition procedure equivalent to the paternity law already in the maternity clinic when a common child is expected. The right of a child to family life has also been safeguarded in the Constitution and in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the child must not be discriminated against on the basis of family or other characteristics related to parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u47	What confuses me, Mr President, most of all in this debate is that there is an old debate here, as it were, because this law does not change these matters now. In fact, it is a very undramatic situation: whether it takes place as a parent, as a mother, a little earlier or a little later. Even now, in these families, the child is born and the mother — not parenthood but motherhood — is confirmed when the child is born. It is now a matter of everyone’s interest, especially in the interests of the child, that it might take place earlier when the child is expected and when it is asked and performed to ensure that the family is more secure, that the child has legal rights, inheritance rights and so on. I don't understand why this is so hard. Nothing else is going to change here. All these conditions of the Fertility Care Act, paternity and who is allowed to give up, have already been decided in a completely different law. These things do not change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u48	Madam President! This bill is very confusing to me, and I would like to thank Mrs Merelle very much. He was very good at explaining this legal aspect as a lawyer and a congressman. When I read and listen to the Bar Association’s statement, I think of the position of this small person, I cannot understand the reasonableness of this bill. In this country, the confusion of traditional spending and traditional family values has gone so far that everything has been forgotten on the part of that little child. There's no one here to defend that little child's position. That is really worrying here — just as much as the fact that no one seems to defend traditional family values in this country anymore. Who will do it so that we, in the midst of this confusion one day, can say who is the father or mother? You don't know where you're going. Mr Tolvanen, chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to say once again that he has considered the constitutionality of this project, that he should safeguard this House from the situation that the committee should:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u49	Madam President! It is sad that Mr Hoskonen began his previous speech just as he listened to this debate and he has listened to the statement of the Bar Association. This was just one statement among the 30 hearings we made in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It would be good if Mr Hoskonen had also studied those other opinions, you would have a different opinion on that. It is unpleasant for you to judge the work of the Legal Committee as badly done or as being carried forward by poor estimates. We have really worked on this and we have not done this rashly, as the government is trying to do in many cases these days. This law does not deprive children of anything that comes into the present state. On the contrary, it reduces bureaucracy. One of the objectives of your government has been to dismantle standards. Here is a good example of that. We're just doing what you've been trying to do. There are these families now, children are born to these families every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u50	Mr President! As a Peruvian, I welcome this system of citizens' initiatives: a unique way for citizens to bring matters directly to the parliament. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I went over these arguments in favour and answer carefully and personally ended up in favour of this law. I do, of course, appreciate traditional family values, and I think it is a good thing that there is a debate on values, but in this context it seems a little de facto. It is in the best interests of a child to be cared for and cared for in a loving family.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u51	Madam President! All organisations and bodies concerned with the rights of children and the interests of families have supported, supported and supported the adoption of this law, the maternity law. Mr President! It seems to me that The appeal to the Bar Association is not relevant at this time. Clearly, the Bar Association is not in the best interests of the child in this matter. Instead, what Mr Biaudet said about whether something dramatic is happening here or not is an essential, relevant question, and there will be no dramatic new change in parenthood or children's rights. For example, the recognition procedure provided for by the maternity law only applies to children born in fertility treatments in such a way that the sperm donor expressly denied the possibility of strengthening his fatherhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u52	Mr President! The Legal Committee has studied the maternity law thoroughly. The citizens' initiative related to the Maternity Act is based on the preparation of legislation at the Ministry of Justice. The Committee on Legal Affairs has listened extensively to experts. In my opinion, it is to safeguard the best interests of the child that the child already has two legal parents at birth. The law is about a child born through fertility treatments. When a man gives up sperm anonymously, his purpose is evidently not to become a parent but to help the childless. Good speeches have been made here on both sides, and yet, although I am a supporter of very traditional family values, I think it is in the best interests of the child to support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u53	Madam President! Mr Nurminen said, among other things, that this has nothing to do with the Fertilisation Treatment Act, and Mr Biaudet also referred to it, but it does also change the Fertilisation Treatment Act, so that women couples can continue to receive fertility treatments together, which is not currently in the law. And yes, this actually limits the right of a child to a father, for if two mothers were confirmed, they would not be able to later confirm the father, even if the mother giving birth and the donor, the father, and the child later desired it. It's possible that this biological father will change his mind and want this child to be his father.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u54	Madam President! I believe that this debate is still being sidelined on this issue itself. However, we are talking about these families, the women who have to go through this process after the birth of the child, and there are situations in which the child does not have both parents. This legislation, this package of maternity laws, facilitates the situation of these families and, in particular, the best interests of the child. And, as I said in my speech, we have the Fertility Treatment Act, we have the translation, we have very many other legislations, so we certainly have to look at the whole thing and reform it, but this step is necessary, and this will not change anything except to ease the inevitable situation, and that will be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u55	Madam President! Thank you, Päivi Räsänen, for your speech. Now we finally hear facts arguments. So the fact is that the donor of germ cells can at present choose whether to donate them anonymously or whether he wants to leave the possibility that paternity can be confirmed later. At the moment there is no such condition that a child born through fertility treatment can automatically be informed of the father. It does not exist now, nor will it be removed. Fatherhood must be important — as it is here. Tölli said earlier, this is not a trivial matter, and paternity is by no means a trivial matter. However, I would think that if someone wishes to become a father, there may be more straightforward ways than donating germ cells.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u56	Madam President! In that sense, the interesting debate that arose in the committee in the course of an expert consultation, as I am sure has already been mentioned, the possibility that we might have added that the female couple, if they wanted to, could have chosen a germ donor who would have agreed to do this, but it was not wanted, which I thought was a little strange, since the possibility would have been left behind, would have been a traditional possibility, in your view, with a father — a legal one and probably a physical one — who would have recognised the child. But that choice was not sought, and that is why the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wrote very clearly in the report that we think it would have been a very worthwhile opportunity and that the Ministry of Justice should also clarify such a legislative amendment later. And then, of course, there is this possibility for those who want it, that there is a man who is a father who really wants to be a father, even though he does not belong to that couple’s family, then there would be only one legal mother and one father. But that's not what you wanted at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u57	Madam President! It was not sought because it changed this process, re-established this in many respects, and it was not wanted to be done. Representative Biaudet is now giving a slightly false impression of this process. It has been mentioned here that this does not change the current state of affairs. The adoption of this bill would also lead to a deterioration of the prevailing legal situation, as it is currently possible for female couples to use germ cells whose donor fatherhood can be confirmed either by the consent given before or after conception — Section 3.3 of the paternity law. President! There is a situation here that when this law comes into force, you cannot use like sperm cells that are not wanted to be recognized. But then, at the age of 18, despite these obstacle issues, this child has the right to know the donor of the germ cells — only after that. Then there was the mention of this parenting law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u58	Madam President! There is an appeal to the position of a child when there is opposition to the maternity law. However, the maternity law, as many have already said, is based on improving the legal status of the child, because when an internal adoption process is under way, the child’s position is particularly vulnerable. You don't have to be much of a rocket scientist to conclude that from the point of view of the Bar Association, the fact that we have more lawyers working in internal adoption processes is not a particularly difficult question at the moment. We're talking about a completely different interest here. In general, however, I would like to see no distortion here. When the conditions are very strict as to how the recognition procedure is to be carried out, then it is not worth claiming that paternity would somehow weaken. As a father, I find such speeches quite extraordinary. I would also like to hope that, when it is fully known that we have a religious-worldly difference of opinion, it would also be openly recognised and not always sought to cloak it in legal terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u59	Let us now take one more debate and then we shall go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u60	Mr President! I think it is quite clear from these expert reports that we are now dealing with a law that is undoubtedly in the best interests of the child. This is the reason why this has been supported by all key children's rights, children's welfare organisations. It is extraordinary that this is something that the opponents of this law completely ignore. This law is in the best interests of the children. That's why all child rights organizations support it. Time and again I have to say that I find it very difficult to understand why some representatives in this Chamber have such a great need to minimize the value and existence of these particular families. These are real families. These are real parents. They argue, they agree, they love, they care for each other just as your families do, and they listen to this conversation, so when you talk about these families in this room, talk as you would like to talk about your family. Let's give these families the respect they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u61	Mr President! Black doesn't become white and white doesn't become black when you hear it mostly from the left. Parliament should strengthen the rights of the child to his or her biological parents and not make any more laws that increase fatherless children. At this stage, it is worth asking why the right of adults to children and not the right of children to father and mother is repeatedly promoted in this Chamber. We must now ask Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Hänninen, who have left, who are both parents, mothers of children, if you do not see any obstacle to this legislation, which you say is good. A simple question on the basis of these experts: Go to the street or ask the parents who raise children at home, three questions. Can a mother be a man? After this legislation, yes. Can a child be separated from a father forever? Yes, we can fire him after this. And — the third question — can a mother become a mother by a simple notification procedure even if she is under 18 years of age? Yes, it can. These three examples alone show that this law, the maternity law, which is advertised, that it is not from anyone, is not fully balanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u62	Now let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u63	Madam President! In the family of female couples, another mother has adopted a family child so far. In rainbow families, this family adoption has been felt long and pregnant as a process. The new maternity law will bring an easier and faster procedure. Another mother can recognize a child who is born together with the anticipated fertility treatments at a maternity clinic. The recognition of parenthood follows a similar procedure in the paternity law, and the maternity can be confirmed soon after the birth of the child. The Maternity Act reduces the administration and saves the resources of society, as unnecessary adoption processes that waste the resources of municipalities and district courts are replaced by a smooth process of recognition. I am pleased that the maternity law, which improves the status of a child, was adopted by a clear majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The citizens' initiative on maternity law, which has received more than 55,000 declarations of support, was handed over to the President of Parliament in September 2016, and now nearly one-and-a-half years of parliamentary procedure is in the final stages and the law is being passed by the Parliamentary Assembly. The maternity law protects the child's right to his or her parents. It guarantees a couple of parents to the child from birth. When a couple of women who are expecting a baby can acknowledge the parenting of another mother in a maternity clinic, the child would not be orphaned and without the protection of the law if something happened to the mother giving birth. It is in the best interests of the child to have secure family relationships right from birth. In the worst case scenario, adoption within the family may take up to six months, and throughout this period the legal status of the child is unclear. Uncertainty about the status of a child brings additional challenges to parents and makes it difficult for them to deal with their affairs until an internal adoption has been made. So a change in the law is an important improvement in the current situation. The Maternity Act was already being prepared by the Ministry of Justice during the last term of government and was to enter into force simultaneously with the reform of the paternity law, but the opposition of Christian Democrats left the bill undone by the then government. Sipilä’s government was also reluctant to promote the maternity law. This gave rise to a popular movement in favour of the law, and now it is high time, with the help of the citizens' initiative, to bring into force the maternity law that has been brought to the attention of Parliament. I would like to express my warm thanks to the activists and signatories of the citizens' initiative. The recognition procedure provided for by the Maternity Act applies only to children born in a fertility clinic in such a way that the sperm donor has denied the possibility of strengthening his fatherhood. In today’s situation, these children are born with only one parent, and today they cannot be strengthened by a father. Thus, motherhood law would not deprive any man who wanted to be a father of the right to fatherhood or a child of the right to father. Regardless of the maternity law, sperm donors may continue to retain the right to paternity if they so wish. In such cases, the paternity of the child may be confirmed by the child supervisor or by legal process, either on application by the father, the mother giving birth or the child after the birth of the child, and those families may not use the possibility provided for in the maternity law to recognise the parenthood of the other mother. In committee we heard a number of experts. The Multi-Family Family Network raised the question that it would be justified to continue to allow the use of a well-known sperm donor who gives his consent to icy. This change can be supported by making it possible for a female couple to have a child living in the family if the partners of the legal father so desire. The committee therefore noted in its report that it was appropriate for the Ministry of Justice to examine separately the modification of the sentence of the Fertility Treatment Act and to assess the effects of such a change. The vast majority of experts consulted by the Legal Committee were in favour of this law to improve children's rights, and, above all, all child protection organisations were strongly in favour of the law. It's been a long time since the Maternity Act was completed. This is a performance that brings happiness to many families. It's important to children and families. And above all, it's not from anyone. The law gives parental protection to the child of a couple of women at the very first moments of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u64	Mr President! In fact, Mr Karimäki said in that speech that last season an attempt was being made to push this bill through by the Ministry of Justice, but then, as a member of the Government itself, I was able to prevent it from progressing. Now this same proposal prepared by the Ministry of Justice has progressed through the citizens' initiative. Under current legislation, maternity is based on either childbirth or adoption. We also have surrogates and social parents. So this initiative now wants the female partner of the mother who gives birth instead of the internal adoption process to be recognised as a mother even before childbirth at the maternity clinic. The purpose of this bill is therefore to bring motherhood based on the recognition of Finnish law when a couple of women have acquired a child through fertility treatments, and this is a very big and fundamental change. This whole package of laws also tells us how complicated and alien it is to try to adapt to legislation seeking sexual neutrality, the fact that the child, however — that is, every child — originates with one biological mother and one biological father. The entire paternity legislation has been based on an attempt to confirm the father of the child’s biological father. The starting point here has been the child’s interest in establishing those actual parents. There has been a lot of discussion here about who the actual parents are, and I do find it remarkable that this is an attempt to ignore this biological fact, the biological reality, completely. The proposal for a maternity law is therefore a kind of version of the paternity law, and this proposal seeks to transform the paternity law into a suitable recognition of a mother, even though its biological basis is completely different. This comparison is also problematic in that paternity is genetically possible, in contrast to this maternity law. It is not possible for this other woman to be genetically established that she is now actually the mother of this child. The fact is, too, that when two mothers are confirmed, they could not later be strengthened by a father, even if this man who donated his germ cells wanted to become a father later and perhaps this child and also the mother who gave birth. Yes, these changes of mind take place, for example, if this man finds that he will not otherwise become a father, and he is awakened by the desire to become a father and the desire to bear responsibility for this child. This child can never have a legal father. In my view, this is contrary to the principle and spirit that the European Court of Human Rights has confirmed in several of its decisions in recent years. It has been assumed that a person has the right to know his biological origin, the right to know exactly who the biological father is, because it is not always as easy to find out as who the biological mother is. For man’s identity this is very important, because knowledge about this is important in the shaping of a person’s personality. In principle, justice is for everyone, regardless of the age or life stage, and it is also important for the development of the child’s identity that he or she can know his or her biological roots and that he or she can also form a relationship with his or her father. The right to be informed of the identity of the donor after becoming an adult is not a substitute for this need. The basic problem with this, in my opinion, is that a person has the right to be informed of the identity of this biological father only at the age of 18, that is to say as an adult, so that according to this proposal the child has no right to receive this information, even though I think, for example, that would be important in the development of puberty. In adoption families, for example, it is quite important that from an early stage the child gets honest knowledge of his or her own origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u69	Mr President! Once again, through the citizens' initiative, we have the opportunity to take a step towards an equal society. I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative and say that the citizens' initiative has proved its worth. I would also like to thank the committee for a very thorough report. The committee's report leaves no room for interpretation that this is not about the child's interests. Every child has the right to his or her parents immediately from birth, and every parent must have the right and obligation to have a relationship with the child immediately. The proposed change means that parenthood can already be ensured at the maternity clinic if the fertility treatment has been started with mutual consent. This means that the children of female couples come to the same line with the children of couples of different sex. This is already the case for parents of different sexes. Fathers have been able to acknowledge their fatherhood for a couple of years already at the maternity clinic. A very good change, and so it is not only about equal treatment for parents but also about equal rights for children. The current situation is not in the best interests of the child. In the case of female couples, the maternity of the other parent can only be confirmed through internal adoption. The worst possible and most tragic scenario is that something happens to the mother who gives birth, for example, she dies before strengthening her internal adoption. This leaves the child, who actually has another loving and committed parent, alone because the law does not recognize the existence of the other parent. It is difficult to understand that the Christian Democrats underestimate this terrible situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u74	Mr President! I myself would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative. It is great that the Committee on Legal Affairs, after a long process, has put it here in the Chamber, and so, almost unanimously, has moved this matter forward from the committee. This maternity law is therefore a question of the rights of the child born with the fertility treatment of the female couple and of the rights of the family. At the moment, when a couple of women have a child, they have to go through such a family adoption process, and in many cases it is seen as very humiliating and quite bureaucratic. This maternity law facilitates this situation and is intended to safeguard the child’s right to support, inheritance and also to meet both parents. As has been said here, in a situation where one parent, even if — in the saddest case of all — dies, the child is not entitled to this other parent. In this way, this legislation will clarify this existing situation and the daily lives of these families. We must remember that we are dealing with women's families and the sperm donor has denied the possibility of strengthening paternity in the event of extradition, and I would therefore turn even more into these families and women's families when this issue is being discussed. I therefore hope that this will move forward and focus on the essentials, i.e. giving and securing a good and safe family life for these families from the outset.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u75	Mr President! Thank you all for your excellent contributions. This law is crystallized by the fact that this is in the best interests of the child, and on that basis we also dealt with this issue in committee. Many of the opposers of the law have now, with desperation, taken hold of this Bar Association’s statement on this matter. Of course, it must be said that it is quite natural for the Union to oppose such changes, which undermine bureaucracy and then deprive lawyers of the opportunity to provide legal advice, for example in the event of adoption. At the same time, I am surprised — we are not emphasising such things as: Statements by the Bus Federation when agricultural policy is being adopted. There is now emphasis on the opinions of family organisations. The Finnish Unicef, Save the Children, Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, the Family Federation and the Finnish Federation for Child Welfare support this bill. This is in line with the rights of the child of the UN, and the majority of the experts consulted by the committee were of the opinion that this change is good and necessary. This will safeguard real family relations with the child from the beginning, de-bureaucratic and will not be seen in any way in anyone's everyday life but only be a small, important and happy thing for the family in which such a situation is that this law is needed. Thank you again for the debate and, above all, thank you to the authors of the initiative. It is great to be involved in bringing this important issue of equality forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u76	Mr President! We have an interesting situation ahead of us in that we have a bill which has come to Parliament as a citizens' initiative but which has been exceptionally well and thoroughly prepared in the Ministry. There has been a working group and the draft has been in the consultation process. We have dealt with it in depth over a year in committee. We've heard a lot of experts. In that sense, at least it cannot be said that we have not dealt with it thoroughly. We have heard all those arguments in favour and in response and have taken different perspectives into account. It is also clear that there can always be different legislative solutions, but I do not think it is quite right to discuss whether the legislative solution is the right one if, in fact, you disagree with what you want. I think it would be fairer to discuss exactly what is being pursued. In that sense, whether it is a parent law or a maternity law and a paternity law, which may have been in the minds of some of the contributors, does not change what we are actually discussing. There is also no discussion of what I think is the family of stones. If I had a choice, I would encourage people to adopt far more. I think it is a very important way to become a parent, a mother and a father — there are many children in the world and in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u79	Mr President! Indeed, we are talking about a citizens' initiative that has come into this house and deserves its own valuable reading. Unfortunately, when you listen to this debate, we have not reached a valuable reading or debate here in the Chamber. Instead, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we took this initiative calmly, factually and seriously. This is therefore a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which, during the last period, was not progressing with the Christian Democrats in the government and their opposition to the issue being raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u84	Mr President! We have already had these legislative projects in the last parliamentary term to increase gender neutrality here in the proceedings, and we have already adopted this gay union law here in Parliament by a narrow majority. In that sense, this is a logical continuum for the legislative work that the majority of people in this house have wanted to do. And, in a way, I understand from those who are in favour of this bill the argument that we, who do not support this now, like ourselves, are, as it were, in retrograde opposition to it. But then the question arises as to how this situation has been brought about. This has come about in the way that this first registered partnership has become between persons of the same sex. They said this was good and that's enough. Then it was said that it is not enough to have fertility treatments for self-employed women, because in principle every woman has the opportunity to get pregnant in the same way as usual before this technique has developed so fine that she has access to these fertility treatments. And then it was said that, now that there is a situation, however, that this woman, who has received this fertility treatment, is not necessarily self-sufficient but can have a partner, that this partner must now also be confirmed as a second parent, and so it has come to the demand that this family adoption be desired. Well, that's given, too. Next, it came to the fact that now that these gay families exist — nothing at all — then we must also have this marriage law, as it has been for straight people. And then it came to the point that once this has been achieved, then we must also have that right to adopt, that is to say to external adoption. There has always been a new demand, and these have not been raised at the point where these new projects have always been approved. And that is why I am opposed to this, as I, as a Member of Parliament, am opposed to gay marriages and I am also opposed to the fact that in general fertility treatments are given to self-employed women. I think they belong only to heterosexual couples and preferably still married because it is in the best interests of the child — when, on average, a common-law marriage is separated more easily than a marriage, so I think it is in the best interests of the child — that it should only be given to married couples and straight couples. Well, the legislation has changed a long time ago, but when the way it came to this has been this way, [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u85	Mr President! I find it worrying that the citizens' initiative is called a shady way of promoting things and that would mean that it has been done with cunning. In my opinion, the citizens' initiative has proved its place and its value as a strengthening factor for our democratic institution. You said that we are doing a disservice here to minorities by talking as we do. I usually try to look at the laws, not through myself, but through the public interest and the common interest. But I have to say this to you, Mrs Saarakkala: I've been compared in this room to the animals involved. I have been told that my love is not as valuable as the love of others; my relationship does not deserve the same protection before the law as other relationships. And now I have been told that I am not capable of becoming a mother because I cannot have a child with the person I love.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u86	Mr President! Mr Modig said what I was going to say. I find it quite incomprehensible that you, Mrs Saarakkala, just said from that toilet that you do not accept that fertility treatments are being given. We also have numerous heterosexual couples who use donated eggs, donated sperm to give them that happiness, a common child. I find this incomprehensible. Even motherhood is not inherited by the fact that the egg has been donated. The same thing is for the sperm: it's not because you've given up the sperm. Being a parent is something much more valuable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u87	Mr President! You may wonder what my position is for as long as you want, but that is not a very rare position among the citizens. If you have not yet noticed, certainly not everyone agrees with you on this obvious matter. And as far as fertility treatments are concerned, I base my own view on this very naturality in the sense that only persons of different sex can theoretically get one another through natural offspring. So I see that only such persons and such couples should be given fertility treatments at all, because they even have the theoretical possibility of having children, even if there are biological problems. It's two different things to talk about a couple of the same sex than talking about a straight couple like this. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know how many people are gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u88	Mr President! I think, of course, that the whole point of populism is that it is as if people agree with me and that most others agree with me. I think it is quite clear to see here when we vote on how the majority of us Members of Parliament, elected here and discussing these issues, think.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u93	Mr President! I have now heard three or four times in this Chamber say that ‘I am insulted by the fact that you are being produced by a different mind’. That is a rather interesting concept, which is why we would have political parties if we did not disagree with each other. What is a political party without ideology? Nothing. I am opposed to a gender-neutral ideology, but I am not offended at all by the fact that Mrs Elomaa disagrees with me on this issue, for example, and we have free hands on this citizens' initiative. I believe that representative Elomaa, with good faith, is as much in the best interests of the child and the interests of society as I am. We do not agree with this. And the Bar Association considers that there is no need to lay down a separate maternity law. It's not because the Bar Association is disparaging anyone's family or motherhood, it's just the basis for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u94	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u95	Mr President! This citizens' initiative under discussion is exceptionally well prepared. Why? Indeed, on the basis of this citizens' initiative a few years ago, there has been a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, at that point almost a government proposal which, after all, was never given to this Parliament, and there has been no debate about it in this great Chamber before. In the Legal Committee we had a constructive and, you might say, respectful discussion on the subject. We have also received some criticism of the fact that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights had a long time to deal with this citizens' initiative. On the other hand, I see that we have many other citizens' initiatives that have gone on longer than this, and yet the situation is that other parliamentary work, government proposals, U-letters and so on, is a priority for these citizens' initiatives. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolva, and Vice-President Biaudet, and the committee as a whole, for being able to hold such a debate and reflection. It was not that we disagreed very much, but we have heard the experts comprehensively and we have also had such reflection that I see that the committee's report has now been refined and is at a much better level than at what level it would have been without the wider debate. Mr President! The rationale for the initiative shows that according to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, around 160 female couples are given fertility treatments each year. Although the number of cases is not very high in practice, the proposed provisions are very relevant in these cases. In other words, the current legislation allows two legal parents to be born to a child born to a family of a couple of different sexes when the child is born, and this is not the case for a child of a female couple who received fertility treatments. Indeed, the committee took the view that, in a situation where a female couple co-opts a child through fertility treatment, adoption within the family is not the most appropriate procedure to strengthen the parenthood of the other party in a relationship. Moreover, it does not best safeguard the best interests of the child, since at best the adoption within the family can only be confirmed a few weeks after the birth of the child. Problems in securing the benefit may arise, for example, if the mother who gave birth dies or becomes seriously ill before the adoption within the family has been confirmed. Adoption and thus the establishment of a second legal parent liable to maintenance may also be prevented if the applicant for adoption or the mother who gave birth to the child, due to a breakdown between the parties, withdraws its consent to adoption before the adoption is confirmed. Therefore, as has been heard from a number of experts, as has already been revealed in this Chamber today, all the large child and family organisations that have been behind this citizens' initiative have agreed that this is also in the best interests of the child. This is also the case in the committee's view that the proposed regulation is particularly in favour of protecting the best interests of the child. On the other hand, it also strengthens the parenthood and equal status of the female couple in relation to couples of different sexes, as well as the equality between the different female couples, but it is a question of the adoption by the previous Parliament of legislative changes, which, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, have also been made by the Legal Committee to a number of laws on that basis. I hope that, despite this sometimes very intense debate, we will be able to think that we will respect each other's opinions, and that respect in general requires that we listen to what the other one says and listen to it precisely until the end and not make that half of the sentence that opinion or speak it up. However, at the end of the day, I would like to thank you again. Tavio for a good speech during the debat. Love for a child and caring for a child is not dependent on whether it is a legal parent or whether it is a biological parent, that we will all sign, but it is equally important to think that this maternity law is about the child’s interests. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u96	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say or actually convey this on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists when there was such regret for one and another and for a third. Congressman Modig was already out of the gym, but maybe he'll hear or read at some point. He claimed that Christian Democrats do not appreciate adoptive families or adoptive mothers and so on, and yes, I would like to say that Christian Democrats value adoptive families as well as adoptive mothers and hope that wherever children grow up in Finland, whatever the family may be, children can grow up in a safe and loving environment. If you think of situations where a child has had to give up his biological mother for one reason or another, then adoptive mothers are priceless substitutes for a biological mother, and the law treats them like a mother. On the other hand,now that the citizens’ initiative, entitled ‘Motherhood Act’,is being discussed,it is hardly surprising thatthere is no mention of any adoption parent or adoption mother in many of these articles. Then there's another thing I'd like to say. I think Mr Biaudet has also left. As he said, adoption processes can be very long and difficult and burdensome, and this is precisely the case when it comes to international adoption. Adoptions within the family of a secondary family can also take time, as interviews and meetings are conducted with both mother and father as well as children. It might take some time. But, as I said in my first speech, the adoption within the family of female couples is very quick and simple, assuming, of course, that nothing suspicious emerges from the situation of either woman. If everything is normal, so to speak, female couples can contact the social services by telephone even before childbirth, they will receive a designated social worker, and then, when the birth has taken place, even though the maternity services call the social services, and if the authority has said that they do not have a queue in these matters, they will receive a reception time there very soon. So they have one full visit to social services with pre-filled forms. They sign pre-filled forms and send them to a district court where internal adoption is confirmed in about two weeks. There are usually two visits to other parts of Finland — as I was told — but one visit to Helsinki. And now I would like to say: I do not know whether we are reading the same maternity bill, but have you thought that through such an internal adoption method, one parent can possibly be strengthened even more quickly than under the proposal for a maternity law now before us? I would like to draw your attention now, before I continue my unfinished speech, to this: it has been said here many times that, according to this citizens' initiative, the maternity bill, the child would have two legal parents from birth — but this is not true. According to this proposal for a maternity law, even before birth, although a second woman who has been involved in and gave the green light to fertility care even in the early stages of pregnancy, can be recognised as a second mother, but the confirmation of maternity is done in the same way as in the paternity law and, in accordance with the paternity law, the maternity law also has 30 days after birth, when it is possible to withdraw the recognition of maternity. Just as in the paternity law, in this maternity law, the confirmation of maternity, which takes place at the Local Register Office, does not start until 30 days after the birth, when the child supervisor sends these confirmation requests to the Local Register Office, and there will be confirmation when he arrives. In fact, compared to the rapid adoption of the family — as I was told, at least here at the end of Helsinki, and there are no major delays anywhere else in Finland — this maternity law now under discussion can delay and weaken the situation of many families. But then, Mr President, I would like to continue my speech. I made my first speech at the beginning of the debate. This is about changing the concept of maternity so that maternity can be obtained by means of a notification or recognition procedure, and this proposal for a maternity law contains a great many, many points on the clarification, recognition and withdrawal of maternity, i.e. the motherhood of another woman. The action may be brought against the motherhood, the child giving birth and the child itself. The child overseer is also under an obligation to prosecute another woman if she does not acknowledge motherhood. Furthermore, this proposal states that if there are several potential mothers, they should be sued for the same trial. Sometimes infertility treatments really last for a very long time, many years — abortions and abortions and so on — and if more women involved in these infertility treatments consider themselves to be a non-biological mother within the meaning of the law, what is the practical basis for resolving the matter? This proposal does not provide clear grounds for resolving this issue. It's no wonder. The Bar Association expressed its concern about the complexity of matters. This is not the case in the paternity law, where, on the basis of the paternity test, it is clear who is the biological father. The law must always be clear and understandable and also work in practice. From this point of view, it is important that the use of the word "mother" is kept in law by the woman who gave birth to the child. For example, in health care, it is essential to know who is a genetic mother. Another woman has a different name in other Nordic countries and, for example, in Germany, and has also been taken into account in expert opinions on the basis of a different name. According to this proposal, both would be appointed as mothers. I don't understand. This is certainly not in anyone's interest. There should also be a clear understanding of one mother and one father at the level of the law, and although motherhood is also about adoption motherhood and other psychological and social ties, just as the debate has revealed, the role of biological bond as part of motherhood should not be undermined by legislation. Then it is very confusing — and this has been the most startling paragraph for me — to read the limitation of the right of action in Article 36 of the motion. On the other hand, there is an obligation on the parties to speak the truth and, in principle, Article 1 The proposal, with the exception of 1, refers to pregnancies born with fertility treatment. According to Article 3, the confirmation of maternity infertility treatment on the basis of consent cannot be confirmed if paternity is possible under the paternity law. Is that not Article 36, the limitation clause of the right of action, contradicting and repealing all of these? The article describes the situation in which a mother who has acknowledged her motherhood has learned of facts that have led to the suspicion that the child was not born from fertility treatments — that is, there is a physical, biological father — but the other mother has nevertheless declared in writing that the child is hers after giving birth. Is this not contrary to the obligation to remain in the truth? Similarly, the mother who gave birth can accept this notification in writing. Is this not also contrary to the obligation to remain directly in the truth? Is it not remarkable that, in these very situations and for these situations, the only limitation of the right of action has been included in the motion? In other words, even if the mother who gave birth and the mother who acknowledged her motherhood would like to correct the mistake and correct the situation and enable the paternity of the biological father to be confirmed, they do not have the right to bring an action to remedy the situation. I believe that this is incomprehensible to the abolition of the possibility of strengthening paternity. Another example of a lack of law is the regulation on the identification of a decision taken in a foreign country. In some countries it is allowed to give birth, but in Finland it is prohibited by law. The purpose of the provision is to prevent circumvention of the regulation of the surrogate birth regime, i.e., the acquisition of a child abroad by means of surrogate birth arrangements and then the recognition of maternity in Finland. The aim is to prevent this regulation by requiring a year’s residence in that country. If we consider the planning of surrogate labor, the initiation of pregnancy and the nine - month pregnancy period, the one - year requirement to prevent circumvention is far too short. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u97	Mr President! On this subject, we have had a debate here on several occasions. After all, there is a different way of thinking in relation to the rights of sexual minorities at the heart of this debate, which is what all this is about. We have people here who believe that the status of sexual minorities should be improved and that they should be placed on an equal footing with all the rest of us in legislation, and then there are representatives here who disagree with this. This has come to light in all these debates that have taken place here, no matter what. And when this debate is followed in this regard, I do not find any surprises about the speeches that have been made here. The main thing, however, is that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has done an excellent job on this issue, has produced a very strong and very comprehensive report, on the basis of which it is good to move forward and to bring this legislation into force, and hence specifically to improve the position of children and, on the other hand, to facilitate the issues that currently arise, for example, in relation to the relationship between two women and the way in which a child born in that relationship will then be a child of both. This is in the interests of these families. Perhaps, at the same time, it is good to recognise that it is quite symbolic that this is only another piece of legislation adopted on the basis of the citizens' initiative – and hopefully it will go through. The first was equal marriage law, this comes next. And both these questions were something that our traditional party-political machinery was unable to resolve and the governments, on their own watch, were unable to bring here as government proposals. It is good that both these things have now come through the citizens' initiative, but this makes one wonder whether it would have been easier to deal with this tradition at a much earlier stage in order to bring this forward and really be in the interests of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u98	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be said here to Mr Tanus, with whom we have worked very well together in many joint seminars and have shared many common ideas, today that we disagree quite a bit with this maternity law and its importance and importance from the perspective of the child's right. Mr Modig did indeed leave, but in my opinion he did not say in any way that the Christian Democrats had oppressed him in any way, but pointed out what kind of comments and speeches were used, for example, when we were discussing the equal marriage law and the authentic marriage law. Unfortunately, at times, these speeches, perhaps because of their feelings, have gone to the point where we have not remembered that human rights and human dignity should always and everywhere be respected in our speeches as well. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights dealt with this maternity law very carefully and thoroughly. We heard a number of experts and studied the statements. This law does not change the current practice, the facts, but enables a child who has been conceived with sperm from an unknown donor to be confirmed even before his birth by two legal, legal mothers. But if the sperm donor is known, he is a known person, then this law cannot be used. So then these two mothers cannot be confirmed to the child. Then we'll confirm... [Interjection] Today, in this Chamber, we have talked about all the most important things. We have talked about human rights, we have talked about the rights of our children, and I think that we all agree in this Chamber that guaranteeing a good childhood for all children is one of the cornerstones of our policy, I do not doubt it at all. A good childhood cannot happen unless we take care of the equality of children. We legislators must ensure that equal rights are guaranteed for all children regardless of the family form and the rest of the family situation. Protective family relationships are essential to the well-being of people, both as a child and as an adult. The adoption of the maternity law is an important issue for the realisation of children’s rights in Finland. It brings more equality to children, and it also brings security. The children of female couples have two legal parents when they are born. This ensures the status of the child compared to the current situation, especially in situations where the relationship is dissolved or the mother dies at birth. All large associations of children and the Ombudsman for Children see that the adoption of the maternity law improves the status and legal security of the child. At birth, children of female couples are entitled to a two-parent living and inheritance. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been in force in Finland since 1991. The agreement is based on the fact that the relationship between the child and the parent is an important breeding ground. The agreement does not take a stand on maternity or fatherhood. The Ombudsman has stated in his opinion that legislation should aim to ensure that the child’s conditions, including parental issues, are as stable as possible. And that is precisely what the adoption of the maternity law aims to do: to secure a stable breeding ground for the child. Mr President! It really saddens me that the maternity law is being opposed by reference to the Constitution. What message do we send to the children of female couples — that they and their parents are against the Constitution? This message runs counter to children's rights. It does not contribute to the well-being of families; it is cruel and pointless. Mr President! The maternity law is an important step in recognising the different situations of families and improving the rights of children in diverse families. The Child Ombudsman has today given Parliament its first report on child policy. It also discusses how legislation and social policy are based on a narrow family concept. We in this Chamber are now in a position to amend the legislation so that we can better respond to the actual situations of families. I am proud to take this step. The report by the Ombudsman for Children also states very well that a society that is not based on a strong stream of everyday care and care is impossible. And that is what the maternity law is all about, making possible this everyday care that is important to good childhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u99	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for a good report. This citizens' initiative has not only the broad support of the public but also the support of organisations. And it is a good thing that this is finally at this stage, although of course the waiting time is long. In my view, adoption within the family is no longer appropriate in this situation, where it can be better dealt with, as this report has now moved the matter forward. I think it is important that the law provides legal protection not only for the child who is born but also for the mother who is not born. For me, however, the best interests of the child are at the top of the list. And the fact that this matter is now moving forward also shows our approval of the various legal families. There was a speech here saying that injustice and cunning are taking the matter forward. The way I see it is that legislation is built slowly and piecemeal. Of course, it would have been good if these things had come together as a whole, but this is a good thing that it is now moving forward. And I don't see anyone restricting their opinions, either. We all have our own opinions, and by voting we will now resolve this issue. I hope that the law will come into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u100	Mr President! A number of speeches have been made here today that this maternity law is the most excellent and important legislative instrument for increasing the equality and human rights of certain groups of people. These ‘equality’, ‘non-discrimination’,‘equality’,‘human rights’and ‘mothererminology’arepresentat the time when legislativeinitiatives areinvolved to go in a completely opposite This same argument was used in the context of the debate on the so-called equal marriage law, and it will certainly then be heard in the context of the euthanasia law, which is also a citizens' initiative, and in the future it will certainly also come before us. These are all predictable, but that future will, of course, bring many other proposals to this Chamber. There will certainly be a discussion here in the future about how many parents in the family really can be. If you can have two mothers as real parents, then surely the next move will be to have two fathers in the future. It is also possible then to have this debate on two fathers, two mothers, which is taking place in other European countries as well as legislation, so it will come here in due course. I find this legislative development in the West so regrettable that I am terrified of what this future will be for the children who will in the future have some kind of understanding of the family. But, Mr President, this practice of citizens' initiatives gives me some thought, so how has it happened that laws which the government has not even thought about bringing into the law in its government programmes or negotiations then come in through the kitchen door? In my own eyes, the appreciation of this citizens' initiative has fallen quite close to zero. I would understand the importance of the citizens' initiative if it were really the will of the citizens, the majority of the citizens. It is not the will of the majority of citizens that a number of organisations are working together to promote their own ideology up to the law and here to the decision-making process. Until now, these citizens' initiatives have brought nothing but initiatives that the government or parliament would not have accepted. I don't think that's democracy. Democracy is the fact that representatives of the people have been elected here by the voices of the people, and in the negotiations on the basis of their power relations, they end up in a programme and are adhered to. Next, the government will see these employment issues discussed through the citizens' initiative, which will also be put to the vote. Mr President! The main problem with this maternity bill and its handling is that we do not want to recognise what is really at stake here. In reality, it is a question of determining what it will be in the future. Until now, we have understood that the mother is the mother who gave birth to the child or the foster mother who is named the mother who, for example, becomes the parent and parent of the child through adoption. Now this definition goes so far as to become a mother by giving notice of it in advance. The notifier does not even have to be of legal age. She can only report that the female couple may agree that you are this other mother and this mother or genetic mother through artificial insemination is the other. I don't think there's any way to get a mother through the notification procedure. It's not right. It is not right for the child and it is not right for anyone else in this society. Secondly, the biggest problem is certainly — if the eyes of the child are seen — that if the mother can also be designated as a person who is in practice a man, how should such a concept be strengthened through legislation in this society? Does anyone, in the opinion of your left-wing groups, not think that this is going too far that the concepts go so far as to make it possible to become a mother through a notification procedure which can then be cancelled later, if we reach that conclusion within 30 days, and this other mother can also be a man? In my opinion, this is neither balanced nor healthy legislation in any way. Mr President! It has been suggested here — as always, if you are not prepared to accept something like this madness, which even though through the citizens' initiative comes into this hall — that you have to consider the message we send to some minority groups. There's no message here. No one's ever been there to give a message. No one here has overlooked the parenting of female couples or the parenting of sexual minorities or single parenting or the parenting of adoptive families. That's not what this means. No one here has suggested that they should be considered inferior. The question is precisely what is our basic basis: is this the basic concept of a mother and a father that exists now, thousands of years ago, and that there are children around, and although there are other families, what is the basic starting point? Society should protect the family because it is the core of society. If we crush the heart of society, the whole society will crumble over time. This gate theory isn't from the wind. This has been discussed before, and it has worked. Before, history has shown that when legislators enter into various concessions no one knows what it is in the long run. Mr President! This development aspect needs to be highlighted: For example, the Children’s World magazine, published by the Federation of Child Welfare, has a good article that the future of motherhood can be something other than what it is now. Here we take the view that the transfer of the uterus to a man and the pregnancy of a man are already technically possible. This article speaks of a Swedish hysterectomy pioneer such as Mats Brännström. He talks about the possibility that it is already possible to transfer the uterus to a man and a man can give birth. And now, in a way, this magazine also comes to the attention of all decision-makers, that we need to discuss what it will be like in the future. Since all people have a great need to use different means of getting older and motherhood and fatherhood and parenthood are considered important, in the future we should discuss how far we go here. I am absolutely convinced that it will not take very many years for these issues to be dealt with here too, if necessary. If legislation in any way slows down a man’s becoming a mother also through childbirth, it will certainly come here either through the citizens’ initiative or as an initiative brought together by some other Members of Parliament. And then there will be the same arguments: no one must be in a position of inequality before the law. Do you, my friends, understand where this society is going? I do not think that such a development is desirable, because this is certainly no longer a matter of the child's interest. A product has been made of a child that must be made available to everyone who wants it in one way or another, and I do not think that such a development is desirable. Mr President! I hope that this maternity law will not succeed in the vote next week, which is likely to be next week, because we will be able to secure the parental status of female couples in a way other than the declaration of two mothers. We can strengthen that parenthood in another way, including through paternity law or the addition of other articles. In that sense, I would support this approach, because otherwise we will be the first country in the world to have its own maternity law in law that a child can have two legal mothers but no father even in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u101	Mr President! After all, this package of maternity laws is very, very complex in substance. It contains weaknesses. I myself think that when I look at and read this through — I do not know how many times and over how many months — I am looking at it and reading it and evaluating it as a professional. It is my professional background that I have actually worked with women throughout my professional career, there are all kinds of orientations, all kinds of couples, and there is also work at the infertility clinic. In itself, no matter what the substance of the matter, this is very complicated, difficult to understand, references to one direction and another — one example, for example, in this Chamber, has been repeated many times that, with this presentation, two legal parents would be born immediately. That is not true, but it is done in the same way as in the paternity law: the local register office confirms the motherhood, and the child supervisor sends the documents to the local register office for confirmation 30 days after the birth, after which the date of cancellation has passed. A few more examples, although I have mentioned them before, of these weaknesses: For example, no minimum age has been set for this other mother who goes along with another woman for infertility treatment. She may be a minor, even though she is a teenager and a young girl who is experimenting with all kinds of things during her puberty. Many, many other flaws there are. In that sense, as the Bar Association has seen, such a separate complicated maternity law would not have had to be laid down, but the necessary changes could have been made to the laws already in force and in place, and it would have been much simpler and clearer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u102	Mr President! I have to make a comment after that speech by Niko. We are probably the lucky ones who have had children through the natural way, and we love them, and surely we always wonder how our decisions will affect the future and the children. I therefore believe that all of us in this Chamber are always thinking about the future. But I am sure we have also met those who cannot have their own children for one reason or another, and I think that this debate has gone a little off the rails and a little off the rails, that here we are going to judge those families who have adopted children and placed children, they have been insemination, and that is the way of the child, because that is what this is all about. And now only this process is being clarified, bureaucracy is being reduced and the two legal parents given to the child even before the birth of the child are given the opportunity. Of course, as Mr Tanus said, it will never be taken for granted, but it will now be given the opportunity as legislators and thus the equality between children and families will be improved. And I don't think you can resist it. It seems to me that if we start talking about a uterine transplant to men or anything else — this maternity law has nothing to do with things of this kind — we should stick to it in the law itself, in its content, in the matter. Of course, it is important to raise questions, critical points, to raise and debate, but not to enlarge or bring into that debate something that is not at all true. At least this is how I see it: when it comes to artificial insemination, the donor is unknown, the paternity cannot be confirmed and the female couple cannot be confirmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u103	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Niikko wondered about the citizens' initiative and how it can be seen. I myself have wondered whether the current number of signatories is correct. In my own reflections I have come to the point that it is a little too low. It seems that the initiative, which is strongly supported by the media, is moving forward and that much good will then not receive such attention and will then slowly be buried there. I myself am encouraging civic activity in the form and in the form of these initiatives, but this Chamber should then consider whether it is appropriate at this time, for example the number of signatories.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u104	Mr President! Only enough for Congressman Hännis to define two legal parents for a child without this maternity law. It has not at present excluded in any way the rights of parents who come through artificial insemination. There have also been conflicting opinions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. For example, this In a written procedure, the Children’s Fundamental Rights Association has given a reply that, in their view, this legislation is not necessarily the best possible for children’s rights. Then there is also reference to exceptional situations: the child’s biological mother dies and the child is left without a guardian. This has been referred to in this discussion of the maternity law that comes in this kind of exceptional situation, which is very rare in Finland. In reality, the child is not left without a guardian; in these situations, the child is naturally presented with a suitable person. This was mentioned in the opinions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that the biological mother of a child can also do a so-called custody test if she wishes to make her own wishes as to who will raise and care for her child, and then it is up to the authorities to find out if the person is fit to be the child's guardian. However, this current system has been a good one, because now that we have had this adoption process and this joint custody process, it has established the suitability for parenthood. And it is not a lack of confidence against the future parent and the parent, but it has previously been considered to be a good practice in the best interests of the child, and now this legislation is giving up this procedure. Secondly, they are not intimidations or impressions that this law in some way would be bad if we talk about the mother’s gender, for example. Since that sex has no longer been defined through this legislation then,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u105	Now I would ask the representative to move on to the podium if he wishes to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u106	Mr President! I would like to raise one more point. There has also been a lot of talk here about equality and equal treatment between different families and family forms, but there have been no speeches here, if we think about children, how equal the children of different families are. If we think about growing up with our own biological parents or growing up alone with the mother or with the father or in the families of the female couples, we actually have children in a very unequal position. Mr Tolvanen has unfortunately just left the Chamber, but I was actually surprised when this legislative package contains so many weaknesses and complexities, no matter what the substance of the matter, that the Committee on Legal Affairs has not stopped to consider possible revisions. For example, if we are thinking of female couples, it is in principle, even though the title is ‘Motherhood Act’,this 99% of which deals with female couples and with reproductive care,initiating pregnancy,that is,it is actually a very narrow concept of motherhood. For example, in a situation where a mother who gave birth to a mother andrecognized as a second mother would I believe that the law should be more enabling and guiding rather than excluding. In that sense, there are weaknesses, and I would therefore like to see a better and clearer, simpler set of laws being prepared if this is taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u107	Mr President! I have to ask whether you, Mr Tanus, want a child to have more than two parents. If this is to be done, I think it may require a wider debate. The Committee on Legal Affairs examined the opinion of a wide range of families, Article 16 and Article 2 which, in a certain way, could have allowed such a situation, or at least allowed a female couple to choose whether to confirm two mothers to the child or a father. But when this maternity law of ours is based on the fact that motherhood, two mothers, can only be confirmed if paternity cannot be confirmed under any circumstances, i.e. an unknown sperm donor, it cannot be confirmed later. If this person has not provided his own contact details, he has not given his name, how could his father be proved after 18 years? I think this debate has gone a little off the rails right now. I agree with Mr Tanus that perhaps it would be useful to clarify, and we, as a committee with the exception of one objection, have recorded in the report that it will come during the next term of government and then to find out exactly what you referred to, the right to use known germ cells, which are known as the father of the child, and the freedom of choice, whether it will be confirmed by the two mothers or by the mother and the father. In my opinion, this is a very serious and good opening-up to the debate, but in this maternity law we did not take it to the level of the section, because we believe that this requires a new impact assessment, a review of the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-21-ps-10.u108	Mr President! To Mr Hänninen, to clarify: I really didn't mean that there were more than two parents. I am very strongly of the opinion that there should be two parents. However, I referred to paragraph 36, which specifically refers to the situation in which a person who has recognised his motherhood has become aware of things that have pointed out that the pregnancy of another woman has not begun within the meaning of the law or under the conditions required by the law, that is to say, the pregnancy has not begun with fertility treatments, but even though he has known this, he can sign a written confirmation and, despite these factors, admit that the child is his. As I pointed out in my speech, I think that in principle the situation here is that it is not true. Similarly, if the mother who gave birth accepts in writing this other mother's written confession, in such cases, even if both sides of this female couple later would like to correct the situation, correct it, this limitation of the right of action makes it impossible to bring an action and legally correct this — for example, when known as this child's biological father and they both would like and also this biological father would like to remedy the situation in the best interests of the child, for example, if there comes a divorce, or whatever goes on now, and that would be the will of all parties. In that sense I wondered that this is the only such limitation of the right of action, when otherwise here are listed in very many paragraphs that can be brought in such, such and such situations. Just when it would be good for the child and the biological father of that child and both women would be willing to do so,
