ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u1	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2018 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Treaty and the Protocol and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 6/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u6	Madam President! The report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Report of the Library of Parliament for 2017 is therefore under discussion. As chairman of the board of the Library of Parliament, I am answering these questions or comments on what has arisen here. First of all, let us review why we have a library in Parliament: it acts as a central library in terms of legal information, social information and parliamentary information in Finland, and it has a long tradition, and it is quite exceptional in international terms. The Library of Parliament contributes to freedom of expression and transparency and helps Parliament, ministries and officials to carry out their work in the tasks they have to perform. According to the report, the library has managed its tasks quite satisfactorily, or, in fact, laudably, and it also draws attention to, among other things, customer satisfaction. It is monitored by customer satisfaction surveys every two years. That's a grade of nine. That's an A. The number of visitors to the parliamentary library, as well as the number of visitors to other central libraries and even ordinary libraries, has been somewhat trendy. It is partly due, or quite far so, to the fact that digitalisation changes usage patterns, and there is nothing wrong with that in itself, but, of course, it places demands on libraries on how to develop library activities. Of course we have to respond to digitalisation. When time changes, libraries have to change with it, and this has also happened in the Library of Parliament. In fact, there is currently a recruitment process in which an expert is sought to develop the library’s digital services, and there has been a large number of applicants, as is usually the case with the library’s recruitments. It tells us that the Library of Parliament is appreciated. The report also takes into account the near-by Central Library, with which there will certainly be cooperation. It will become a kind of flagship for the Finnish Library Institute. This institution has also made its own financial contribution — the Central Library costs about EUR 100 million. Library staff are trained and committed, and the library has done its job as it should. As a new point — which is not included in this report — I would like to point out that the Board of Directors of the Library has been thinking at its meetings in the spring and now in the autumn about the fact that the Board of the Library not only evaluates the development of the library, but also evaluates its own activities. In other words, the board of the library should do a little like self-assessment: assess the activities of the board, evaluate the activities of the chairman, evaluate the activities of the rapporteur, and, of course, each member of the board should do well in such an anonymous questionnaire, which is now being conducted on a web-based basis — which is being prepared — to assess its own activities, how it has performed its tasks, how it has committed itself and how it can develop its own work. And of course, every time you start evaluating, you set yourself up a little as on the line of fire and then you have to have the tournament resistance to accept it and change it in your actions if you need to. The idea of development that I would like to put before an authoritative institution is that we could also think about developing the functioning of Parliament in such a way that when we have this committee work here — and it is sometimes more pressurised in many committees, sometimes less pressurised — there are good practices in each committee and there are things that could be developed. I have had the honour of being in committees with a good atmosphere, ladies and gentlemen, and that is really great. But you can always develop something, and my idea is that at least once in the parliamentary term each committee, for example after two years, would do well to carry out this kind of self-assessment, where then they develop the items taken into account, and then it has two years to develop the activity if needs arise. It does not take much time, and now that in this library the government of this kind of base does, so this idea certainly gets to be exploited and those bases that are derived from it. With these words, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture and Education for the work they have done and for the report and ideas they have put forward in order to improve the work of the Parliamentary Library. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u7	Madam President! Representative Pauli Kiuru has done a good job in this post as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Library. I will start with this idea of self-assessment that he raised at the end. It is good that this type of self-assessment is being carried out in various institutions, and it might be appropriate to carry out such self-assessment in the work of our committee, for example, when listening to what has happened today. I myself have worked in municipal policy for more than half of my life, and it is very normal for such self-assessments to be carried out on the work of boards and municipal governments, and could in fact also be a good tool in the work of parliamentary committees to assess the activities of the chairmen and advisers, but also, above all, members and groups, through such self-assessment, which the library government is now launching. Mr President! Then there is the report itself: The Education Committee has been through the year 2017 and has produced a good, thorough report, and I welcome it. In due course, when I was a young representative of the Parliament, under the authority of the then president of the library, these interviews with veteran MPs were conducted. In time, in a similar debate here in Parliament, I raised the need to interview not only the parliamentarians who have abandoned the work of the MP, but also those who are more or less planned here by Johan Sirén, such as Mrs Kanerva and the Judgments and Mr Zyskowicz and a few others. It's a good thing they're being interviewed now. And if I have understood correctly, then Mrs Kanervan's 43 years of parliament have been such a task that not many others have been interviewed, and I understand that this interview work is still ongoing, so I do not know what decade has now been reached in Mr Kanerva's interviews. But it is a valuable research package, which will be available to researchers and certainly shed light on many questions. I hope that these interviews will continue — Mrs Kääriäinen, as one example or as one of the judgments I mentioned, or Mr Gustafsson, who has also done a long parliamentary work. Mr President! I would also like to thank the library for a very good service from the point of view of our parliamentarians. They've always been there for help when they needed help. And for many young people, I have advised that it is actually a library, where there are also many exam books. So all of you who are listening to this webcast now and need exam books: they are often found in the Library of Parliament when they are already reserved in other libraries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u8	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kiuru for his presentation as chairman of the board of the library, because indeed this week we discussed in the board of the library how to deal with this own-assessment issue. The self-assessment and the fact that we can make it go forward in the board of the library is a very good thing, but Mr Kiuru suggested that this same method of evaluation should begin to reflect on the rest of our parliamentary work. The first important thing, of course, is how to ensure that the anonymous thing is done, because we all try to be careful that our profile is not made public in these matters. If we really want to develop some activities, we should be able to discuss these issues openly within the group. As far as Parliament's library is concerned, it is far too little used in terms of how great a library it is. I do wish that each of us in the House would go to himself and start to wonder whether we have actually introduced the information we have there, whether we have encouraged our assistants to make use of it. Far too little is used in comparison with all the wonderful information available there. We should therefore think more about how we can improve and increase this use even better. When I was still in the right job in the municipality before coming here to Parliament, I got really good service here and was surprised that I got so much law-making material from the parliament. From the point of view of the future, I wonder that the voters themselves are assessing how we operate, but it would be very important to make progress on their own assessment in the work of the committee, as in the library. On the whole, from our Library of Parliament, I say that it is one of the most open and best libraries on the world stage. It is precisely anywhere else in the world that there is no library like the one we have in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u9	Madam President! I also agree with the view that the Library of Parliament is a very good library, and, of course, this is exactly what has become apparent here in the past that awareness of the Library of Parliament should certainly be increased in some way. I am not surprised — a good tip came from Mr Heinos there — that there may be some of those exam books here too, and that is important. For all this work, I will give you the encouragement of that library government, even in the face of this kind of promotion of a certain reputation. President! It is, in fact, a little tradition that whenever the Library of Parliament is in the debate, I have used the floor, and I would like to remind you in general of the great importance of the library for our country as a whole. Many people say that the stone feet on which our culture is based are a good primary school, the Yleisradio and the Library Institute, and so it is certain that many valuable results have come from our library system. That is why I would like to take the floor once again to value our library and to take good care of it — all libraries in different provinces. They are the cornerstones of an equal life. Today we talk a lot about how worrying it is when the literacy of Finns, such as children, has deteriorated. There are major challenges here that we can respond to through, among other things, the free library service. Then, of course, these new tasks of the library, such as promoting digital literacy and providing digital support for the digital age, will also make the library more important now and in the future as a whole. President! It was nice to hear that the grade is nine, and that is a positive and positive thing. All in all, in order to return to this whole library, I think it is important that in recent years we have managed, in agreement with the level of this issue of lending compensation, to the Nordic level, so that the valuable work of our authors can also be rewarded. Here you go, Speaker. Good luck to the Library of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u10	Madam President! According to the Library Act, public libraries are responsible for promoting equal opportunities for culture, literature and art, continuous development of knowledge, skills and civic capacity, internationalisation and lifelong learning. Mr President! That law is good and binding and, in fact, I am very pleased that there is also a library in Parliament. It is the fact that Members of Parliament are either in the Board of Directors of the Library or, above all, through the Parliament, have that library experience — and everyone in their own regions will certainly also give impetus to the development of the entire library activity. And as we all know, the Finnish library is unparalleled. Without costs, we will be able to borrow and receive a great deal of information that is needed, not only from that virtual world, but also through electronic access to information, which is also part of today's library. In that sense, this parliamentary library is certainly a good path for Parliament's appreciation of the library institution as a whole. I mean, there's a real cultural foundation for that today. If the forms change — how long will it take to get more paper in electronic form? — all of it, information is needed. And how that information is quickly obtained and can be used is one important thing. Yesterday, on the basis of Question Time, I received feedback that some people were rapping their phones or tablets here, so to speak. I replied to him that quite a few people were also getting information when there was a debate on a particular matter — wanting to check whether something was just like that and what law or issue could be referred to. In that sense, I always hope that viewers and listeners will also think that Parliament's plenary room is also a job in that sense, and, as many people do today, there is a place of work where things are done. And the service of the house has been improving all along, especially with this new, renovated — you can say new but renovated — Parliament House. Mr President! I would like to emphasise once again that this retention of public libraries today is one of the essential elements of national and national work and serves as a fundamental starting point for citizens' services. Yes, we want to take care of the Reading Centre, and it is a good thing that next year's budget, for example, we also have our own form of support for secondary book procurement, which will be there, and therefore we will also be able to move forward through that textbook. These are all connected — reading, writing, they are the basis of humanity and civilization.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u11	Madam President! First of all, thank Mr Kiuru for his comprehensive and enlightening presentation. I agree with what has been said about the need to increase awareness of Parliament's magnificent library. The future Central Library Oodi has been awaited in Helsinki for a long time. Representative Mr Kiuru also mentioned this possible future cooperation with the Central Library, and I am now taking the opportunity to ask whether there is any more detailed information on what kind of cooperation is planned, because the representatives of Helsinki, to which I myself belong, have already been asked whether there has been any thought about cooperation with the Library of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u12	Madam President! As the representatives of Viitanen and Rossi have said, the library has played an important role in promoting education in Finland, and so will the Library of Parliament. I remember when I was a kid when I went to Nilsia Savo — part of the current Kuopio — so almost every day after school I went to a library near the school and borrowed different material from there. I say that's one of the reasons I've finally ended up in this hall. In other words, the information was of interest, and the information is still of interest to us today, and that is what we need to be able to share with the public through the library. But I would like to raise one unconventional point here when we consider the premises of our Library of Parliament. Well, they're significant, they're good facilities, but there's one thing I'm thinking about about when it comes to the facilities. I went to Congress in the United States, where it is well created that citizens or even foreign visitors can learn about their Congress and the history of American democracy. There's video shows, there's guidance, there's a certain kind of routine tour. I think that we should also work towards this in Parliament, taking into account the results of the Finland 100 centenary year, so that this kind of routine round or some kind of information package, which visitors, foreign or domestic, who come here would receive. And I must say that one of the facilities that could be used for such a purpose, if there is no new premises to build, is the existing premises of the Library of Parliament. In other words, I am raising the idea that we should take the lead in some parliaments in other countries, such as the United States Congress, and in our great things in Finland, such as civilisation and democracy — for example, as a country that gave women the right to vote among the first to vote — and this history, we would bring out to those guests who come to this house more systematically than at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u13	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kiuru for his commendable speech and his proposal for the development of activities, for which I really hope we will catch up. Similarly, Mr Elo: a very worthy proposal, very nice. I believe that this debate has been very commendable in that people really should be made aware of this access to the Library of Parliament. I myself have noticed that it comes as a surprise to many of my guests when I tell them that everyone has access to the wonderful services and material that exists there. In fact, I was able to borrow the entire material from our Library of Parliament for the 10 credits course in Finnish development history, which was part of Helsinki’s political candidate’s degree, and I have used the library’s services from time to time. Mr Heinonen mentioned these interviews. In my own thesis, I looked at what has been discussed on crisis management over time here in Parliament. Indeed, they are valuable material for all the interviews that have been done, even for future researchers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-28-ps-92.u14	Madam President! Thank you for these ideas of development. First of all, Mr Elo mentioned this idea of the US Congress and it is all right to do this kind of international benchmarking, a comparison. It's what library staff do and train. That was a good reference. You might want to learn. We Finns may be a little shy to present our own expertise and the things we have done well. We may take them for granted, or we may take them for granted as a bit of a bully to praise and show you the skills we have. But perhaps a little bolder must be taken the lead in that regard. Congressman Pelkonen asked about cooperation with Oodi. I can't go into the details. This has been emphasised in the Board of Directors of the Library, and it is being done as a civil servant all the time. After all, the library is just about to be completed, and we will probably get some detailed information about it, and cooperation will start.
