ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to ask questions to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. As on previous occasions, the focus is on opposition issues, and also on topical issues, and we are also trying to change these issues a little over the various Question Hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u2	The first question is asked by the Socialist Group in Parliament, Mr Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u3	Madam President! We spent the homeless night last night. It is very humble to think that today not all people have a roof over their heads. Even today many people spend many nights, all the nights of their lives, there in the campfire in the forest. There may be many reasons — the complexities of life along the way. Whatever the reason, we need help. In Finland, homelessness has been falling for a long time as a result of long cooperation, but last year there were 7,112 homeless people in Finland, so there is a lot of work to do. I ask you, Minister: Humanly, one homeless person is too much. Is the government still prepared, this autumn, to take further action in this budget to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u4	Mr President! The issue of homelessness is a painful issue in Finland, and just as the questioner well said, we have had long-term work done here by one government after another for a long time. In fact, the key thing was to introduce such a housing first model, where people are not subject to pre-conditions to get a dwelling, but to the housing first and then to the other possible social services. Well, what's new in the last few years? For example, such housing advice has produced good results. In fact, it has prevented several thousand evictions in the course of this year and the last year. On the question of next year's budget: in the spending limits debate, the government set a target for halving homelessness, and an additional EUR 5 million was already set aside for next year, specifically targeting the purchase of housing for homeless people who are already able to live independently, as it were by means of temporary rental.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u6	Mr President! A lot has been done, and that is a good thing. Nevertheless, we are in a situation where today, for example, the number of young homeless people has turned to growth. Similarly, housing costs are still rising. President! The Parliamentary Audit Committee dealt with homelessness and housing issues in its report a week ago. One major problem was that we simply have far too few affordable homes and housing is far too expensive, for example in Helsinki, Tampere, in many growth centres. Many people with low incomes are forced to find at Tammelantori, Tampere, that there is a bigger gap in the money bag after housing costs. One simple solution, both to combating homelessness and to the cost of living, is that we have enough affordable homes. So I ask, Minister, once again: while this is the case, could you think that we are going to have big measures and rapid solutions and that this autumn, this parliamentary term, this budget would increase the number of measures, for example, to improve housing subsidies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u7	Mr President! Still good, timely questions. Although it has been possible to drop the amount of homelessness in Finland as a whole and get help at the very core, in particular long-term homelessness, despite the fact that thousands of homes can be arranged for those who do not have it, there is always the risk that there will be new homeless people at the other end, especially young people who, when they go to a study place, may not find it, but will be in the corner of friends and acquaintances in a tight place. The government shares that idea of increasing production. In fact, the key objectives of the period are to increase housing construction, which has been very successful, and also this volume of affordable production, which has been achieved in this parliamentary term to raise a few thousand dwellings higher than in the past. Next year, government-subsidised housing production has been rated at 9,000 dwellings. Capitalisation of A-Krunu is a very important activity and allows this state-owned company to double its own production of affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u8	Madam President! Unfortunately, the homelessness of too many people is due to low incomes and poverty. As a result, they have been evicted and have become homeless. Unfortunately, last-minute income support has not been able to help these people either. Minister, I would like to ask you: would the government now have any room for action to prevent incomes — low incomes, poverty — from increasing homelessness? For example, could the income support system be developed in such a way that if a person is homeless, he would genuinely be helped, thereby breaking the deep gap in homelessness?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u9	Mr President! In fact, we have to try to help a person before he is homeless, and I already referred to this housing counselling, which has prevented some 5,000 evictions in the last two years, and now as a new activity this year was launched as a pilot of this kind. In fact, when a person discovers, no matter what the matter is, that the income of the tenants is not enough and he wants to resort to quick levers or otherwise he cannot cope with the bills, a better way than to go out and get those quick levers is to contact this financial advice from the tenants, which is able to see how to take control of the economy before we are in the process of taking out the money and being in the yard of the apartment. This preventive grip is really important. In addition, for those who have suffered from homelessness, these government measures must be targeted in order to find new housing for them as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u10	Mr President! Indeed, good work has been done in Finland to prevent homelessness. We have succeeded well in many things, but, as has already been said here, there are groups where homelessness has grown. These include young people under the age of 25, who account for 22 per cent of the homeless, and 20 per cent of the long-term homeless in this group. The second group is people with an immigrant background. I am thinking here of the fact that, in particular, we should now be able to direct these preventive social measures here, if we think that these groups are going to be excluded, which is very possible in a situation where there is no basic issue, such as housing. How, then, do we react to this now, because these figures are true and exist at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u11	Mr President! This is a specific example for young people, and it is indeed my area of activity, and I am responding to it. This is a very important issue because, in practice, the accumulation of many problems and the absence of false services, or even the total exclusion from their services, will certainly often lead to the exclusion of young people as well as therefore to homelessness. During this parliamentary term, a major step forward has been made in this regard, namely that it is as easy as possible for young people to find the services that are right for them individually. This Ohjaamo service network has been set up. So the cockpit is basically this kind of low threshold service point, where then you can meet a young person individually and guide him forward to the services he specifically needs. Indeed, action has already been taken in this regard. There are more than 50 of these on a national scale and they will be consolidated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u12	Mr President! Last night and at night, the Finns of Finland also landed in the night of the Homeless to listen to the citizens, and the message was that although there are about 7,000 homeless people, many are on their way to homelessness. 800,000 of our citizens receive housing allowance. There are young people there, there are especially low-income pensioners there, bread lines are growing. I ask, government, you: how do you prevent future homeless people from being born and remove these 7,000 homeless from the list, that everyone has a home and a place of safety, a place where to live?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u13	Minister Saarikko this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u14	Mr President! Several representatives of the Government can respond to this broad and important issue of social policy, and it is good in that homelessness affects more than one administrative sector. At the same time, it is also a related challenge. It is difficult to answer one specific question here, which would ensure that homelessness in Finland would end. At the same time, we can review one Finnish political success story over several parliamentary periods. The figure is such that the Finnish strong housing principle first will also be seen internationally. As far as people are concerned, about the estimated 7,000 or so homeless, we do not have a phenomenon in which all those people would necessarily be on the street, but it is perhaps such a matter of seeking occasional accommodation for friends, friends, and therefore an important principle, home first, belongs to them too. Support for such situations is provided by the housing allowance system, the income support system and basic income through either a guarantee pension or, for example, labour market support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u15	Madam President! Housing is a human right, and the goal in Finland must be to eliminate homelessness completely, not just to halve it. In addition to the 7000 homeless persons in the statistics, there are still plenty of people who stay with their acquaintances and relatives but never become homeless. I find it particularly worrying the growing homelessness of young people, who account for a large proportion of this non-statistical cake. Homelessness for young people restricts self-determination, denies access to their own secure space, and building life and their own future is very demanding, even unreasonable. I ask the corresponding ministers whether, with your services, you have taken or are introducing specific measures to ensure that young people’s homelessness in Finland does not lead to growth but to a fall and that no young person is forced out of society because he or she is not able to get a dwelling or have come out of his or her apartment and cannot return.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u16	Mr President! Indeed, 7,000 homeless people are already a large number of these who live with acquaintances, relatives or friends, changing places, so it is not really a figure of people on the street. Fortunately, this is the situation, which means that this total, long-term homelessness has been pushed down. Specific measures to facilitate the position of young people: Of course, quite a large number of young people are studying, and increasing the production of student housing is certainly one way to make it possible for the largest number of students to find their own home, then in a student home, which can still produce housing at easier and cheaper prices than in other markets. But young people also need these forms of support, such as housing advice or financial support, because many times a young person has just become inexperienced in debt or vice-versa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u17	Mr President! In a country such as Finland, which is one of the richest and most successful in the world, there can be no goal other than to eliminate homelessness altogether. In particular, young people's increased homelessness is often caused by excessive rents in large cities, but also by rising unemployment and debt problems among young people. If the credit information has gone and there are several rental deposits, then it may be difficult to even get into the city’s rental housing. The Left Alliance has suggested that this principle of housing first be extended to the whole country and that the production of affordable rental housing is also significantly increased in large cities. In addition, we have proposed a housing guarantee model, which would mean that young people in particular will be guaranteed access to housing only a few months after the young person has become homeless — the idea, therefore, that the dwelling should not be a prize but a human right for everyone. I would now like to ask Mr Tiilikainen: are you prepared to look into such a housing guarantee model in addition to these other measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u18	Mr President! We know and know the situation that this housing first principle works in Finland, and everyone thinks it is good, so we do not impose conditions on people, but we try to provide it. You mentioned these too high prices. I'm sure we're all worried about that. Fortunately, employment is improving all the time, which means that unemployment is a smaller cause of homelessness. Similarly, in these situations you mention that you will not receive the property insurance or home insurance if the credit information is not in order, we have developed products in which the landlord can obtain the insurance. And it is precisely these kind of temporary rental models that someone, for example someone from the foundation, takes from the landlord as if it's a risk away and then pass on housing to the homeless. Whether there's a guarantee and a time limit for this, there's no doubt we need to find out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u19	Irade the Talman! Homelessness is prevented, on the one hand, by increasing social services at a low threshold but, on the other hand, by increasing the supply of housing. We have tens of thousands of empty apartments in our country at this time, and there are about 27,000 in Helsinki alone. Yesterday, Minister Tiilikainen, on the same occasion, on the Homeless Night Panel, you pointed out this particular rental activity, i.e. that the municipalities rent empty apartments and then rent them to those who need them. How would this good idea become more common? How can the municipalities be involved in this activity? Will it simply require a change of will, legislation or that insurance companies take a catch on this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u20	Mr President! The questioner knows it well. It's a good thing you don't give me the answers when you ask — great. All these measures, which you mentioned, are needed. Indeed, considering that there are tens of thousands of vacant dwellings and, on the other hand, homeless, why are those dwellings empty? Many times it may be that the owner of the dwelling is not afraid to let his dwelling be rented or that the emptiness is short enough to let it not for this time. There is also a need for more of these apartments in the housing market, which are temporarily empty, and that aspect must be encouraged. And it is this thinking that, for example, municipalities can be the tenants who then assume the responsibility and risk that the dwelling will remain in order if it is shown for use by the homeless, is a good way, and of course the municipalities can make decisions about it. This insurance case, which I have described, is also well received that the landlord can insure the dwelling in case of such a situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u21	Madam President! Young people and young adults who also need help in life - control are eligible for support housing. There may be an aftercare of child welfare, or through mental health, or through disability services. Today, however, we are short of resources when we talk about child welfare after-care. I would have asked the corresponding minister: how can it be ensured that when a young person, or at that point a child, reaches the age of 18, he or she will be admitted to child welfare after-care and will be offered not only housing but also the support services that he or she needs in order to get life control started? These investments would certainly be the ones that would come back most to society in the longer term and would help to prevent a young person’s life from becoming marginalized.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u22	Mr President! Thank you for the important question. I've given this subject a lot of thought. Above all, in social and health services, full age is a borderline that leads to, for example, special care for adults and, above all, the most vulnerable and vulnerable children become fully-fledged adults. Then, as it were, a strong right of self-determination, a desire and a right to decide on one's own life, crosses with the right to guarantee a safe path to adulthood. The articles on child welfare as such guarantee the right and obligation to continue foster care, after-care measures, and I encourage municipalities that always have a place to think about how to continue that commitment to a young person, because we know unfortunate examples that ten years of decent child welfare work is, as it were, a little wasted in a few months or two years, when there is no support for their own path of independence. In the articles of the legislation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u23	There were two other groups here with the main issue of homelessness, which is very timely this week — and always.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u24	Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u25	Mr President! The night of the homeless was last night, but for the homeless, that night is every night. Homelessness is a terrible problem, and it is not your choice. We need a number of different measures to eradicate homelessness, and one of the models on display is temporary rental. The Government will also add EUR 5 million per year to investment grants for special groups, which will be allocated to the purchase of semi-subsidised dwellings for homeless people and the replacement of primary shelters for homeless people. Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen has also drawn attention to the growing problem of over-indebtedness by bridging quick levers, improving advisory services and designing a positive credit register. However, payment disruptions are often the cause of the homelessness. What measures is Minister Tiilikainen taking to prevent homelessness from being caused by default marking?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u26	Mr President! It is good to go deeper into this problem of default. That's what I've been ignoring in a few answers. So the situation is that whether a person is young or a little older, if he has a default mark, he will not be able to obtain insurance for a rental dwelling. And if you can't get insurance, the landlord says there's no lease. In order to solve this problem, we started piloting a model in which the insurance company provides the insurance to the landlord who, as it were, assures it to come on behalf of the tenant of its home, and this has indeed received a good reception, and I understand that some insurance companies already offer such insurance. It will, however, help those who have lost credit information, especially young people, to obtain the right to that rental dwelling, if otherwise things are in order and they are able to take care of independent housing. This is an important step forward and I hope that this practice will spread and be better known.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u27	This was also the real question for the Blue Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u28	Congressman Elovaara, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u29	Mr President! This has been a comprehensive study of the underlying causes of homelessness. It sums up the most painful problems in our society: the problem of default marking, credit information, we need more debt counselling, on the other hand, we also see the fragmentation of services, and we have also talked about the situation of young people. I'm a little surprised that we teach a lot of things in schools, but in the end, life management and financial skills are a little short. Do you think there's anything we can develop here? On the other hand, we recognize that the homelessness is often crystallized by a human tragedy, such as divorce. Could we identify these people and contact them and also provide them with preventive support, so that no one gets left alone or gets into too difficult a situation where the home goes? Perhaps even a supporter model for living in a young, independent person could be needed. How does the government feel about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u30	Mr President! The questioner mentioned a number of important measures and, in fact, all these issues have shown that there are no simple pop forces for solving homelessness, but we need a very broad set of measures and a collection of measures and cooperation between the various actors. Indeed, considering when the risk of homelessness, the risk of a new person getting into that situation, is great, for example, you mentioned divorces, and becoming unemployed, moving to another place, going to study — in a situation like this in a life of transition, it may be that you slip and that temporary homelessness is only getting longer and longer. When identifying those risk areas in advance, it is precisely in these situations that preventive work in urban social measures should be targeted. Among other things, this kind of housing advice aims to get involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u31	Mr President! Relationship work and education generally protect people from the misfortune of life. Especially for men, marriage is a health - protecting issue. However, this is not the case for homeless people. THL followed the situation of the men who spent ten years in the dorm. Only 6 per cent lived independently after this period. 5 per cent were still homeless. Even more than half died during that time — more than half died during that time. These men are at more than five times the risk of death, particularly in men under 50 years of age. The risk of dying from diseases is more than threefold for homeless men. I would like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality: Gender is strongly reflected in the problem of homelessness. How might the health of homeless men be promoted?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u32	Mr President! A difficult and wide-ranging question because it is difficult to answer a single point, when there is a different type of story to tell about these statistics of about 7,000 people in each case. It is also true that the statistics and research you have told us about the fact that these life situations also lead to premature death and thus also to the average difference in life expectancy between men and women. But perhaps more relevant than statistics is what could be done as early as possible. Yes, at these questions we will inevitably be in our excellent maternity clinic system, our school health system, our basic services, where the threshold has to be low overall. My particular attention is focused on mental health and substance abuse services and their continuity and not excessive fragmentation. For example, the child - protection background raised here earlier on may well be a factor that goes through the journey of life, weakening matters and the situation in life. I promise to consider an even more reasoned answer to your very demanding question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u33	Madam President! Homelessness, of course, is difficult for all of us who have not experienced it. How great a feeling of lack of participation is it when there is no home of your own and the opportunity to become a part of society through it? But as far as homelessness is concerned, the essential thing is, of course, that there is a sufficient level of housing provision, and in recent years the so-called ARA production has pulled quite well, despite the high trend in construction. However, an important issue that also affects the availability of housing, especially here in growth areas, the capital region and other larger growth centres, is the availability and zoning of land. I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: what means could we have to develop planning and land policy in such a way that access to construction land would not be an obstacle to the construction of new dwellings, including affordable housing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u34	Mr President! This is a very important question because building housing is a long-term activity. There must be valid formulas for cities and municipalities to build and for the time to be completed. After all, the MAL agreements on land use, housing and transport, which, for example, are made by the state with the regions of Helsinki, Turku, Tampere and Oulu, agree on a certain amount of housing construction, the amount of planning for the needs of the coming years, and then conclude agreements on how much of the building stock is a so-called ARA production, affordable, affordable production. When we negotiated these details of the MAL agreement last time, we managed, for example, in this Helsinki region to move these goals upwards. The key to this was, of course, that we were able to make and finance the Raide-Joker solution on the state side, while the cities responded by raising their own goals. This cooperation between the state and cities is needed. The reform of the Land Use and Building Act will then be responsible for the speed of planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u35	And one more supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u36	Mr President! My speech also relates to the position of young people in foster care. It is reported that some of the homeless are young people who have just been in foster care. Some child welfare organisations recently suggested that the obligation for municipalities to provide aftercare for young people in foster care should be increased to 25 years. I would like to ask Minister Saarikko how he feels about this proposal. An even more radical proposal could be to raise the age limit for foster care slightly, but post-care is certainly the most important thing in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u37	Mr President! Thank you for the specific question. I welcome that. I have just been told by child welfare professionals in the way I have been responsible for the fact that, although there have been a lot of investments in the life of a child and young people who are struggling to grow up from a very broken background, including in euros, they may actually go to waste very quickly when life management, coping with the jungle of different authorities and bills, relationships, education, employment, not everything is as simple as it should be when it should be done alone. I therefore believe that the next development needs of the Child Welfare Act are very strongly linked to the recognition of the importance of aftercare. I'm putting in a lot of preparations for the Child Welfare Act. The law is now ten years old, and the time has come to evaluate it. One part of that is, above all, the interfaces between child protection and other services. In particular, we receive a lot of feedback from mental health services
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u38	Next question, Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u39	Mr President! You can read about the sexual abuse of children and young people almost daily in the media and the subsequent petty convictions. Something is wrong when even bad words give you harder sentences than touching a child. I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that prevention is a priority in the fight against child abuse. At present, however, the law prevents crime prevention. Employees with a short employment contract of less than three months shall not be asked for a criminal record extract. In the past, for example, Vantaa also checked the background of these alternates until she was rebuked by the Ombudsman of this house, Parliament, for illegal activities. To remedy this, a change in the law is needed, which has been taken up by the representative of the Finns Party. This is an important and urgent matter, because there are 500 replacements working at day-care centres in the capital region on a daily basis alone, not to mention, for example, children’s camps and clubs where thousands of volunteers work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u40	Mr President! That's a very legitimate question. In Finland, the criminal record extract is widely used in various educational institutions, care institutions and others where officials and other actors work with children. Surely our common view of the hall is that children must be protected from persons who have bad intentions in mind. That is why the criminal record is one of the key elements in being able to check people's background. But at the same time, much more is needed so that problems do not occur. Now, about how these short-term employment and official relations in summer camps and others could be made available, or otherwise better able to secure the person’s background, I have started work at the Ministry of Justice, and we are trying to do the work as quickly as possible so that some clarification, correction, can be obtained on the matter. There are certain criteria for taking a criminal record extract,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u41	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u42	Thank you to the Minister for that reply. It is good that action has been taken. However, I ask about the fact that online exploitation of children is becoming increasingly widespread and during the Finnish Government's responsibility, a project against child abuse was launched, but unfortunately, the centre, the coalition and the blues froze in 2017. In the same autumn, however, EUR 34.5 million was found in the programme to combat hate speech and extremism. Even if the police said that it had achieved significant results with new equipment and software, there was not even a couple of hundred thousand euros of further funding for the Nettipedophilia project. This was evident in the hearing with the Administrative and Security Section. Minister, are these children and young people of interest to the government, whose entire lives are broken because of such crimes? In next year's budget, are you going to correct police resources on this extremely important issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u43	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Mr Niiko, for taking up a very important issue. With regard to the police, a preventive work strategy is being developed, one of which is specifically focused on violence against close relationships and abuse and violence against children and young people in all the communities in which they operate. Unfortunately, there are situations of exploitation, including sexual abuse, in different situations, even in institutions that care for children, as has been mentioned here, but also in families where perhaps numerically, the biggest tragedy is in volume. We really need to be able to shift a couple of points more to prevention, violence in general or, for example, intervention in the internal tragedies of families, which has not been strong in our traditional culture. We need to be able to move forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u44	Mr President! The representative of the Finns Party, Niikko, raised a very important issue. For example, day-care centres will also have to hire short-term substitutes whose criminal background is therefore not the right of the employer to inspect, and this three-month rule, which restricts the investigation of the criminal background of the offence, has given rise to reasonable amazement and confusion among parents as to the minimum duration of the employment relationship. Mr Kurttila, also the Ombudsman for Children, considers the current state of the law to be quite problematic, and he has stated that it should be possible to demand an extract from job seekers who are already registered in replacement registers proactively. Mr President! A corrective legal amendment proposed by the True Finns would improve the safety of children, offer parents peace of mind and improve the situation of the employer. Minister of Justice, you mentioned that you had set up a working group to investigate the matter, but can you promise that its conclusions will lead to concrete action during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u45	Mr President! A number of projects have already been launched during this parliamentary term and the tools available to the legislator for child protection through various methods: criminal law will be tightened up on sexual abuse against children; there will be preventive programmes; and now this easier access to criminal records will also be clarified as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u48	Mr President! There is currently a provision in the Criminal Code to criminalise the planning of a crime against life and health. On the other hand, the planning of sexual abuse or gross sexual misconduct against a child has not been criminalised in the Criminal Code. This means that even if the police know that this is happening and, for example, if one person is selling a child and the other is buying, but if this purchase has not taken place and the act has not been done, then the one who would like to buy a child for sexual exploitation will be completely uncondemned. There has been no crime when there has been no action, but only a plan. Is this to be brought into criminal law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u49	Mr President! In Finland, the main rule is that trying to commit a crime is also punishable. If you try to commit serious crimes against children, companies are, in principle, punishable. Then where do you draw the line of thinking negative, preparing something in your head? This is very problematic in the rule of law. We have some pre-trial crimes, such as the preparation of terrorism or the issue of certain serious criminal offences. But where is the limit drawn that you have not actually taken steps from inside your head to commit a crime? What is a punishable act? The attempt at crime, that is to say, the concrete measures already taken in that direction, are punishable acts, but it must now also be pointed out that what form of thought crimes, for example, are being punishable. This is a question of the rule of law, above all, and we must be extremely vigilant here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u50	Madam President! This is a very important debate, but that is where Mr Mika Niikko made an unusually unsavory and outrageous claim that the government would not be interested in protecting children from such gross crimes. Surely all parties and groups in this Chamber want to protect the smallest and the weakest
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u53	Mr President! This parliamentary term now seeks to change the direction of Finnish penal policy by means of legislative proposals brought to Parliament during the autumn, so that the victim will play a more important role in the future, [Right: Good!—Finally!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u54	Two supplementary questions — Mr Laiho and Mr Niikko — and a joint answer. Then let's go to the next question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u55	Mr President! Protecting children from all violence should be a starting point, whether physical or sexual or mental. Children have the right to a safe environment both at home and in hobbies, at school and in different environments. It is difficult that, among other things, the Ombudsman has stated that under three months' employment should not even ask about this criminal background, which is extremely regrettable. I have put a written question on this issue last spring, and now, quite recently, I have also tabled a bill to correct this issue at the level of the law, and there was support for this across party lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u58	Madam President! When it is time to thank you, then I will thank you, and, Minister Häkkänen, you have done an excellent job in this area, and I respect it and the whole Parliament will respect it. It is not that I blame the government for the work that has not been done. But in fact — and it is good for the listeners to know that we have in Parliament such as the Finance Committee and there are sections under it, and I myself am the chairman of the Administrative and Security Division, where these matters and budgets are decided — in 2016 when the Finns of Peruvian origin are in the government, we added a few hundred thousand euros to the police in order to combat and investigate online pedophilia. High-speed procedures, precision measures. It came autumn 2017, and you know what happened before that. When I was doing the same thing and the police were doing the same thing — they wanted to continue this task, and they had the measures to be taken, how they automated and screened them online with the most dangerous criminal preventive work — what did the government do? With the determined leadership of the Blues, you wrecked and stopped that project and didn't give me a few bucks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u61	First to Häkkäinen and then to Mäkkänen. Short answers, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u62	Mr President! Indeed, all measures to protect children and young people from being victims of sexual crimes will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u66	Mr President! Online police activity has not been driven down, preventive work is being built up stronger, and in particular cooperation between authorities is being developed, which is also much needed here between child protection, various forms of social work, the police and schools. This has been taken forward in good cooperation with Ministers Saarikko and Grahn-Laasonen, for example, this autumn. As far as the fight against Internet pedophilia is concerned, I would also like to thank Parliament for raising an important issue, and we will also take this into account now in the forwarding of the police's preventive strategy and the resources needed to do so. I am sure that this subject is common to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u67	Next question, Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u68	Madam President! As far as today's theme is concerned, it is necessary to highlight the fact that there are nearly 400,000 people in Finland who have default marks, and they are the ones who are having difficulty getting housing on this previous and first question. They don't get the phone share for themselves or the phone in general. They are excluded from normal society. The parliament has collected across party boundaries, together, names for our bill, with 138 signatories, which means 17 times more than the number of signatures required in the citizens' bill. So, through us, over 800,000 Finns have wanted to seize this injustice, where the default marking follows the debtor who has settled his debts,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u69	Mr President! Indeed, in Finland, the debt problem is growing at the moment, and more and more people are facing other problems as a result of debt problems. Not necessarily getting phone access, not getting a job interview, not getting an apartment or losing them all at once in the worst case. In other words, the problems are quite complex, and we now need a broad range of measures, strengthening citizens' economic skills, both younger and older. This problem is not limited to young people. At the same time, more and more attention must also be paid to those involved in credit institutions in such a way that they act as a deterrent. You can't give me a winch in the future. To this end, a positive credit repository is needed, among other things. The default marking also plays an important role for creditors to prevent over-indebtedness. But in the event that the debts have been paid, this period will now have to be examined whether it is two years too long. I have already begun this examination, and this initiative will be dealt with seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u70	Mr President! I have taken a positive view of what Minister Häkkänen has done. But we really cannot be in a situation where, in general, the sentence has been served when the sentence has been served, this register, maintained by the banking system, retains people’s credit data and it is despoiling. The question is also that for entrepreneurs this is very fatal, for a small entrepreneur who would like to invest. His credit records are gone, and he cannot invest in a company that hires new employees. That is why I have to say that Mr Satonen has submitted an initiative signed by 121 Members of Parliament on the marketing ban on short-term visas, and when we have heard what has happened today, when the new Director of the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency has raised this issue, I would now like the Minister to be able to respond at the same time as Mr Satonen's proposed marketing ban.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u71	Mr President! I thank the representative for an extremely good question. — — — — The duration of the default marking will certainly now be examined on the basis of this initiative, and its preparation has in fact begun earlier. On the other hand, when an ordinary citizen seeks credit to buy a washing machine, to buy some everyday things, something greater than the normal flow of income is not enough, that lending must be possible, and to this end creditors need some information on the person’s old payment behaviour. The data in the register must be sufficiently comprehensive and long enough — for example, if every week you get into payment problems and pay them off and in the second week you will have to pay them off again — because the creditors need to know what kind of payment behaviour is in order to have the courage to give credit. In other words, this aspect also needs to be taken into account so as not to end up with a normal citizen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u72	Let us take just one supplementary question here, Mr Sarkkinen, and then let us go with the question-answer principle to the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u73	Mr President! Over-indebtedness and loss of credit data is a tragedy for the individual, but it is also a national economic problem, because over-indebtedness creates incentives traps and loss of credit data can deepen the spiral of exclusion. Of course, there are many factors behind over-indebtedness, such as incomelessness and poverty, problems in life management, bankruptcies, shortcomings in economic skills. The social cost of over-indebtedness is horrendous, but someone is making money with it. Companies offering various quick levers and consumer credit roll profits and, on the other hand, debt recovery companies benefit from people’s financial distress. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: how can we mitigate the shortcomings in debt recovery, as the debt recovery costs are often excessive in relation to the original debt capital?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u74	Mr President! The starting points for recovery and recovery companies are partly on that side of the TEM, but I can answer this whole in such a way that, in practice, the courts are already considering what measures are appropriate. The overall problem of debt is, above all, the challenge of prevention at the moment. For this reason, people must be able to provide preventive financial and debt advice and financial guidance, and there must be greater responsibility on the part of creditors to act responsibly. These are the very core elements. If a person has fallen into debt problems, we have already made significant resource contributions to increasing the advice of over-debted people, speeding up enforcement processes and speeding up debt arrangement processes. So people's affairs will be handled much faster in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u75	Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u76	Mr President! This country has always built a better future for our children generation after generation, and now our generation knows that our way of consuming natural resources is unsustainable and climate change threatens the future of our children. It is our duty to repair this, and in it Finland’s forests are part of the world’s lungs. We need them for climate protection. The International Panel on Climate Change pointed out that carbon sinks in forests should be increased in order to limit global warming to acceptable figures, and the current trend in Finland is not enough. The Finnish Government is seeking a level of felling that can result in carbon sinks being halved and Finland is unable to participate in climate protection through emission reductions. [ Intermediate calls from the Centre Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u77	Mr President! In order to combat climate change, we urgently need emissions to be driven down, and I am proud to say that today the government has presented proposals for the entry into force of the ban on coal in 2029 and for the distribution obligations of renewable fuels. These are enough to get the emissions down. But this concern raised by Mr Niinistö that carbon sinks must also be maintained and strengthened in the future is important. My message is that this is also a global problem, which means that more forests are needed in the world, better-growing forests. In order to get through the debate about whether Finland's use of wood is at the right level right now, or whether it should be slightly reduced or raised, it is more important to look at this issue in the long term, and I have proposed a number of measures to increase the forest sector in Finland by, for example, planting trees in fields that have been abandoned from cultivation or by taking similar measures to strengthen sinks in the long term. This is the right path: increasing forest growth, long-term strengthening of sinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u78	There's still one more question to be asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u79	Mr President! We agree that these measures, as Minister The Tiilikainen has proposed, are good and carbon sequestration is needed, and I hope that the government will also consider considering carbon compensation, so that the forest owner can receive income from allowing the forests to grow older and to postpone the logging age in the forests, in which case they will act as carbon sinks, and that the forest owner will also be encouraged to do so. This would be a diverse forestry policy. But none of these measures will replace what you have said that carbon sinks will be reduced in the current plans over the next 15 to 20 years. Planting takes about 30 years, and this too should be corrected. I would also like to ask Minister Leppä if Minister Leppä can answer: do you see the problems that have arisen in Upper Lapland in open fellings such that the government should intervene in them and improve the forest law so that the landscape and reindeer husbandry and nature are not adversely affected by such fellings that people buy the land, chop the forest and sell it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u80	Madam President! The growth of forests and the growing forest is the only one that binds coal, and that is what we are trying to do. That is what Finnish forestry, the entire forest cluster, has been able to do, and when it has doubled growth over the past 60 years, it has also doubled its carbon sequestration capacity. So this is a success story. It's obvious. Then we have an oven-fresh forest law a few years ago, which enables forest owners to use more diverse forms of forest management and which has also brought the diversity that is needed, and that is a good thing. As far as these fellings in Upper Lapland are concerned, the Forest Centre will assess. It is the right authority to judge whether or not it has done the right thing, and I also trust this assessment. This law itself is excellent and effective, and I believe that it will have a great deal to do — as Mr Tiilikainen said here, these must be assessed in the longer term, from this very point of view — both in terms of Finnish forests and in terms of yield, carbon sequestration and diversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u81	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 21/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Jalonen, President of the Committee, please, and others will move outside to meet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u82	Mr President! This is indeed our report, which is, therefore, such an overall reform to build a Transport and Communications Agency. There are 635 pages here, which well illustrates the extent of this issue. So the creation of a Transport and Communications Agency is here. And since this is accompanied by parts of the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, the Finnish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency, this is indeed very large-scale, and then the Finnish Transport Agency will become part of the Finnish Transport Agency, which is a very, very, very large entity. This is intended to respond to this renewed environment, a challenging environment, where the traditional transport sector and digitality and automaticity are increasingly combined. They are interlinked, and this synergy must work. Synergy is also sought through the expertise and cooperation of different authorities. This is so big that it is challenging to find yet more that what is the biggest positive, the overall benefit, and it is feared that something may even be complicated. Nevertheless, the majority of the committee believes that this reform and its objectives are necessary and appropriate. Since it is a question of bringing together so many agencies, this also affects a very large number of workers, and the committee has been concerned about how things are going with this group of workers and whether they have made good progress for everyone. It is assured that this has been prepared in a spirit of good cooperation with the staff and their representatives. Because there are so many things connected here, one of these little fears has been related to how it is with this division of tasks: do they get too mixed up with each other, or does it become the desired synergy, as has been sought? The division of tasks should continue to be clear in the future, so that no wrong or overlapping activities are carried out. In other words, there must be no ambiguity or conflict in this division of tasks. That is what we, as a committee, have emphasised. Communication: The role of FICORA has been discussed a lot. When the entire communications sector, mainly its security, is very much associated with such a spirit of trust, this has been highlighted, and in particular the Finnish Communications Agency is a part of the Cybersecurity Centre. In particular, this cybersecurity centre should be kept separate from this overall structure in order to be able to operate with the efficiency and accuracy and reliability and non-bindingness that this activity requires. In other words, we have also raised the point here that this should then be taken into account in budgetary terms and that other resources should also be used to ensure that separation from other activities can be guaranteed. As I have started, and I have repeated many times, this is such a major reform that this is something that needs to be monitored very closely, especially from the point of view of this cybersecurity centre. Monitoring is extremely important here. Finally, it is necessary to present and state that the committee drew attention to the preparation of this law. This is, as has been said, a large package, and this has been the subject of a regional reform, let us say, a supplementary proposal because of the question mark, and, because of the size of the package, there has been quite a lot — too much — of legal repair. We have noted that, in this context too, due to the urgency of the matter, there has been a slight correction to the law review and we have pointed out that, in the case of the law review, we should be more careful in the future and, in particular, we need to pay attention to the whole — how quality remains at the level that this house should have. I will read here one point: ‘The committee shall draw attention to the level of legislativepreparation by the officials of the Ministry of Transport In this context, I myself dare to point out that the committee has, in many other areas, drawn attention to human resources and their adequacy, among other things. At this stage, it should perhaps be highlighted in relation to this monitoring and how to respond to needs. Although there is a rejection clause here, despite this negative tone in the drafting of legislation, we should also thank the whole committee, both the opposition and the government. However, work has been done together and efforts have been made to find the best possible solution. Special thanks must be given to the advice of the committee and to the other parliamentary officials who have written this report. Like I said, there's 635 pages here, and there's been a lot of work to do. But in the same breath we must also express our thanks to Minister Berner. As soon as these challenges came to his attention, he did offer all the help that was available and available, that is, thanks also to the minister. To this end, I would like to say that monitoring is extremely important and that the majority of the committee has considered this reform and its objectives necessary and appropriate. This reform of the Agency will enable the whole transport and communication sector to become more efficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u83	Thank you for the introduction. Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u84	Mr President! Speaking of the content of this proposal itself, yes, well, it may be that the combination of agencies with this timetable and planning brings benefits or savings, but I do not think it is particularly undeniable. When it comes to this drafting of legislation and its quality, I would say that the administration does not make government proposals, but they are signed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Responsibility, which means that the responsibility is there. This was brought to Parliament as a very unfinished proposal. It is not reasonable to bring before Parliament a law in which the preparation is so weak that the committee will even have to spell it out and make dozens of proposals for substantive changes. There has been no time for a law review, so this can happen. I wonder why this haste is based on the fact that an even more complete proposal must be used to confuse this issue, before the regional reform is resolved, and what its purpose may be. Does the government itself no longer believe that the regional reform will take place, or is there in some circles such a good candidate for the leadership of this new agency that a decision on this choice would be sought already during this government term? As far as I am concerned, we could put this motion on the line now, take this as an exercise and immediately put the necessary corrections right into the situation when the fate of the regional reform has been resolved, and then come back to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u85	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The agency reform before us has been far from good legislation from the Ministry and has, of course, also been reflected in the work of the Committee on Transport and Communications, as has already been well mentioned in the two previous speeches. The reform of the agency also included a supplementary government proposal HE 104, which separated the reform of the agency from the regional reform and replaced the references to the regions with ely centres. The expert hearings concerned, among other things, the distribution of tasks, the role of communication and the resources and the status of personnel of the Fairway Agency and the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. This has been caused by a hasty timetable before the regional reform. Fear of the current loss of skills and communication with the Finnish Transport Agency. Of the opinions submitted to the committee, a lot of criticism came from the Central Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, the EK and its members, Infra ry and the Association of Logistics Companies. Especially in expert hearings, the EK made it clear that the motivation behind the performance is the internal desire of the LVM to throw all the blocks into the air at once, as if the economic and functional effects were much less important. This presentation/model was also the subject of external evaluation, as I see it. The experts’ comments on the committee’s work, ‘why was this a major success of thisreform’, seem These quotes therefore come from the committee's hearings and from experts who are also in contact with us during the proceedings, not just in committee work. The reform is significant and major in the past, but it does indeed apply to 1500 workers. During the course of the proceedings, there was also a great deal of concern about the consultation of staff and the genuine impact on the content of the reform and its objectives. Most of the time, the Ministry’s experts assured a genuine opportunity to participate in the preparation of the legislative package. As far as the level of drafting is concerned, this package was heard during the preparation that the Ministry of Justice cannot even read the entire proposal in the shadow of schedules, let alone carry out a law review. In this regard, someone might say that it is unheard of. As a result of the amendments made in committee, the report grew to nearly 650 pages. As regards the committee's work, it can also be said that the report had to be drawn up by the committee in a hurry to obtain the seat of the Director-General of the new agency within the time limit. Mr President! After the committee’s work, the final result was that the draft report of the committee contains a paragraph which reads as follows: ‘The committee pays attention to the quality of the drafting of the law. Although the original government proposal is wide-ranging, there is still much left to be corrected in the supplementary government proposal. This is reflected in the list of legal and technical corrections contained in the detailed explanatory memorandum. The committee stresses the central importance of the review of the law by the Ministry of Justice and considers that the non-use of the law can only be considered in exceptional cases and for specific reasons. The committee draws the attention of the Director General of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the level of legislative drafting and considers it necessary for the Ministry to take measures to improve the drafting of legislation.” Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is indeed the text of the draft report by the committee. On this point, it is not unclear that we Social Democrats, the Finnish People's Party and the Left Left had no choice but to submit a motion of rejection to the Government's 61st and 104th readings — a presentation of it at the second reading of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u86	Madam President! As has been heard, this is a very big reform. 650 pages already indicate that a long and thorough legislative and reform work has been carried out. Important points have been raised here, including this issue of cybersecurity. The regional reform, which has been discussed in many different contexts in this Chamber and will continue to be dealt with in the coming months, has been one of the challenges of this reform too, and it has therefore been necessary to complete this proposal. I believe that the committee has done valuable work and has made important comments on, among other things, this issue of legislative drafting. There's no denying it. Of course, the law has to be thorough. And if something is discovered, the committee will make a proper record of it in its own text. The criticism of all reforms, however, is probably the main task of the opposition. In this case, too, it is based on opposition to reforms, as has been heard here in a few years. However, it should be remembered that no expert opinion suggested bringing down this reform. That is precisely the kind of fall that no expert can find in his report. There have been questions and possible doubts, but no expert at any point said that this reform should be brought down. So that is not what the experts have said. At the end of the day, all the reforms will be resolved once the reform has been carried out, when it is implemented and how it has been implemented. It will then be known whether the reform has been necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u87	Madam President! There seems to be quite a legal mess about the establishment of a transport and communication agency. With this interest, I have now listened to the speeches made by the members of the committee, because the Christian Democrats do not have a representative in the committee, and I am also rather concerned about the fact that the committee has actually been made to do the writing that should have been done in the ministry. Yes, indeed, as a representative mentioned here, a 650-page report: yes, it certainly does speak its own language about the fact that a considerable exercise in this house has had to be done. And I'm sure this isn't a good piece of legislation. If this is the case that the Ministry of Justice’s law review has been left unused also because of this haste, then that too does sound quite worrying. At this point, I do not dare to go yet to assess how the group will react to this. But I hope that, while the Minister is here on the ground, we may still be able to hear about this failure to make use of the law: has this has been the only reason why this has always been the case, or why, could we say, the really important elements in such a vast and large, fundamental set of laws have not been done? Indeed, I must say that, with extreme concern, I am listening to this. Thank you, too, to the chairman of the committee, who did not use embellishment to try to engrave this, but told us what this was all about in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u88	Mr President! It is indeed the case that the KD does not have a member in our committee. As chairman of the committee, I offer the hand of cooperation: you can talk to me whenever you see the need for this from this sector. So this cooperation will work. It is so extraordinary, the proposal is so broad and the supplementary proposal is so broad that it is already a physically large package that it is humanly understandable that there are those mistakes. But since there are far too many of those legal errors in quantitative terms, it was worth writing this openly in the report and stressing that in future attention should be paid to this level of drafting. There is therefore no direct criticism of this as an individual and personally, but of the whole that is here. Rather, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the next step is to do better, but let us keep this positive, good spirit and stick to it as in the spirit of thanks, as I said in that presentation. It is worth thanking the large number of staff in this House and also the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u89	Madam President! The fact that I criticised this motion was certainly not the opinion of Mr Taimela, but, frankly, it came from it through experts in committee hearings, and I mentioned among other things those who gave very critical feedback: the Central Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Municipalities, the EK and its members, Infra ry, and the Association of Logistics Companies. So it's not my opinion that these objections are in themselves. When Mr Pakkanen here threw out that the experts did not, however, indicate in committee that they wanted this law to be rejected, I am sure I have never sat down and had an influence in a committee in which this is being done. But they bring up those duubies because then we, as members of the committee, would also intervene and the Minister would also intervene. At the end of the day, the cold said that everything will be resolved once the reforms have been completed. Do you really think, Mr Pakkanen, that, for example, in the case of the taxi reform, which entered into force on 1 July 2018, it was so that when it came into force and the reform had been carried out, then all the problems were solved? This question fits perfectly well now that Mr Heinonen is also in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u90	Mr President! I will complete this debate so that when you say that the experts have not objected to this proposal, when you look at the experts who have been consulted, quite a few of them are more involved than the expert. So they are the kind of people who are going to work in that new organisation, so they are totally iced to talk about this at the level of due diligence, because they themselves are currently working in that organisation and will continue to be. They are certainly not going to assess whether this reform is appropriate and jeopardise their own tasks with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u91	Madam President! At the end of my speech, I said that it will only be possible to assess the implementation of the reform once the reform has been carried out, and after assessing the reform, it will be determined whether it has been a good or a bad reform. In this regard, the representative referred to a taxi reform, which also caused a hard debate here in the Chamber. Now the reform has been carried out, and we are currently monitoring what has happened to that reform. And as the representative is well aware, we already have a matter in committee where the substance of this reform is slightly clarified. One way or another, this reform of the agency will probably also be possible in the future, provided that there is something to correct or clarify. But you do not know in advance about these reforms either. In general, there will always be a proposal for a dump in some of the sayings in committee, not in this proposal, but in some of the proposals the reform and its preparation will have to be interrupted or put to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u92	Then, Minister, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u93	Madam President! I would like to thank the committee for its work on the administrative reform of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The proposal is wide-ranging, covering more than 2,000 pages. With this presentation, we ensured that the changing tasks and activities of the agencies are transmitted directly through legislation to citizens, businesses and other users of services. I personally believe that this reform will be of genuine benefit. We see how much the market is currently changing in traffic, how much digitalisation and automation will affect in the future. It is extremely important that the market know-how of FICORA and Trafi's licensing and safety know-how can be combined as traffic and communications are more closely linked. This reform is of genuine importance. I would also like to say that I myself have been present on several occasions and I have seen how strongly the staff have been committed to doing this, how much feedback has been given in our internal communication, how every single document has been accessible and transparently processed by every member of staff. The project has been surrounded by an intranet, which has genuinely made it possible for everyone to participate. This project has been criticised for its urgency. However, this has been the subject of a consultation in the early part of this year and it has been being worked on for a long time. There has also been criticism of the fact that the proposal is very broad. That's the way it is. At this point, when such a major reform is being carried out in the administrative sector, we have wanted to define more precisely the tasks and responsibilities, responsibilities and obligations, and also to see how the tasks of these agencies are being defined in greater detail. I myself believe that it is important to do so, because in the way we are defined today, we are not actually in a better position at the moment, but in the future we will have this whole thing taken in more detail. In the report, the committee drew attention to the quality of drafting legislation. Naturally, I accept this criticism. Technical errors are regrettable and should not be in the parliamentary stage. As Mr Jalonen said, the proposal is very broad, it has been made for a long time and there have also been human errors. Due to the resources of the Ministry of Justice, the government's proposal could not be fully audited, but parts of it have been checked. In the Ministry of Transport and Communications, we have paid particular attention to the quality of drafting legislation during this term of government. Together with the University of Eastern Finland, we have started law-making training. 30 people are now taking part in this training and will complete their studies in March. After that, the next course will continue in a similar way, and in the future, cooperation will be between the five ministries. I hope that this will enable us to respond to Parliament's criticisms and, at the same time, to improve our own quality in the work to come and also to meet the needs of the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u94	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item is the fifth item. Minister Berner will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u95	Madam President! There is a Government proposal to amend Articles 32 and 61 of the Driving Licence Act. The proposal will implement one of the new deregulation projects identified in the spring debate, namely the introduction of a mobile driving licence. In addition, conditions will be created for the growth of tourism and Nordic cooperation will be increased by accepting driving licences issued in Greenland and the Faroe Islands for short-term driving in Finland. We propose that the driving licence law be amended so that a voluntary and free application, the so-called mobile driving licence, is introduced alongside the traditional driving licence. A mobile driving licence could demonstrate the right to drive in traffic control, in line with the traditional driving licence. Its content, development and safety would be the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Safety Agency. A mobile driving licence would not replace the actual driving licence but would be an additional service for licence holders. A mobile driving licence is one practical example of what digitalisation enables in the transport sector. It has been in test use since December 2017 and the user experience has been excellent for both users and companies. The Finnish mobile driving licence has also attracted great interest abroad, and Finland is also an excellent opportunity to be at the forefront of this development. We also propose to amend the driving licence law so that driving licences issued in the Faroe Islands and Greenland are accepted for driving in mainland Finland for a maximum period of one year from the date of entry. Depending on the validity of the licence, it could carry a motorcycle and category B vehicles. However, changing a driving licence to a Finnish person would require the completion of a corresponding driver's certificate. The proposed amendment is also a response to the problem raised by the Nordic Council of Ministers' Border Barriers Council. Driving licences for the autonomous regions of the Faroe Islands and Greenland are currently not accepted throughout the Nordic countries without restrictions. Our national legislative amendment is a hand-out for these areas. In the future, it will also be possible to amend the 1985 Nordic driving licence and registration agreement so that all the Nordic countries will accept driving licences in these areas. Both of the changes we propose concern mainland Finland. Åland is entitled to its own driving licence legislation in accordance with the Self-Government Act. The amendments are proposed for entry into force on 1 February 2019. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u97	Madam President! Thank you once again to Minister Berner for a good proposal. A mobile driving licence is a welcome reform, which is certainly only a prelude to what will be seen in this area in a certain way. This is part of a wider application for motorists, which includes, for example, the technical part of the registration extract. Finland is a pioneer in this area, and the experience of these around 2000 test users has been only positive when the system was launched. As Minister Berner said, this does not replace a traditional driving licence. And actually, I'd like to ask you why not. Why can't we just go there right now? For at the moment, however, even the police, when one of us stops at one time or another, are no longer even asking about the paper or plastic driving licence, but are looking at the computer to see if the right to drive is in force. At least that's the way it's been for me the last few years since we stopped. I haven't had to show the card — and they haven't even recognized me, it's not the reason. So I would ask whether it might be possible to think that this would also replace the traditional one. On the other hand, I believe that this would open up opportunities for such a strong electronic mobile identity. And I would also like to ask Minister Berner if we could make a determined move towards a strong electronic identity in the future, such as a driving licence, a Kela card, an identity card, etc. For example, now at least these things that are used in their own country and perhaps in the future other things. I'm sure this would be welcome for a lot of people. So two questions: why not replace a traditional driving licence, and could this be taken decisively in the direction of a strong electronic mobile identity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u98	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the driving licence law so that the right to drive can also be demonstrated electronically in traffic control. This proposal must definitely be implemented, as is the electronic transport document we have already discussed last week. A driving licence is a driving licence document. A driving licence exists whether it is in paper, plastic or electronic form. The main thing is that a person has a valid driving licence. At present, the right to drive is checked in traffic control by asking the driver to present a driving licence. If he does not have it with him, the validity of the driving licence shall be reviewed by the police from the register of transport matters. In the worst case scenario, the driver gets a ticket from the police because the driver's license was not on board. In addition, the holder of a driving licence may be obliged to present the driving licence within the time limit to the police. This obligation of presentation is a very normal and general measure. Many countries still have projects aimed at moving towards the introduction of an electronic driving licence. Trafi has developed a mobile application with driving licence information, which runs under the name of a mobile driving licence, as part of a wider application by the motorist. A mobile driving licence is a voluntary additional service related to driving licences for licence holders. The purpose of the licence application is to use it to demonstrate the right to drive and for similar purposes where the licence can currently be used. Madam President! A driving licence is still not accepted as an identity identification document, for example when applying for a passport and an identity card. However, it is accepted as an identity statement, for example at the polling station and restaurants, to prove the age of the person. Although the use of a driving licence is quite limited in places and situations other than those I mentioned above, you can support this electronic version of the driving licence and, at the same time, this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u99	Madam President! Obviously, there is a consensus on this government proposal, also on the basis of expert opinions, and I will not object to this myself, but I will ask you a few questions. It is all right that digitalisation is increasing in Finland and that it is the government's line, and that is what we are going to do in the future. In what way do you ensure that those who are not there at the heart of digitalisation, such as the elderly, also accept this reform? However, this is not compulsory, which means that the old driving licence can be used and displayed — which reminds me of what Mr Heinonen said in that regard — that the driving licence is not being checked very much today, even if otherwise the car is stopped, so why is it? However, this would be very important, because driving without driving licences is also important, and sometimes the news comes out that you are driving without a driving licence. It would be very important that when you enter this type of electronic driving licence, then also it would be checked and that it would be in use. How, then, is this electronic identification? That would be very important, too. We know that a driving licence is enough in many places in Finland: you can prove your identity with it, but, for example, if you are going on a trip to Estonia, for example, you have to have that passport, which means that driving licence is not enough. How can we proceed in this regard? I myself have been in the Nordic Council and I know that a great deal was done there to remove border barriers. I see that every removal of the border barrier is a good thing. I also welcome the presentation that driving licences issued in the Faroe Islands and Greenland should be accepted in mainland Finland. In other words, it is good to remove these barriers. But do you promise, Minister, that you will maintain the theme that we are not all living in the centre of digitalisation? We also have a lot of people in Finland who do not understand it at all, as many people here feel that they are keeping up with all these wonderful changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u100	Madam President! This licence application or digital driving licence, which is what you want to call a mobile card, is indeed a good innovation, and that is what has been done in many areas during this government term. The applications that this is going to take will, of course, develop in the future, because this is now the first step on this side. Once this group of experienced users has been here, they have made a very positive statement about this mobile driver's license, and that is how good it is. A driver's license, as has been said here, is not valid for identification in all places as official paper. It must be important, however, that we retain our passport. Then, in time for this identification, there will probably be more bioidentification options, and whether these will then become more common on the driving licence side, among other things. It should be remembered, however, that this electronic identification is still a challenge in Finland from the point of view of such technical connections. That is why I think it is important that this does not become a priority, but that we retain the traditional driving licence. And on other matters: for example, sometimes it is quite challenging to open a train ticket on a train, and when this identification should work quickly, it may be a minute or two before you can check the train ticket, then at that point such a manual version would be quite quick, however. The motorist application is an interesting thing that how much information will then be included in this. But I believe that in future, if necessary, everything can be identified by electronic means. This is, in many respects, a factor that facilitates police traffic control. Of course, when I talk to the police on a number of occasions, they want to have that conversation as quickly as possible. In that sense, this electronic identification is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u101	Madam President! As has already been heard here, this is such a rather uncontroversial government proposal. And, as has also been heard, this bill would now be accompanied by this electronic driving licence based on a mobile application, which, through password and strong authentication, would provide the registration information of the driving licence. The use of the service would be voluntary and free of charge, and the electronic driving licence could be used as well as physical. As a difference to a traditional driving licence, the user could only show limited information in a situation where the right to drive is not required. I now dare take the example of showing my age at Alko's cashier or at Alko's counter. Then, at the same time, Finland would now accept the Faroese and Greenland driving licences for a year from entry as part of the objectives of the Joint Nordic Border Obstacle Council. I personally feel that, apart from the fact that this seems very simple and worthwhile, in future this type of presentations will have to pay particular attention to our information security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u102	Madam President! In the name of Nordic cooperation, it is certainly very much to be welcomed that this one-year licence is granted to licences issued in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. This mobile driver’s license sounds all right with you, and it has been interesting to hear about these successful pilots and experiments. Of course, this always raises the question of security and strong identification and these issues. But I believe that this has certainly been carefully prepared in the Ministry, because, as has been pointed out here in the speeches, this document is also very often used to identify a person, in addition to exercising the right to drive. When it seems that today almost any kind of data protection gates can be broken on the part of professional hackers, then of course such a thing always becomes a concern that it is possible for the phone to end up in the wrong hands. In that sense, when Mr Heinonen said that everything should be put there on the mobile, there is little to worry about: if everything is there at once and the phone is taken away, and yet there is a chance of breaking that authentication, then all the information is in the hands of the abuser. Minister Berner can be commended above all for this promotion of digitality. This is reflected in the cross-cutting approach of the minister's various projects. In these, I am sure it is precisely the future we are going towards. But today it seems that more and more of all this digitalism raises two questions: firstly, whether everyone is involved, i.e. this danger of digital exclusion, which was also raised here. Then another, which relates to this issue of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u103	Madam President! I would also like to correct Mr Juvosen and Mr Heinonen's comments in the sense that when the police carry out professional controls of traffic — if he does not carry out mass blow-ups, that is to say, drink-driving — when he stops the vehicle, he always asks for a driving licence and registration. I have to admit, I too have once had one cardless pass, but the next day it was fixed. Like I said, a professional cop always checks his license when he stops the vehicle. It's just the basics of police work, and if you're not interested in that job, you can go to indoors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u104	Mr President! I have experience with the police, and I do consider them all very professional, even though they have not wanted to see the card. I understand that they prefer to ensure it through their electronic system, because I know that people can have more than one copy of these cards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u107	All right, Minister Berner will answer. Three minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u108	Madam President! Here, too, the will mode is to move forward step by step, and that means in practice that when everyone does not yet have access to the mobile application, we are meant to have this as a parallel service. At the same time, the EU does not yet recognise a mobile driving licence. That is also why this can now be parallel in Finland, and that is how we can be actively involved in international standard development and related work. We receive a great deal of requests from the Nordic Council, among other things, that the Nordic countries should have a common strong electronic identity that would enable business, but also allow social security, Kela and other services to be combined, and at the same time remove border barriers. It has been important in Finland that we do the work precisely so that we feel that the background services can be coordinated, and then we can take them into electronic form. An electronic identity will certainly be important in the future and, as Mr Heinonen said, we already need strong identification for all banking activities, which is precisely an electronic service. So everyone is involved, and I would like to point out that when we talk about digital mobile services they almost never exclude the previous services, but they are parallel opportunities. It is important that we do not miss them and that for those who want new, modern digital services, we also make it possible, even if we still have all the traditional forms and opportunities from the landline. The security features of the mobile driving licence correspond to the security features of the passport, both of which, of course, are constantly being developed, but this has been a particularly good concern for the security features. With regard to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, I would like to say that this is precisely a question of Nordic cooperation and dismantling the border barrier and that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland are already practically complying with almost all the EU's common legislation on driving licences and related information security. We are therefore confident about this. — Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u109	Madam President! On this driver's license. In Finland, we can only have one Finnish driving licence at a time. Of course, I can have three driving licences in my pocket too, but I can do it the way I think I'm gonna lose that license and go to the police department and get a new one again and I'm gonna lose and go get another one. As part of a driver’s detention check, I myself have found three driving licences issued to him. That is possible in the purse to find those cards, but it is not possible that there is more than one licence valid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u111	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda will be the sixth item. Minister Berner will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u112	Madam President! There is now a government proposal for a law amending Articles 16 and 64a of the Motor Vehicle Act and some related legislation allowing the use of larger snowmobiles on snowmobile routes that are suitable for the purpose of the present and specifically allocated to them. The regulation on the classification of snowmobiles dates back to the 1970s and has not been examined since the establishment of a snowmobile route regulation in the 1990s. There are now off-road vehicles on the market which, in terms of their use and characteristics, are mainly similar to professional snowmobiles, but which are not snowmobiles under the vehicle law, since their weight and the number of persons carried on them exceed the limits laid down for the snowmobile category and are therefore not allowed to be used on snowmobile routes. A definition of a heavy snowmobile would be added to the vehicle law, which would mean 800 kilos, or 300 kg, of engines larger than the current snowmobile, which could have space for up to four people in addition to the driver. According to the performance, a heavy snowmobile should only be driven on the snowmobile routes assigned to them by the routekeeper. The use of a heavy snowmobile on the snowmobile route would be permitted with an additional plate attached to the sign indicating it. The carriage of a heavy snowmobile would require the carriage of a snowmobile with a category T licence. Snowmobiles play a particular role in Lapland, where their income and employment impact is high. Snowmobiles are vital to the reindeer husbandry industry, for example, and important to the Defence Forces and other authorities. Snowmobile safaris and rides are, in turn, important tourist services. In addition, leisure sledding and self-employed safaris increase their popularity. The number of tourists throughout the whole Lapland area has increased, and the number of snowmobile safaris specially tailored for foreigners is increasing. The reform of regulation would allow more people to travel on the snowmobile route with fewer vehicles and thus contribute to the development of winter tourism services. The draft proposal has been notified to the Commission during the preparation and the Commission has expressed its concern that it might restrict the use of heavy snowmobiles. In reality, the proposal would make it possible to use heavier snowmobiles on snowmobile routes where they are currently completely banned. In order to benefit from heavy snowmobiles in the coming winter season, the proposed laws will be presented for entry into force on 1 January 2019. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u113	Thank you for the introduction. To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u114	Madam President! It is a pleasure and an honour to talk a little about snowmobiles that I have been dealing with quite a lot in my work as a police officer. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the vehicle law, the driving licence law, the road traffic law and the road traffic law. This proposal is already justified by the fact that the regulation on the classification of snowmobiles dates back to the 1970s and has not been examined since the establishment of a snowmobile route regulation in the 1990s. In view of the development of snowmobiles and snowmobile routes from the 70s to today, we can talk about a completely different world. At present, there are off-road vehicles on the market which, in terms of use and characteristics, are mainly similar to professional snowmobiles. However, according to Article 16(2) of the Vehicle Act, they are not snowmobiles because their weight and the number of persons carried on them exceed the limits laid down for the category of snowmobile vehicles. The snowmobile is defined as a bogie-driven motor sleigh weighing not more than 500 kg, with space for no more than two persons in addition to the driver. Even now, with the permission of the landowner, larger motor sleighs than existing snowmobiles can be used on the terrain but not on the snowmobile route within the meaning of the Road Traffic Act and the Road Traffic Act. It has been considered a problem especially in Lapland. When snowmobile safaris are organised on snowmobile routes, the definition of snowmobile in its current form of Article 16(2) of the Vehicle Act limits the choice of equipment suitable for the purpose, since snowmobile routes may only be driven on a snowmobile in accordance with the Vehicle Act. The current snowmobile routes have been developed and set up for the so-called conventional snowmobiles. The larger own mass of the engine line often also means larger dimensions, so they should be taken into account on snowmobile routes and when they are set up. If a snowmobile can also be driven on a wheel, this should also be taken into account. The snowmobile career and the snowmobile route are quite different in terms of their requirements and status. Finland has a total of some 3,800 kilometres of official and free snowmobile routes. Official routes are roads for snowmobiles defined in the Road Traffic Act. In addition to official routes, there is an even greater number of snowmobiles where the permission of the landowner or the snowmobile operator will continue to be required to drive. As also stated in the proposal, wider snowmobiles can increase the risk of encounter accidents. This could be reduced by installing a yellow warning light on a snowmobile in such a way as to warn the receivers. I personally do not see too many threats in this proposal, but it has opportunities for tourism companies in particular. Larger snowmobiles, such as snowmobile safaris, make it possible to transport more people by fewer vehicles and their drivers. This means that, for example, children or inexperienced drivers will be better able to take part in the snowmobile ride, and the proposal will thus have indirect effects on the tourism industry in terms of income and employment. Madam President! With these proposals, I can recommend this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u115	Madam President! This government proposal would change the definition of a snowmobile in the Motor Vehicle Act to include a heavy snowmobile such as certain larger off-road vehicles currently considered to be a motor cycle, and a heavy snowmobile would be allowed to drive on an appropriate snowmobile route under the RVR. There in the north and in Ostrobothnia and where that snowline is now going, there is a great deal of snowmobileing and I would see that this performance has a major impact on tourism and incomes and the impact on employment across Finland. In particular, as you mentioned, Minister, in reindeer husbandry, the snowmobile is in hard use as well as in the Defence Forces, in other words, the snowmobile is actually a tool. Of course, it is also related to tourism, and many people come to Finland precisely because we have snow and then have the opportunity to engage in various hobbies there in the middle of the snow. I now hope that a good winter will come next year if the law enters into force on 1 January 2019, as you said, Minister. You can't go snow-skiing without it. But I would ask about the safety of snowmobiles: Every year, however, these unfortunate accidents occur. What, then, is the reason for them, in what way does Finland pay attention to it when travelling on snowmobiles to the safety side? Of course, it is understandable that when snowmobile routes come, they should be safe, durable and of high quality. In what way will it be ensured that we start to anticipate and prevent those unfortunate accidents, when very often, then, the consequences of these snowmobile accidents are also very damaging?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u116	Madam President! This bill, as has been heard, would add the definition of heavy snowmobiles, which would cover snowmobiles weighing more than 500 kg but not more than 800 kg, which are mainly used by tourism entrepreneurs. This amendment and presentation have indeed been greatly desired by the tourism entrepreneurs of Lapland in connection with various visits and network meetings. The use of heavy sleds would be permitted on snowmobile routes found suitable for heavy sleds on behalf of the route manager. In practice, then, this means load capacity, curves and slopes. And as far as this driving licence is concerned, a category T licence would be required to carry a heavy sled, as is currently the case with these modern sleds, and the same speed limits would apply. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that during this consultation, the Ely of Lapland, the Police Board, Tukes and Transport Security highlighted the growing risks of heavy snowmobiles in the use of tourism. The combination of sleds is growing so large that they are not in practice even suitable for most of the current routes — this is the feedback from the operators in the area from the consultation. On the other hand, I think that these sleigh rides may also reduce the driving of inexperienced drivers on their own holiday trips, and this too was well mentioned in some of the speeches. I think that this is a very supportive presentation, reflecting on those tourism activities in Lapland. And it is indeed this that these occasional tourists then perhaps are themselves out of the sled handles after this performance. But on the other hand, this concern of the consultation that not all routes for these future heavy snowmobiles are now in the best condition, now also brings cost pressures on entrepreneurs working for the tourism industry in Lapland. On the other hand, this bill, when it works, will also generate more income for them, and I am sure that it will also be possible to invest more in these routes in the future. But it's a bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u117	Madam President! Certainly from the hopes of tourism, this bill has moved forward, but, just as the Minister said there, the army and reindeer husbandry also have a professional use for this type of heavy snowmobile. This definition of a heavy snowmobile, which is now being introduced into legislation, is of course important, as is the fact that the route will then be taken care of, i.e. that there is a marked routing which is suitable for this type of vehicle and also that this category T licence requirement is here. Just as Mr Taimela and a few other colleagues have pointed out, I also think that it may be even better for road safety to have a safari professional driving such a snowmobile than that many tourists, perhaps for the first time or with very little experience, take the route with these snowmobiles. In that sense it may be so that this is an explicit increase in road safety in that area. I am sure that we will have to consider precisely the routes in which this type of heavy snowmobile can be driven and whether, for example, weather conditions may affect the condition of the snowmobile routes to such an extent that in any case we have to take into account the kilo limits, i.e. the fact that these are considerably heavier than the current snowmobiles. I'm sure you can support the motion, and I'm sure you'll be able to make little progress in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u118	Minister Berner, reply. - Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u119	That is enough, Madam President! Thank you for these views and feedback. Mr Juvonen: I believe that, when this requires a category T driving licence and at the same time allows the route manager to determine which routes these heavy snowmobiles can take, and at the same time limit speeds and ensure that this becomes more professional, these factors together will certainly increase safety. At the same time, of course, we must be concerned all the time about the weights of vehicles increasing, that we have routes of widths and other such criteria respectively then applied by Trafi. There will then be a readiness to do so if this legislation is adopted by Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u120	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u121	Madam President! This is the case with a parallel legislative initiative amending the law on compensation for military accidents and service disability and the law on financial support for the death of a compulsory military officer. At the beginning of 2017, a law entered into force which significantly improved insurance cover for those in crisis management, while a very important law for those in crisis management came into force, then the military, or conscripts and others who were likened to them, were left without this insurance cover. I made a bill then and got 116 signatures on it, and now the bill has progressed in such a way that we currently have Law 122/2018 in our parliamentary reading, which brings Finnish military conscripts, voluntary conscription women and persons carrying out civil service to this same insurance cover. So the bill has moved forward, and thanks to the government for bringing this law here to Parliament. However, while we have this very good law on the table and it is there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there are some points that I would like to raise, and I have taken a legislative initiative to correct one of the things that exists in that law. There is, as it were, a loophole that feels untenable in terms of all justice and moderation. So when this crisis management law came into force in 2017, and now since the beginning of next year, on 1 January 2019, it is estimated that this military insurance law will come into force, then we will be in the dark of the year when these accidents may have occurred to the militarymen, but they are not entitled to compensation. In other words, with this bill, I propose that compensation be paid retrospectively last year to those who may have had accidents, or even if there has been a death. In other words, the government has submitted to Parliament a government proposal to amend the law on compensation for military injury and service disability and the law on financial support in the event of the death of the conscript, and the proposal proposes that, in the performance of military duty, disabled and deceased next of kin should be entitled to a new supplement. A military officer would be entitled to a lump sum of up to EUR 21000 for permanent harm caused by an injury or illness in accordance with the Military Accidents Act or in the form of a service allowance, and, in the case of military service as a result of a military accident or service disability, to a lump sum in life insurance of EUR 200000 for the spouse of the deceased person’s child of EUR 40000. If the deceased conscript did not have a spouse or a child, his parents would be entitled to a lump sum of EUR 20000. These provisions therefore also apply to women engaged in voluntary military service as well as to those engaged in civil service. This is a budget-related law and is also dealt with in this context. An accident or injury to a military service is a great tragedy, and there is certainly no price for it. No money replaces health or loss. The death of a person who performs the statutory military service while performing the service is an event for which no words can be found. So this law, which may come into force from the beginning of next year, is important, and it looks at those in the military service and their loved ones. The law is good, but, as I said earlier, the entry into force raises questions because the law would only apply to the damage that occurs when the law came into force on 1 January 2019. As I see it, it is justified that the law now in force should be applied retroactively until the date of entry into force of the Act authorising the improvement of insurance cover in crisis management, i.e. until 1 January 2017. In other words, a year back would be taken into account for all the accidents or, possibly, deaths that have occurred, and would then be compensated for them. I have also made a budget initiative on this issue, which will provide resources, in other words, money for these retroactive compensations. In October 2017, there was an accident in Raasepor in Uusimaa, where VR’s rail bus and the Defence Forces’ truck collided with each other. Three conscripts were killed in this accident and many conscripts were seriously injured. Other accidents may also have occurred in the equipment since 1 January 2017, and this parallel law initiative brings the victims of accidents and their beneficiaries under the law. I would like to thank all of you 116 MPs — I am sorry, it may be a little too much — but more than 100 MPs who signed this parallel bill and all the 116 Members who signed the bill for the possible entry into force of this law at the beginning of next year. This is a very important issue. However, there are also a few loopholes here, and I would like to mention them here: there would still be compensation for those who are trained in military or Border Guard posts, as well as for those who are involved in activities under the Voluntary National Defence Act. It would be very important for us here in Parliament to also have a debate on how these people can be brought into the scope of additional compensation, and it would also be very important for us to look into it. They are not currently part of my parallel legislative initiative, but perhaps then the next. Mr President! Question Time also dealt with legal initiatives and talked about sexual offences against children. The True Finns have also made many legislative initiatives — three of them themselves — and it is very good that these laws may also come to Parliament. Sometimes time goes too slow, things take a long time. This law, too, relating to the insurance cover of the conscripts should have come into force a year ago, but better late than never. Let us really hope that compensation can also be paid retroactively, because I am a mother and there are many mothers and fathers here and we are talking about our children, that is, those who will then go into the army there in the future. If there's no money in the budget for this, then we'll have the Christmas gift money. And then the Christmas gift money can also be used to allocate this retroactivity to those who need compensation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u122	Mr President, värderade fru talman! This is a good and worthwhile initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u123	Mr President! Finland has general military service. That's good. It is true that an independent country needs its own army. If it's not yours, it's someone else's. Unfortunately, there are times when those who perform the military service get injured, they get injured, they get hurt. Even life can go away. This is a tragedy that has no price, but if such a shocking thing happens, at some point economic problems and things will also arise in this difficult situation. In this respect, the Government's proposal 122 will bring a change for the better. That's good. In his bill, which we are now discussing, Congressman Juvonen raises an improvement on the Government's proposal that the law should be applied retroactively from 1 January 2017. I warmly support Mrs Juvonen's bill. In this connection, I would also like to say a few words about the veterans of our wars when we talk about military service, the army. Today, we still have 12,000 veterans of our wars and a couple of thousand wartimers. This government will make a decision — probably because it has also been agreed jointly by the parliamentary groups — that the war veterans and veterans of our wars, among other things, in the services to be taken home, will be on the same line. That is a very good and expected thing. The Finns have brought up the affairs of our veterans for many years, long ago. I have also personally taken a legislative initiative to put the war veterans and veterans on the same track in the services, and I am very pleased and grateful for that, because now it seems that this issue is going to go to the finish line. Unfortunately, this may not come into force until a year from now, and it will take a lot of time, and we know that veterans are very old. Indeed, the budget is somewhat equipped for this, but not enough. That is why I have taken a budget initiative, which will probably come to the vote before Christmas. The war-affiliators — 2000 — have presented a problem that, at the moment, if there is a war-related injury of less than 20%, they are not very easily placed in institutional care. This is a problem which must also be resolved very quickly. This is what I am doing in the process of parliamentary procedure and I hope that I will get a lot of signatures on that bill and that it can be accepted. But once again, thank Mrs Juvonen for this bill. I hope this is taken into account and will go through. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u124	Mr President! The Committee on Defence has already issued its own opinion on this Government's proposal to amend the law on compensation for military accident and service disability and the law on financial support for the death of an obliging person, of which this initiative by Mr Juvonen is a parallel initiative, and it is extremely important and good that this matter should proceed, because it is quite clear that if there is an accident or a death in the performance of military duty, then the State must replace it, because there is a service for the State. But just as Mrs Juvonen has pointed out here, the problem with the draft law is that it has been thought that it would only come into force at the beginning of 19 and would not be taken into account retroactively. The Committee on Defence also drew attention to this in its own opinion, and of course it is always a question of how much backwards the matter should be, but in this case there is quite a clear date to be found, and that is indeed the law of 1 January 2017, when the law on compensation for military accident and service disability came into force and the law on compensation for accident and service disability in a crisis management mission. This would be a logical date on which this law could be fixed so that these compensations would be paid retroactively. Mr Juvonen's initiative has received a large number of signatures. More than half of Parliament believes that this law should be adopted retroactively from 1 January 2017, and I really hope that, when the Committee on Social Affairs and Health deals with this law, they will take note of the message of this Parliament's will and also of the Committee on Defence that it will be possible to consider its starting date.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u125	Madam President! When the crown needs to be sent, the crown must also have the opportunity to take care of it. That, in my view, is the whole point. I would like to thank the government of our country for the fact that this military accident law has been under discussion and under way in Parliament for a long time. Minister Niinistö and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have worked well together here, and the proposal has been received. This is a continuation of, among other things, the Kriha-veteran programme, which we worked on for a long time, and the so-called Lex Jylhä, and now the measures that have come into force at the beginning of last year are also being extended to the garrison. The Committee on Defence has dealt with this issue, as Mr Mikkonen pointed out. We have already completed our work there, and we agreed that we would propose that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health carefully go through this whole and assess the way in which we should take a position on this retroactivity and how we should live with it. Of course, there is always the challenge of retrospective legislation that a person will then be excluded from it. All in all, since the early 1990s, 18 conscripts and reservers have died in various accidents. Of course, the most recent thing in our memory is this shocking incident in Raasepori, in which three conscripts died, but only a year before that, a reservist in the Pori Brigade died, and he, or his family, would remain outside this retroactive decision until 1 January 2017. On the other hand, a year earlier, 2015, the garrison in Syndalen died. His loved ones and relatives would also be excluded from this retroactivity until 1 January 2017. Or you don't have to go back two years, and the Air Force pilot died at Lake Lesti. His loved ones and relatives would also be excluded from this retroactivity until 1 January 2017. After all, our most serious accident occurred in 91 C.E. when seven garrisonmen drowned with the BTR in the Karelian Brigade. It's been a long time, of course. But I wanted to point out that in the next few years we will have three of Raasepor's dead conscripts, a reserver in 2016, an air force pilot in 2013, and I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will also look at this situation, that the retroactivity will be sufficient until 1 January 2017, and if they do, what is the basis for the reservist from the Pori Brigade who died in 2016, to be excluded from this. I hope for a thorough, thorough evaluation by StV. But as I said, when the crown sends, the crown must also take care of its sons and girls.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u126	Madam President! This parallel bill is certainly widely supported in this House, and it is extremely important that this be extended to military personnel who are covered by insurance cover through retroactive legislation. Whenever we talk about retroactive legislation, it is certainly the problem where the border is drawn and how far the matter is looked back, but I think Mrs. Krista Mikkonen made a good point about the entry into force of this military accident law on 1 January 2017, which means that there is a clear point of reference to it, so that one might say that there would be a reasonable date until which this retroactivity could be considered. Of course, there are always those situations and cases where one wonders whether there may be other ways to take into account the unfortunate and unfortunate events that have taken place in Finland this millennium too. And, indeed, as Mr Heinonen said, when you are in the service of your country, then the country will also shoulder to the end its responsibilities in these matters. But I am glad that this parallel bill has received such good support here in the House, and I am sure that it will be carefully dealt with there in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u127	Madam President! Yeah, why wouldn't that retroactivity apply to a reserver, for example? That is because the reservists have not been included in this new future law at all. So this law, which will come into force next year, will be the garrison, and then there will be the women who volunteer for military service, and then there will be the three, that is, the civil service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u132	Mr President! As previous speakers have said, it is easy to agree with this legislative initiative by Mr Juvosen and many others, including myself, who are more than 100 MPs. As Mr Juvone has already said in his presentation, the government has therefore finally tabled a proposal to amend the law on compensation for military accidents and service disability and the law on financial support for the death of the conscript, so that the law will apply to the conscripts from the beginning of next year. And that is the perfect solution. Only this time in this government proposal is very late, but the matter itself is very important. This government proposal is therefore very much in the same direction, as has already been pointed out in the legislative initiative of Mr Juvonen, the representative of the Finns Party, and it is therefore very good that the proposal goes forward in this form. Mr President! It is very important for the maintenance and development of a general desire for defence to include conscripts in compensation under the Military Accidents Act and other relevant laws. However, this bill by Mr Juvonen, which is now under discussion, would also bring the victims of the very sad and serious Raasepori accident, at least a year ago, into the scope of this law. As stated in the bill, for example, insurance cover for those serving in crisis management was improved by legislation as of 1 January 2017, and the date proposed and presented in this new bill for the retroactive nature of the law is therefore well-founded in my view. The proposal as a whole is therefore very much to be welcomed, and I hope that it will receive a swift and proper parliamentary debate in committee and also here in plenary later. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to mention the point raised by the representative of the People's Republic of Finland in Elomaa today, and often at other times, about the need to pay particular attention to the status of veterans and invalids. Unfortunately, over the years, their number has fallen to just over 10,000 and will decrease even faster in the future. It is therefore easy to agree with the view and the view that the debt of honour to veterans is already very urgent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u133	Madam President! As I said myself, I have also signed that parallel bill. But I have considered this situation, and it is difficult for me to find, precisely from the perspective of equality, why the relatives and loved ones of the conscript who died in Syndalen in 2015 would be left in a worse position. I brought up the case of the Pori Brigade or the case of Lake Lesti. Even if it did not go any further back, I pointed out that, from the point of view of equality, I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should consider that these previous cases should also be brought into the scope of this legislation retrospectively. There is no equal treatment for these people and their families if we extend it to just one serious accident in the next few years and forget these other young people and their families, who have been through a very hard time. At least my own sympathy is not only with the victims of the events in Raasepori, but also with the families of the Pori Brigade, the Syndalen accident, the Lestijärvi accident and other victims of accidents, and I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will be treated equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u134	Madam President! I fully agree: my sympathy and thoughts are also with all those who have visited the army, even the elderly, because I have met so many of them during this process. After all, the first bill was taken before this unfortunate Raasepor accident happened, I did it last summer 2017. I was hoping that it could have been carried forward at a very fast pace by then, but it did not progress at that time. Why not? It is the money that solves these issues, and that is what it was all about, that it was tried not to be able to take it forward. Mr Heinonen, you have not signed this parallel bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u137	Mr President! Representative Heinonen raised this deadline set in the bill for the beginning of this retroactivity on 1 January 2017. So that is the time limit for this bill. As such, it is quite justified, but I do not think that any of us would object if this retroactivity could be added back a little bit, as far back as possible to the past, of course it will be all right for us Basic Finns. But, of course, there is also a little question of resources. This is where the so-called Christmas presents of Parliament have come up. Could there possibly be a small amount — what will the Committee on Finance and Finance be discussing during this autumn and early winter in December — so that this retroactivity could be used more? If I have understood correctly, Mr Heinonen is also a member of the Committee on Finance and, as a respected parliamentarian there, I hope that he, in a spirit of good cooperation with other parties, could take this matter forward, both in his own committee and more generally in the committee as a whole. And yes, we do hope that this retroactivity will be achieved by at least the two years set out here, but preferably even beyond the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u138	Mr President! Let us fix it ourselves now that Mrs Juvonen has said that: I really did, that is to say, when she asked me to sign it, I did not sign this initiative. There was the fact that the matter in question, the military accident law, had already been before us in the Committee on Defence, and also this retroactivity, such as the representative. Mikkonen brought up, we had a discussion, and one of the reasons why it would exclude, for example, the relatives of a conscript who died in Syndalen and many others who have experienced such events in the recent past. I personally believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is now going to go through this thoroughly and make a proposal, and according to what time limit they will end up with in retroactivity, Parliament will probably be living. This money will certainly not be caught if the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes it. I personally think it is important not only to extend to Raasepor, but also to include these other serious accidents over the next few years in this legislation if the Committee on Social Affairs and Health finally ends up with retroactivity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u139	Madam President! I will try to take care of this at least myself there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because there I am the only representative of the Finns of Finland at the moment and this law, as well as this parallel bill, are both there now, then, to find that resource, because we are really talking about small amounts. I am open and I would like to have an open window and compensate them, to whom compensation is due. In this final speech, I would like to thank all of you who have been involved in this debate here in the Chamber, all the people who have signed the two legislative initiatives. And then I would also like to send greetings and thanks to the Minister for Finance, Mr Petteri Orpo, because he, if anyone, knows that there has been a tough drive on this issue, and every time we talk about money or budget, I have been so-called on my chest and reminded him: remember, Minister, that this matter of the garrison is still unpunished. As a conscript, the disabled have also been strongly involved in this, and I would also like to thank them and send them my greetings. It is a good thing that there are hearing ears, and when the matter is important and the matter is important and you start thinking about it with your heart as well, things are moving forward. And when you realize that there is a mistake and there is a flaw in the law, and especially when you can justify it by still being equal, and by putting groups of people in a position of inequality, then there is obviously a gap in the new law, and I have seen it, and it is now moving forward. Thank you to all the Members of this House for your support. Quite a number of times when I asked for signatures, I had to answer the question: How much does all this cost and where does this money come from? I am not a bank, but I have also taken an economic initiative, and I myself have calculated that very little money is something we are talking about. I hope that progress is made. - Thank you, everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u140	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u141	Mr President! The bill proposes to amend Article 27 on the entry into force of the Act on the regional provision of public employment and business services and the testing of working life. The law will be extended until the end of 2020. This bill has been signed by 58 MPs from seven different parties. This is about the fact that regional experiments in public employment and business services are the top project of the government and the experiments have started well, but the pilot schedule for the initial regional reform is now too tight. In a short period of time, regional experiments have been able to tackle the hard core of unemployment and have produced significant results. The customers of the experiment have been employed and activated and satisfied with the service they have received. The pilots have also built new partnerships with the private sector and developed numerous service innovations. Municipalities have been able to harness the entire municipal organisation as a platform for employment-promoting services. Mr President! Between September 2017 and June 2018, 10565 people have been employed from customers of pilot offices. Of them, 2723 have been employed through pay subsidies. In accordance with the pilot law, the target group of the experiments is the most difficult to employ in relative terms, and in this respect it is difficult to compare it with other employment measures and areas where the experiment has not been in force. The legislative amendment will enable the continuity of good development, provide sustainable evidence of the impact of experiments and ensure the smooth transition of good practice to the province and growth service pilots. With regard to this transition, one might say that the most difficult situation will come if this pilot law on new growth services does not get through to this Parliament quickly enough — it is here not only in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities but also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — and now that these experiments are threatened by a shutdown, if this legislative amendment is not not made, we may end up in a situation where, at the very moment when our labour markets are running very well because of the government's successful economic policy and work is available, our services may be cut off. Of course, services will not be interrupted in such a way that we always have services available, but it is these services that have produced these results that may be cut off before these new pilots can start to move. I therefore consider it important that if this bill were not adopted in this form, at least a solution would be found that such a period of time would not arise for this provision of services. Another extremely important point is that, in my view, the contribution of municipalities to employment management is not sufficiently understood. As far as I know, municipalities spend around EUR 800 million a year on their own money on employment activities, and Tampere, for example, has EUR 10 million originally budgeted for this experiment. These are major investments, and it is now the case that if the system changes in such a way that the role of municipalities in the management of employment is reduced, then the funds of the municipalities must be made available to this end, because I do not think it realistic that we could increase the contribution of the state to the budget so much that they can spend the same amount. That is why it is very important that the transition to a new system — when the provinces start and the growth services start — takes place in such a way that the municipalities remain motivated to act as a funder of services, otherwise we will not be able to guarantee sufficient quality of services for a sufficient number of people, as we have now been able to offer with this experiment. I hope that when the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities deals with this issue, they will manage to find a solution to the problem I described here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u142	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Satonen for this legislative initiative, which will allow regional experiments to continue. It is extremely important that there should be no interruption in these services at this very point in time, when, at the moment, we in the labour market seem to be pulling out, and also in these most difficult groups, including the long-term unemployed, there would actually be an opportunity for subsidised services to get away from working life. Of course, in that sense one could say that there is a reproach on the part of the government, because this whole social-tasteing thing is in the background here, and that is why we have to speed up this legislation in this way so that there is no interruption when we have waited for these laws to come into force and it has not been considered necessary by the government to continue these experiments. It is Tampere and Pirkanmaa that have excellent experiences with these different local models. It has been wonderful that there has been the best possible results in precisely this kind of multiprofessional approach, where it has been possible to combine social work and then also training and build them local models. The fact that people have been face-to-face and have been tailored to these different services has clearly been visible. In this respect, one might say that it is good to look in that direction too. When you always wonder why there are so many more people in employment services in Sweden, even though there are about the same number of unemployed people, it is precisely because you can better catch a person and really then help them in these situations. After all, we have had little people on the Internet to do different kinds of applications. I am in favour of interviews with people as such, but when they have not necessarily come about by encountering them, it has been more of a quick phone call and asking whether the situation has changed or not, and it is as if it has been acknowledged. Of course, in this context I would like to highlight the data protection policy that has existed in the TE Centres, which has been somewhat hindered by the various tailor-made projects of the municipalities. In connection with another bill, I raised this problem, which was observed, among other things, in the municipality of Juua, when the municipality wanted to organise a recruitment fair for the long-term unemployed and there was no information from the TE Centre about who happened to be the long-term unemployed in the municipality. In that sense it must be thought that if people are to be helped, it cannot be that our data protection provisions between the authorities will then prevent them from being helped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u143	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Satonen for his excellent work in bringing this matter to the debate here in the great Chamber of Parliament. Before I got to Parliament, I was the deputy mayor in charge of employment management in the City of Tampere, and even then we had together across party boundaries to find ways to deal with high unemployment and reform employment management procedures. This was the case, and then, as part of the Government's pilot culture programme, this experiment was launched, which has now produced excellent results. For example, until a few years ago Tampere was one of Finland’s unemployment capitals, but the trend has now been quite different. Above all, when you look at experiments at the national level, as Mr Satonen writes in his initiative, more than 10,000 people have been employed through these experiments. It is important, and it is precisely handicraft-based employment care, that everyone should be confronted as an individual and that they should be provided with the most appropriate service. Looking at the timetable for regional reform, which has been quite flexible in recent years, I think it is quite justified that efforts should also be made to continue these experiments in such a way that we do not accidentally lose the know-how that has now been acquired. The regional elections were originally to be held in April 2017, then in October 2017, then during the presidential election in January 2018 and then now in October 2018. Currently, the target timetable is somewhere around May 2019, and it is clear that if and when the regional reform takes some form, the new administration will take some time to organise itself and create effective cooperation channels between cities and regions, for example. In this context, it is critical that we do not lose the work that has already been done. For example, in this experiment on employment management in Tampere, the idea was to dismantle the old barriers that have existed between different organisations, so that national employment management and municipal employment management cooperate more closely than before, and this has certainly made the best possible knowledge available. For example, now that you look at the consultations on the reform of growth services, there has been a great deal of message that the new Act on growth services needs to be refined in such a way that it will ensure that the cooperation between municipalities and the province continues to be smooth. At least I myself would not risk in practice interrupting experiments prematurely, because surely the common goal is to get the lessons of the experiments into good use.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u144	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Satonen very much for this initiative. When I heard that you were going to leave this initiative, I was very pleased because I thought it was a clear signal that reason would prevail, that is, even though the government is now proposing another, it is possible that wise initiatives will also come from government parties. I think Arto Satonen is a good expert on this issue, he has a lot of experience with this during these parliamentary years and he knows the situation. That is why I thank you for taking this initiative and, of course, I signed it myself, as I am sure each of us Pirkanese will be happy to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u147	Mr President! I, too, share the thanks that have now been expressed in this Chamber on this very subject as regards the importance of this legislative initiative. Thank you, Mr Satonen, for bringing this important matter to Parliament. This bill, which you have presented, which has also received strong support across the political boundaries, not only from the whole of Parliament, but also from the representatives of my constituency of Pirkanmaa — we Pirkanese parliamentarians are here to discuss this now, but it is also important from the perspective of the whole country — is very good in terms of content, but also very timely and should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Indeed, the bill would allow the regional experiment on labour and business services to be continued last year, so that, when originally established until the end of this year, since the regional reform had to start from the beginning of next year, this initiative would then continue this experiment until the end of 2020. The government must be commended for allowing these well-functioning experiments at all, but of course the abolition of them now raises major questions and I think it would be very short-sighted, as has been seen from the previous speeches. Mr President! The Government’s objective was therefore initially to make the regional reform start from the beginning of 2019. Now the reform has moved into the future, at least for two years. It seems to me strongly that it may not be fully realised, but it is not in itself the main subject of this debate. In any case, it would be very important that these excellent experiences and results, which have facilitated the employment of many long-term unemployed and the daily lives of others, should not be driven down now, but that the good practices that have been derived from them should be pursued in a good spirit. Mr President! Among other things, the good results of Tampere and Lempäälä have been mentioned here, and, for my part, I can thank Parliament for the very good results achieved in my own town, Ylöjärvi, which is also part of the experiment in the Tampere region, and many thanks have also been made to Parliament for this law. I hope that this initiative will be dealt with quickly and properly, hopefully positively, and, as Mrs Essayah said earlier, this is indeed also about the humane encounter of unemployed people. This should definitely be borne in mind when dealing with this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u148	Mr President! Thank you to the Pirkanese colleagues and, of course, to all the other signatories for the words that have supported this bill. It is true that it has been the aim of the representatives of Pirkanmaa that this experiment should be continued. We have already asked a written question on the subject before this bill, which has been a long path. As far as this matter is concerned, this personal encounter has been well raised here. I have been a long time before I even came to Parliament in my locality, Vammala, now Sastamala, as chairman of the workshop steering group for young people and the long-term unemployed for years, and I have seen the significance of the personal encounter. Indeed, when this personal service is human, but also goal-oriented and genuinely forward-looking, we get quite a few people back into the labour market, and that is really important. In fact, the same ideas that were put into place back then in Vammala have been implemented very far now in this experiment, because, in fact, Regina Saari, the head of the then Vammala Employment Office, is currently the leader of this Tampere employment experiment, which is indeed an experience in dealing with these issues. Of course, he is not doing this alone, but there are dozens of people who have worked very hard here to make progress on these matters. The second point I would like to draw attention to here, which was raised in the speech by Mrs Essayah, was the issue of data protection. That is the key point here, because the problem with the system before these experiments was that the municipalities were responsible for those who had been unemployed for a long time, but they did not get that information until after a very long time. That is the kind of problem that needs to be solved here. Now the future is that these are managed by the province through these pilots, but because the input of the municipalities is necessary — otherwise this issue cannot be resolved — these data protection problems must be resolved so that sufficient information is available to those who actually serve the unemployed personally and are guided by the various employment services. I believe that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u149	Madam President! I was still looking at the signatories of the initiative and drew attention to the fact that the centre and the blue ones were missing from the list. That is why I say in the same spirit what Mr Satonen has already said that, in one way or another, we should find a solution to this issue — if it is not technically through this initiative, then it would be good to find another way — and to look at it pragmatically, because it is very difficult to see the issue of party politics as such. The question is how we will ensure that the best practices are continued, and when the general answer is what the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, has called for the good practices of experiments to be taken into account as part of everyday life, as it were, as part of the routine that we are going to have, or, if we are going to have, a regional reform, then in that situation those routines will be so renewed that I would not want to see a situation where, if not without additional funding, the practices of the experiments will only be taken into the new operating model as such. As Mr Satonen also said, it is important to motivate municipalities to continue to pursue employment management. At the moment, municipalities have had different motivations, such as the so-called fine payments, which have fallen largely to the municipalities, but the model changes slightly with the regional reform. It is good to remember that there was a great deal of competition for these experiments, and the municipalities made great efforts to find new opportunities, and there, especially now, in this experiment in Pirkanmaa, there have been violations of ancient barriers which may not have been tampered with in the past, and that is why it would be extremely important to find a way to continue these experiments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u150	Mr President! Although there are now only representatives of Pirkanmaa here and we have told Mr Satosen's initiative here, I have one happy thing that I forgot to say in my first speech. I was the chairman of the Section for Education and Science of the Committee on Finance, and we had a very good visit this summer to Tampere. We saw a lot there, we experienced culture and education, we heard important greetings. One greeting came from our mayor, Lauri Lyly, who also opened this up to the section and told us about these benefits that Pirkanmaa has had in this experiment. There, then, across the political boundaries, we took a stand as the Section for Education and Science in favour of continuing this experiment, which, in my opinion, was significant. There were wise, good representatives of the government parties there, including representatives of the city centre, and also of wise representatives of the assembly. It was very important because, however, it raised common concern that good, working models should be secured, preserved and not driven down. In other words, with these words and these greetings again, I would like to thank Mr Satonen, and I personally hope that this will soon be a positive decision with this initiative. It is true that there are now wonders in the provinces that what is going to happen. The turn of the year is coming soon, and now we should quickly get a little idea of what the future holds out for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-18-ps-103.u151	Mr President! Just a brief word on what Mrs Parviainen has said: I can see that, in this case, what is essential is not the way in which these practices continue. But if we do not find a way, then there is a risk that just when we are in the midst of a boom and through this subsidised service we will find jobs, we may become part of the services in such a way that it can have an impact on the level of employment. That is why it is very important that solutions should be found here together. Now the ball is going a long way after this initiative by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. — Thank you all for your support.
