ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u2	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to improve the equality of civil servants and to make many changes to the Civil Service Act due to the changing legislative environment that improves the timeliness of the law. The proposal would allow the return to the Defence Forces reserve of those who have applied for the Defence Forces reserve, i.e. those who have so-called supplementary service obligations, without the age limits laid down in the legislation. According to the current Civil Service Act, it is only until the end of the year in which he reaches the age of 28 that he can apply back to the Defence Forces reserve. Thus, at present, those of different ages who are obliged to provide additional services are not in an equal position with each other. In the proposal, the Civil Service Act is proposed to be amended to remove this age limit for 28 years from supplementary service under the conditions of access to the Defence Forces reserve. In the future, it would be possible for the person responsible for the additional service to apply back to the Defence Forces reserve until he has time to begin the additional service. Like the law in force, an application would only be possible once. The proposal also proposes amendments to the provisions of the Civil Service Act on special circumstances. The aim of these amendments is also to improve the equal status of those seeking civil service during special circumstances arising from the decision of the President of the Republic on additional service or the decision on the partial or general mobilisation of the Defence Forces. The proposal proposes that changes to the Civil Service Act be introduced as a result of the reform of the regional and social welfare and health care system by amending the law so that, once the regional and social welfare reform has entered into force, regional authorities and regional businesses can also act as civilian service places. Regional authorities could therefore take on civil service obligations to carry out work services lasting about ten and a half months. The aim of the proposal is to maintain existing employment facilities in the field of social welfare and health care in the area of regional and social welfare reform. The Civil Service Act would also be amended as a result of the European Union Data Protection Regulation and the amendment of national legislation on the protection of personal data. These changes are mainly technical and are not intended to change the current state of the legislation. It is proposed to increase one-off the amount of housing allowances paid by the State to service stations in order to reflect the increase in housing costs since the Civil Service Act entered into force in 2008. The appeal provisions of the Civil Service Act would be amended to comply with the general administrative laws in so far as it would not be appropriate to derogate from the general laws due to the particularities of the civil service system. In addition, some technical amendments are proposed to the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u3	And then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u4	Madam President! In fact, much has been said recently about the development of the Civil Service Act and the need for change. This change, introduced by Minister Lindström, is a good and welcome one. This would also allow civil servants to return to the reserve after the age of 28. It is good that there is also the opportunity to assume responsibility in this way too, if at that point you feel it is right. There is also a strengthening of equal status, and that too is more than welcome. Mr President! However, our overall security will continue to rely, hopefully, on armed military service and the involvement of the entire serviceable age group of young men in military service. Finally, I think it is important that this should not be undermined or shaken in any way, but nevertheless I very much welcome the contributions that have been made to extend invitations to the whole age group, not just to men, but also to women. However, I personally do not support the obligation for women to take part in military service, for example, or, alternatively, in civil service, but I believe that invitations to the entire age group would be a measure of total safety. So the idea would be that at that point we would meet every young man in this country and every young woman in that country, we could tell them about the possibilities in which they could be carrying this responsibility for overall safety and so on. This would therefore strengthen the contribution and potential of every Finnish citizen to the overall security of society. In my view, civil service should also be developed at the same time, at the next stage, towards the provisioning service. This would also contribute better to the overall security of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u5	Madam President! There is talk of equality here, it has been mentioned several times in connection with the discussion of this government proposal — both the Minister and the previous speaker — and it is said that those who are engaged in civil service will now be placed on an equal footing with others. I would ask the whole Parliament about the fact that, at the very best time in Finland, we have the situation that women engaged in voluntary military service as well as those engaged in civil service are in a completely unequal position compared to those involved in crisis management, for example, with regard to their insurance cover. Until the end of the year, they will be completely free of additional insurance cover, which will only come into effect from the beginning of next year. In other words, when this equality is invoked and spoken about here, we should remember that we still have great pitfalls and problems with this equality. Last week there was a very shocking accident in Lapland, a year ago there was an accident involving the lives of three militarymen in Raasepori, and no one is talking here about their position or equality in it. In other words, I think it is good that legislation is being developed and that equality is being taken into account, but there is a major problem here. And even today we will be talking about this in the afternoon. I would now like to ask the Minister: what do you think about this? Are we here in Finland on an equal footing or not, whether military service, civil service or voluntary military service are carried out as women do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u6	Madam President! Congressman Juvonen intervened in very important matters, but a little bit of ice to ask me what might be the motive. The Finns themselves were in the government for a couple of years, and during that time it would have been possible to put this accident law into effect as a representative of the government party. [ Requests for answers from the Group of the Finns Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u7	Responses to the representatives Juvonen and Meri. - Juvonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u8	Madam President! The reason I raised this issue was precisely because we are talking about civil servants and we are talking about equality. I would remind the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence that, while we were in the government, action was taken on this issue. Among other things, I made a bill and also made another bill and took this message forward, but it does not always go as it would have hoped. You know that, don't you? We're talking about money. It was said quite frankly that money and economics are at stake. But it is a matter of law that we wanted to reform both the law of the peacekeepers and the law of the garrison, and both are very important. Let us not belittle anything at all, but when it is discovered and it is raised up, I think that they must be brought up, whether they sit in the government or in the opposition. We are parliamentarians, we are not here to be shut up or mouthed up, but we must raise the issue of maladministration, and when this is particularly the case in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we need to talk about these issues. In that sense, I see it as justified to raise this issue again and again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u9	Mr President! It is now very interesting that when the Finns have made some points here, the SDP has taken it upon itself to point out on a number of occasions that we were in the government at the time. So we were kicked out of the government a year and a half ago. A couple of days ago, Mr Lindtman appealed to us to make an intermediate issue of internal security, that the Finns have been in the government and that they have made an immigration policy programme that has been approved. In fact, most of it has not yet been delivered and implemented. It is very interesting that you always have a party to target, and apparently now it is us. Apparently, you did not receive this letter from the Chairman of the Association of Disabled Persons today. He wishes this law to be retroactive. Our job here is to bring out the voice of the people, even if you, the SDP, do not like it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u10	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u11	Mr President! The Government's bill to improve the timeliness and equality of the Civil Service Act must be supported. We in Finland are preparing to defend ourselves in a credible way, not because we want war, but because we can live in peace when, because of our credible defence capability, Finland is not in favour of being threatened by any state. There is a need for general compulsory military service, and we must not abandon this obligation in the future. However, it is worth developing military service in a more equal direction, and this would be the right step to take in women's invitations. At the right time, women would be informed of the possibility of voluntary military service, and this would probably increase the number of volunteer women in the military service. The Coalition Party believes that the conditions for possible civic service should definitely be clarified by the next government. Possible civil service would not replace universal military service, but it would also make national defence available to those who do not perform military service, and would therefore also allow civil service to be developed in the future in order to serve the overall security of our society more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u12	Madam President! The development of civil service is a sign that Finland is a civilized country. Today is a human rights day, so this proposal is timely and highlights the fact that there are many opportunities in a free society to take part in the defence of the country. Civil service and defence have often been seen as mutually exclusive. However, the will to defend the people who choose the civil service is very high; the way in which they want to implement it is another. I think it is excellent that this law aims to extend the scope so that it can also make better use of the abilities of those who choose civil service, both in terms of time and in terms of skills. This civil service, which Mr Vikman has raised here, is also something that must be taken up in the wider debate in the future, and it would be a good thing for the future government to raise this whole, civil service, civil service and military service to such a joint constructive debate, because we all love our country and want to contribute to securing its borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u13	Madam Speaker! It is a good thing that civil service legislation is updated and military law is also kept up-to-date. It's important. There must be extensive military service in Finland, but it is voluntary for women. But as Mr Heinonen said here, the obligation to invite could apply to everyone. I would like to ask about the news in public, about the fact that, in practice, when compulsory military service is neglected, there will be nothing more: is this the case now, and have you thought of any way in the government to react to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u14	Mr President! The chairmen of the parliamentary groups received an e-mail today, which I am reading here, this is not very long. It begins as follows: ‘In the case of accidents and death, the legislation and corrections relating to accidents anddeaths involving shipowners,reservers and civil servants,which have been presented and Since that time, unfortunately, five accidental deaths have occurred in the Defence Forces, the latest one just recently.” As a military officer, the Association of Disabled Persons suggests that ‘the differentremunerations of persons in the legal service and involuntarily in crisis management duties should be taken It is true that a representative appointed by a soldier who has died in crisis management tasks will be paid EUR 200,000 in compensation, while a relative who has died in an armed capacity will currently be compensated to the tune of EUR 20000 for the parents. They wish that this could be obtained retroactively so that it would be valid after 1 January 2017. He asks whether there is anything more to be done here than a retroactive law. Personally, I do not see the reason why there are two different forms of compensation: 200,000 in one and 20,000 in the other, it is not very equal. If you lose a young boy in the military service, it is really hard for parents, so I don’t really see this difference. I would like to ask the Minister: could you in the government have the impression that this level of compensation would be similar and perhaps retroactive? Is there any other way? And, of course, I appeal to other parliamentary groups here — even though the SDP does not think that this should be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a subject which we should focus on now. This point 3 has nothing to do with what you are talking about, but it is only there in paragraph 6. So I would ask you to stick to this point at all times. And besides, this item 6 is Minister Mattila's sector. Of course, the other minister can answer if he wishes, but I hope that we will stick to what the agenda indicates. — Mr Juvonen, I now turn to the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u16	Madam President! I did not realise that I had asked to speak. — I would like to point out here that there are good speeches, and it is understandable that this is an issue that stirs and stirs emotions, and that is why we want to talk about it also in relation to conscripts and women exercising voluntary military service, as well as civilians. With regard to this legislation, Minister, when the consultation has taken place there, did there raise any questions as to whether there is even more room for improvement in the legislation? It is very important that we retain the possibility of civil servants also being able to perform their services and being treated equally. I also very much welcome the debate on civic duty or the fact that we could target and extend some kind of will and ability to defend the country to all people, that we would all have some kind of skills to act when there is a crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u17	Madam President! To this law in question: I consider this proposal to be a good one and, above all, a good one for developing and modernising the civil service. In this regard, the colleague of representative spoke earlier about the will of the civil servants to defend the country, and it is true that those who choose to replace the military service have a strong desire to be involved in society and they also feel strongly that the duty of defence is part of their duty, even if their convictions do not give them the right to carry a weapon. While I am also pleased to say that this legislation will allow them to return to the reserve if they want to move to the armed service, I would have asked the Minister: are the actions of this government now in this civil service legislation? Is it still to be expected that there will be something else in this important field of civil service during the spring session?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u18	Mr President! There is a proposal to amend the Civil Service Act and it is very good that the government has also taken up the development of civil service. Small changes, but a good start. It is important for civil service to be brought under more equal treatment, specifically with those in military service who are obliged to serve civil service. It is very good that a return to the reserve will be possible after the year of the obligation to reach the age of 28. It must be possible not only to switch to civil service, so to speak, but also, so to speak, to return to the reserve and, in that way, to come to the same line in this service. It is also good that, with the forthcoming regional reform, additional service places will be added to the essential tasks that civil service can provide. But the problem with further development is that we do not have the investment or the actual role to play for those in civil service during exceptional circumstances, and that is where we need reform of the whole service system in the future with the civil service model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u20	Madam President! The operations of the Finnish Defence Forces and the defence of Finland will be carried out in a very efficient and inexpensive way. It is all based on general military duty, regional defence and credible defence, and an essential part of this is a credible and strong reserve that is well-trained. This bill, which the government has brought before Parliament, is a small step in the direction of integrating the civil service side into this whole idea of defending Finland. It is absolutely essential that every person's own contribution is made available when Finland's future or security is threatened. Then we must be absolutely all working for the country so that we can keep the country intact and, above all, guarantee the safety of Finland under all circumstances. Finland’s defence has been based on a strong reserve throughout Finland’s independence, and so it should continue to be. There is a need for universal military service and I would also emphasise regional defence. If Finland goes down the road of defending a country's point better than another, that is the wrong line. I believe that the whole of Finland is defended on every square from where the Defence Forces' own doctrine comes from, and must be strictly held on to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u21	Madam President! Civil service is indeed part of the constitutional obligation to defend the country, although the hard core of national defence is precisely in armed defence. But the clarification of the provisions now put forward underlines the social importance of civil service and I think that it will also strengthen confidence in the civil service system, especially among those who choose civil service to fulfil their defence obligations. Surely there is still something to be developed in civil service. Quite a lot of feedback comes from the fact that civilian service places, especially meaningful places, are difficult to find, and it is important that people who carry out civil service also feel that this is a measure of total security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u22	Madam President! A week ago a survey of the National Defence Information Planning Centre was published, where the will to defend the younger age groups was no longer at the same level, although it was still high. Today, much more young women and men are being released from military service who would like but do not meet the military quality criteria, as the military’s military strength has been reduced. I have long wondered whether the army could develop even a lighter military service, which is not aimed at using armed activities in a war or during a crisis, but rather at training equipment, such as training for the army's equipment, to drive trucks or ground transport machines or similar machines. The army is the last stage of human education in which the employer actually has all the possible resources at his disposal, but those who fail to perform military service are also in a rather poor position on the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u23	Representative Pakkanen and then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u24	Madam President! Indeed, last week there was a debate here about the will to defend the country, and from that point of view I would like to say that this renewal of the Civil Service Act is of course important, but I consider it particularly important that general military service remains our main service for young men. Of course, invitations can be extended to the entire age group for both women and men, but universal military service must be the basis on which Finnish national defence and the will to defend the country must be established in the future. It is important to address the overall concept of safety, and to clarify what it is intended to say in general is of great importance to us all. Here we have just heard that the army is the last place a Finnish youth is caught in many ways. It is also important from the labour market point of view, and therefore the issue of driver training raised by Mr Lehde should also be taken into account in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u25	Now, Minister, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u26	Thank you, Speaker! Let us start by pointing out what is being done here as a change: this puts people seeking civil services and supplementary services on an equal footing during special circumstances and, with these changes, treats all those seeking civil services equally. It's in this background. Then there were questions here that perhaps go more there than that, indeed, to Minister Mattila and perhaps even to some extent to Minister of Defence Niinistö's property, and that is where I dare not jump. Of course, these are good points. I, too, am concerned about the additional insurance cover raised by Mr Juvonen and Mr Mere. Of course, this is a problem, and I do not want to hide anywhere in this. This is a challenging point for us, but, as Mr Kari said in his excellent speech, it is also very difficult backwards to legislate, because then it might be possible to open the gates so that we are constantly in trouble, and then we can ask again whether there is an equal status. But in any way, of course, I do not underestimate this problem; of course, no one does. Mr Vikman raised the issue of civic service, and this is something that really needs to be clarified — and I think that it really would be a place for development — and at least to find out what could be found there, where, in a way, Mr Lehde raised the issue of driver training or training for other heavy goods vehicles. So if you don’t sort of meet the criteria that the army requires, then these criteria could be met. There would be a win-win situation, so that this person would become skilled and secure in the future during the army if he were trained for such tasks. I think it is a very good proposal. Congressman Juvonen asked about the issues raised during the consultation. This Civil Service Act has been in this kind of working group on changes to the Civil Service Act, and some of these proposals have come from there, but there have also come suggestions that are not now being taken forward. For example, this does not include the proposal to make the transition from civil service to military service more flexible. This has been in the working group phase and in the further preparation of the Government proposal. It has been considered that we would have amended the Civil Service Act in such a way that civil service started could also be applied for military service. However, this was not considered appropriate due, inter alia, to the fact that the period of service spent in civil service due to the equal treatment of the persons liable for civil service was likely to have been fully recognised in the calculation of the remaining period of service for military service. This could have meant that the period of service of those who had returned to the military service would have expired before the training of the military officer had been completed in the planned time and would not have been appropriate. Among other things, the question has also been raised as to why the transition from one service to another could not be free and freely for the individual to decide. We have seen the need for legislation to retain some restrictions on the transition between these systems so that civil service and military service can be completed within the prescribed time frame. Nor has a proposal been taken forward that a state authority or business that is useful for overall security be able to serve as a place of employment. This current list of seats in the Civil Service Act already includes, among other things, government and municipal authorities. Nor was there a desire to extend the duration of the additional service, nor does it include proposals to reduce the duration of the civil service. So these things have come up, but they have not been moved forward. I will end with Mr Kari's question about whether there is anything else coming up: I have no information other than that this is the last performance I will present in my office.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u29	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u30	Madam President! I would have liked the Minister to have been presenting this law, but apparently he is not here now — the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, I suppose. After all, this Government proposal provides for the provision of a law on the electronic processing of customer information in social welfare and health care and, if necessary, changes to other laws. There are a huge variety of issues here that relate to citizens' customer information and who is the controller and what are the prerequisites for data processing, and in particular the customer or care relationship here is also important behind it. It has to be ensured, so I would have liked to ask the Minister how it is ensured that the personal data of the customers is also secure and does not flow into the wrong hands, and how the person will then be able to determine for himself who can look at his data and where his data is recorded. These are such things that they affect all of us citizens, especially when this social reform is coming and when we have this register. Today, when you go there to the doctor or get an answer from a laboratory sample or an X - ray, let us tell you that you should take a look at your own answers. This is a huge challenge for us in the future, especially for the ageing population: what is the way in which those who do not have these online connections, for example, get this information — and not only get it but also understand what they are reading, because they talk about diagnosis and then, for example, laboratory tests about different values, and they must be interpreted. So I am concerned about these matters, and I would have liked to ask the Minister about them. But this would appear to be a bit of a familiar package for it to come to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and at the latest there will be answers to these questions. But these things worry me how old people find their information and get their answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u32	Mr President! This government proposal is a step forward and is in line with Sipilä's Government Programme. The aim of the proposal is therefore to support the reform of social and health care and the active role of citizens in maintaining their own well-being by improving information management and increasing electronic services. I am surprised, Mr President, why only now. For example, the preparatory work on the implementation of the electronic archiving of customer data in social services was already carried out in 2008. Unfortunately, again, when we talk about digitalisation, we have managed to lose a decade. It is clear that we will have to be able to achieve faster digitisation in many different administrative sectors, especially in the social and health sectors. The proposal extends the content of the national information system services so that the customer can store his or her own welfare data or information produced by various welfare applications in the Citizens' Own Resources. It is clear that people, organisations and IT equipment must be reliably identified, and I believe that this will not be a problem in Finland, on the contrary. Mr Juvonen may have said differently that data protection can sometimes be too protective. I don't think so. This is particularly needed in the organisation of health care from the point of view of production and implementation, as well as from the perspective of a wider perspective and of the public interest. We have certainly all received messages from all over Finland that unfortunately the information is not moving in Finland. However, ICT solutions and digitalisation are tools for better service for social and health care customers and for maintaining and developing well-being and functional capacity. e-services can also support citizens' ability to maintain their own functional capacity and health. All in all, therefore, a welcome proposal, which must be put into the everyday life of Finns as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u33	Madam President! This government proposal is indeed necessary and very timely. All the services are going into that electronic world, the internet activities. This, of course, requires that one day in this country we make the electronic patient information system available to the patient’s doctor completely. For example, when a patient is on vacation in Lapland, even if a sick leg makes a doctor there, the doctor immediately sees his information online, and the customer's information can be found there. But there are a lot of problems here that I think need to be taken into account. Of course, this project must be taken forward and this law will be adopted, because the former law, which is still in force, has already become obsolete in terms of terminology and many other matters. But the first thing that comes to mind is that when services are developed, this digitalisation also helps to move forward. Take the example of taking an X-ray. If a person is taken an X-ray at a health centre and is not sure of the expertise of a local doctor — say he has not yet experienced a doctor who has worked for a long time — then he will send it to a specialist for consultation that what this image is for. There will be a quick response, so even in that situation the patient will receive top-notch treatment from a top doctor, even if the doctor does not have it in the country, he may be on the other side of Finland. In other words, these systems must, of course, be developed. It helps people to receive the service on time and, above all, its treatment quickly and efficiently, so that those days of illness are as short as possible. Then, with regard to access, the problem — we have to recognise, this is the lazy report by us Finns, and especially by Parliament — is that, in my view, we have, with a rather strange translation of words, justified what the aid of fast broadband access cannot be built in the whole country, so that it has been invoked that the market will do it. We all know that large telecommunications operators are not interested in anything other than large profits. Of course, developing services where there are many customers is attractive
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u34	Mr President! This bill on the electronic processing of social welfare and health care customer information is extensive and contains many important details. I myself would have liked the Minister to have been here to present this and also to answer questions. One question that relates to this is the right of the customer, the patient, to ban the transfer of their data between social welfare and health care controllers, which is an important right, but the patient may not understand what kind of patient safety problems the bans can lead to. I therefore hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will now deal with this carefully, although I know that there is considerable pressure in that committee after this autumn. But for example: The Medical Association has drawn attention to the need for the treating physician to be aware of the patient’s prohibitions regarding information from, for example, the Prescription Centre or the Patient Information Archive. Even if the doctor knows that some bans have been imposed, it would help even if he did not know the original information. In Valvira’s view, at least at that stage in the draft, the right to ban was too extensive and would jeopardise patient safety. I would have been interested to know whether these problems have now been adequately addressed in the final draft law and, when the Minister is not present, I hope that this will be carefully clarified in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u35	Mr President! First of all, I want you to know that the minister is at a government strategy meeting. When we in this Parliament usually do not have sittings on Mondays, there is this government strategy meeting. Mr President! Then to this bill: I think the most important thing about this bill is that social services are now included in that national Kanta service in exactly the same way as health data have been so far. It is particularly important for the integration of social and health care. Then, Mr President, in a few speeches, the possibility for patients to ban the disclosure of their data has been taken into consideration. I have looked very carefully at that bill and its reasoning, and I think that there are a great many specific points where it is precisely the fact that the patient can actually deny either the information about the event or the information that goes to a certain service provider. It's kind of detailed in that bill. Mr President! Just like this, a little suspicious part of it happened in the eyes when I studied that bill and its arguments. There are joint controllers, Kela and service providers on certain points, and there may be some kind of conflict, but I think we will discuss and find a solution there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u36	Madam President! Just as Mr Keränen would say that this legislation is a step forward, and above all this is a step forward in the development of information systems for social services, because it has been said in many ways that social services are lagging behind in the development of our health information systems, especially national information systems. Now this will enable integration to be developed, and thus this bill will be a step forward. But this law is also linked to other laws, such as the reform of social and health services and secondary care, and one of the major problems we have had in terms of data protection is how these data protection issues will be developed in the future in such a way that they are good for patient safety and customer safety. In some cases, these particular data protection issues can become a stumbling block in this development work, which is why, if I may say so, special attention must be paid to these specific data protection issues and patient safety issues, which have already been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u37	Mr President! As Parliament's medical representatives have already highlighted the positive aspects of the proposal and, at the same time, the challenges, I would like to continue Mr Kiljunen's reflection on this integration in such a way that, of course, it is good that we have a digital platform in which SO and TE meet. At the same time, it must be said that this data protection regulation is a major challenge for us in Parliament and, indeed, for Europe as a whole at the moment. It has to do with everything we do, and we have to know it and understand it. But, Mr President, now that we have talked about the Kanta service and about the information systems in general, I would also have liked the Minister to have been here himself, because I have the concern that there is very little common development of patient information systems in all this debate and perhaps a longer-term view, because we are now seeing in the regions how many problems we have had. I hope that not every province in turn swallows the same poison pill and learn how to do things in turn, because digitality and technology, however, bring the productivity that we want from the mess and how we get savings. For this reason too, I would like the Minister and Ministers to raise this development of information systems more broadly during this Parliament, because although SoteDigi Oy and Vimana and other actors are now doing things there, I dare say that the overall picture is still limping where Finland is going, what kind of systems, and especially who is doing those systems. Do we always have to buy them abroad, mainly in the United States? Are we not ourselves able to make information systems in the country, which has often been ranked as the world's number one in digitalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u38	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u39	Madam President! When I am not sure whether I will stick to the time limit in my brief speech, I will come to this toilet. — This seems to be quite a routine issue, the application of the EU directive, and that is, of course, the case, but there is both a big and interesting background. The big background is that we are talking about the biggest single cause of health problems: some 700,000 deaths per year in the EU, perhaps some 1.5 million in the whole of Europe, and thousands of people are still talking in Finland. Smuggling is a surprisingly big problem worldwide. Surprisingly large part of the world's cigarettes are smuggled, and perhaps less so is the fact that large tobacco companies themselves have been involved in this smuggling in many ways, as they have been challenged by the EU Commission, among others. This smuggling issue is, of course, linked to tobacco policy through the price of tobacco, in the sense that when we are here trying to raise the tax, industry always says it will increase smuggling. Of course, the price has some effect on this, but it is interesting to note that in northern Europe, where the proportion of smuggling is relatively low, is the highest price of all, and in southern Europe, where the price is low, it is very common. Well, this smuggling issue is one of the issues to be addressed in this WHO Tobacco Convention Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, and it is precisely by creating such a tracking system, track and trace system that could significantly reduce the share of smuggling. After all, Finland has ratified this convention. On this basis, the EU has prepared this issue, and the tobacco industry, which has a considerable interest, has lobbyed on this issue, and perhaps some recall the pressure and demand from the EU parliamentarians in the EU Parliament last year and the fact that the Commission terminated the cooperation agreement with Philip Morris on this issue. Since then, the Commission has developed this monitoring system. After all, industry has offered its own system, which is probably called Codentify, and now I was desperately trying to find out what exactly this system is, which the Commission is proposing, and which is now on the table. Researchers are concerned that this EU system would not be completely detached from the tobacco industry, even if it is not this industry codentify system. However, the Commission assures us that the system is entirely in the hands of the national authorities, and we just have to hope that this is the case and that the Finnish authorities have this in hand. The explanatory memorandum to this bill states that this system will provide a unique identifier that must be provided by a body designated by Finland and that Valvira has the power to intervene. In other words, this technically surprisingly complex issue is likely to be in order, but it is a good thing that the committee is still working on this. In this context, Mr President, it must of course be said that the tobacco situation in Finland has been positively improved and tobacco deaths have been greatly reduced. Daily smokers account for less than 15%, and this development is the result of cooperation between education and legislation. So we are well on our way to a smoke-free and nicotine-free Finland, and it is only to be hoped that the next Parliament will be able to take the matter forward again on the basis of the presentations made by the STM's tobacco group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u40	Madam President! Now that the Tobacco Act is under discussion, I would like to take this opportunity to express my disappointment that the government has not brought a proposal to this Parliament to correct the issue of the ban on balcony smoking, which has been passed by Parliament. With Valuvia, I understand that the ban on balcony smoking has been made unnecessarily complex and highly bureaucratic by legislation, which we have ourselves set up. As a result, few housing companies have so far decided to ban balcony smoking, and many smokers still smoke in balconies and cause significant harm to their neighbors. Today's system is such that all shareholders must be consulted first, then a decision must be taken at the general meeting, but that is not enough, but an application must be submitted to the municipality, which must be accompanied by various documents, apparently a blueprint of the house and other studies. Often, then, the representatives of the municipality ask for further clarifications and only after that are ready to confirm the smoking ban decided on by the housing company with their balconies, all of which will be invoiced separately to this housing company. Well, I understand that such a complex procedure has taken place in order to include certain sanctions against those who violate this ban on smoking. This is just one point of view. I think it is absolutely essential to go in the direction that I understand the unanimous motion of the tobacco group, namely that the housing company itself decides whether or not there is a smoking ban on the balconies in that housing company, and if there are any problems with this sanctions, then, if necessary, the housing company law could be amended so that there is no doubt about it. Another possibility is what a writer in Helsingin Sanomas recently referred to, namely that directly under the law, smoking would be prohibited in the balconies of housing companies. Mr President! Finally, as far as the tobacco tax is concerned, I myself am in favour of shock treatment in this area, that is to say that a very substantial increase in the tax on tobacco will be agreed on the next government programme, because I think that the disadvantage of this as an increase in smuggling is less than the benefit of preventing smoking among young people, above all, by means of that reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u41	Mr President! The question that I am asking myself is something that is not even mentioned in this proposal: the cigarette butts are hazardous waste that endangers health. The particles consist of a plastic filter part, a accumulated tobacco tar and many other toxic substances, and a non-combustible cigarette part that is an extension of the filter. Toxics accumulated in the filter include various carcinogenic PAHs in tar, arsenic, cadmium and radioactive polonium. In Finland alone, this hazardous waste is generated and thrown into the streets, parks, outdoor areas, beaches and other nature by nearly 5 billion pieces each year. It would be good if we were to talk about this at some point too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u42	Madam President! The changes in tobacco legislation in recent years and the increases in tobacco tax have indeed had a positive effect, reducing smoking and, at the same time, promoting public health. But when taxation is being tightened — and perhaps even in the coming parliamentary term, hopefully, it can be further developed — then we must, of course, be concerned about the possible smuggling of tobacco. In that sense, this proposal, which we are now dealing with, is welcome, because it creates traceability and unique identifiers for tobacco products so that this smuggling can be prevented as well. So this is going to be a very good whole in this way. Despite positive developments, smoking remains a very important public health problem. Every year, 1,200 men and 440 women in Finland suffer from lung cancer, and tobacco is the most important factor there. The most common tobacco disease affects the circulatory system, which also results in mortality — one in five heart attacks is caused by tobacco. I myself wish that the proposals of the tobacco group could be brought to Parliament as a matter of urgency. Hopefully, in the next parliamentary term, they will be brought into force in the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u43	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here and this proposal must be supported. I'd take it personally for that lung cancer and smoking conversation. After all, it is not always necessary to be a smoker to get lung cancer. If you think that it still has asbestos exposure during life, then it will add to it, and if you have tobacco and asbestos, it will multiply its risk of getting lung cancer. But also a perfectly healthy person who has not had such a background as a smoker can develop lung cancer. It is one of the worst cancers, because healing is very difficult and it requires recovery. But, of course, treatments have evolved as in all cancers. It is to be congratulated on Finland's expertise in social welfare and health care and research and on the enormous work that is being done there, as well as the fact that we have excellent equipment to carry out various studies in large hospitals, such as Oulu, Kuo-pio University Hospital and here in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in HUS. In other words, it is very important that when a person gets doubt — for example, through a chest scan, when there is a shadow — that there is something strange, he should be able to get there as soon as possible, because the rapid and smooth path of treatment will also help the diagnosis to be correct and the treatments to begin as soon as possible. And even when we have a lot of discussions today about medical treatment and precision medicine for cancer, it is very important that we target resources and resources there so that we can get researchers to Finland and professors can do the extremely important work and find genetic errors and so on. So I would see that in order for us to be capable of cancer — whether it is lung cancer caused by smoking or by other cancers — to overcome this terrible disease and more and more people to cope with it, all the resources to get more information and research. It is no longer a death sentence even if you get cancer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u44	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 19/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u45	Madam President! The main proposals of this government proposal would increase the amount of the guarantee pension, increase the minimum daily allowance under the Health Insurance Act, propose changes to the parental allowance under the Health Insurance Act to improve the status of families with children and reduce the annual share of the medical allowances under the Health Insurance Act. Such proposals are, in principle, to be welcomed. However, I believe that the proposal as it stands and in line with the committee's report is unacceptable. I would like to draw attention to the following issues, and these are concerns of the Finnish Parliament Group, and I have raised them in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health as a member of the Finnish Parliament Group. The Finns of Peru are concerned about the position of the underprivileged and consider that the increase in pharmaceutical costs should be curbed. The cost of medicines, especially for the low-income, unemployed and pensioners, is a significant item of expenditure in terms of total income. In the proposal, changes have been proposed in respect of the initial own contribution to a situation in which the total cost exceeds EUR 576 60 cents — this is the annual own contribution — in which case the insured person is entitled to additional compensation. This can be found in Section 8 of the first draft law. We believe that these proposals are not sufficient to improve the situation of people in need of medicines. The Finnish Parliament Group believes that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health should take the necessary measures to find out how to ensure that even the poor are able to actually obtain the medicines they need. I will present a proposal for a statement on this at a later reading. Regarding the guarantee pension, the Group of the Committee of the Greens believes that pensioner poverty is a serious problem. The income of low-income pensioners almost all goes into domestic consumption, i.e. circulation. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to improve the livelihood of those living on the lowest pension incomes by raising the guarantee pension. According to the proposal, the legal amount of the full guarantee pension would be increased to EUR 631 from the beginning of 2019, compared with the current amount of the full guarantee pension of EUR 624 per month. In view of this, we believe that the proposals for the amount of the guarantee pension are heading in the right direction, but it is not enough simply to raise the nominal guarantee pension. True Finns consider too little increase in benefits for the target group that has built this country and continues to be among the lowest incomes in Finland. Here too I will make a statement. True Finns also worry about institutional care and elderly people. For pensioners on low and medium incomes, we have proposed the return of the mid-term index, and the return of the child reduction to the 2017 level has also been one of our performances, where we can find our alternative budget. [Juho Eerola shows in his hand the alternative budget of the Finns of Peru] In other words, this is an objection from the Finns. We are going to propose an amendment to the paragraph in which we propose to reduce the annual liability to people on low incomes by a sum determined separately by a Government decree. This is just about the reimbursement of medicines. And in the form of draft statements, we will then propose at a later reading that various measures will ensure that pensioners' livelihoods are maintained at an adequate level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u46	Madam President! We Social Democrats are in favour of the proposed increases to the guarantee pension and to the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance for young people and rehabilitation allowance for vocational rehabilitation and the minimum wage limit for resting on disability pension. We also support increases in the minimum sickness allowance, parental allowance, special care allowance and rehabilitation allowance. These are all good reforms. However, we object to the report because, unlike the government's proposal, we propose an increase in the amount of the guarantee pension, which would amount to EUR 805.52 per month in 2019. In other words, the increase in the guaranteed pension per month compared to the government proposal would be EUR 30. In order to ensure that rehabilitation is carried out, we also propose a minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance for young people and rehabilitation allowance for vocational rehabilitation to be increased in order to maintain the level of guarantee pension. In addition, we propose that the maximum expenditure on general housing allowance be adjusted according to the rent index and not according to the more unfair cost-of-living cost index for the recipient. We would also like to draw attention to the basic security cuts made by the government and propose that the government take urgent action to correct the basic security. We believe that, in order to improve the position of people on low incomes, the government should also prepare flat-rate increases for non-priority benefits such as national pensions, unemployment benefit and labour market support. In addition, we expect the government to take steps to prepare for the reform of family leave. Mr President! The government freezes the National Pensions Index mean that without separate level increases, the level of basic security benefits will remain permanently lower even after the freezing. A statutory assessment of the level of basic security has previously established that the level of basic security is not sufficient to cover expenditure on reasonable minimum consumption. The Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe has made a comment to Finland on the low level of basic security in 2015 and 2017. As a result of government cuts, the livelihoods of low-income people have become more difficult. The cuts have been particularly targeted at the unemployed, families with children and students. The income of the unemployed has been weakened during the government term by, among other things, significantly reducing the duration of earnings-related daily allowance and introducing a so-called active model of unemployment benefit, which could also be called a cutting model. The cutter for this cutting model cuts unemployment benefit by at least EUR 32.40 per month from those who do not find a job or do not get active measures according to the terms of the model. In earnings-related security, the euro volume of the cut is higher, at 4.65% in percentage terms. In July to September, 158,000 unemployed people have already been compensated because the activity condition had not been fulfilled. Between April and June there were 151,000. We believe it is important to support human activity in job search and training, but the government model is unfair. In practice, it also means cutting when activity is shown but work or active activities are not actually available or health conditions are not suitable for employment. It is wrong to cut basic security for people who, despite their activity, do not meet the criteria of the active model. We believe that social protection must be based on work and support for human activity, self-development, training and employment, not punishment for these. In a fragmented working life, the human situation varies between studies, different employment relationships, entrepreneurship, family leave and possible periods of unemployment. That is why it is important that the level of security is predictable and that when the situation changes, people do not face unnecessary bureaucracy, late payment or incentive traps. Mr President! Although the minimum guaranteed pension has been subject to level increases that compensate for index freezes during the government period, the position of non-guaranteed pensioners has been weakened. The financial situation of pensioners receiving a small monthly pension of less than EUR 1400 has deteriorated disproportionately as a result of the index freezes of this government. In addition to the index freezes, social welfare and health care customer fees have been increased by 30 per cent and pharmaceutical reimbursements and Kela travel allowances have been weakened. The cost of housing has also risen during the government term and the support for housing has weakened. Mr President! The Government intends to reduce the level of general housing allowance by continuing to freeze eligible maximum housing expenditure when granting housing allowance. The Government has frozen expenditure at 2015 level in the 2016-2018 budgets. That is something we cannot accept. Finally, Mr President, the government's decision to extend the parental allowance periods available to adoptive families, single parents and plural families is an act of equality from the point of view of equal treatment of families. Similarly, raising minimum parental allowances is an important step. This is something we warmly support. However, these measures remain marginal in view of the need for a wider reform of parental leave and benefits. We expect the government to take urgent steps to prepare for the reform of family leave, and we offer this work as a basis for our own family leave model, at the heart of which are individual and flexible leave for all families, support for women's careers, better opportunities for fathers to take care of their children and the possibility of transferring benefits to parents other than the child's, depending on the situation and the needs of the family. Mr President! That is why we have tabled an objection to the proposal that, on the basis of the above, we propose that the first, fourth, sixth and seventh draft laws be adopted in accordance with the committee's report, that 2. the draft law will otherwise be adopted in accordance with the committee's report, except Article 8; As amended and that the third draft law is otherwise adopted in accordance with the committee's report, except for Article 35 As amended and that the 5th bill will otherwise be adopted in accordance with the committee's report, with the exception of Article 51(3) as amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u47	Madam President! The increase in the guaranteed pension as proposed by the Board of Directors would increase the guaranteed pension by EUR 9 per 25 cent per month, taking into account the exceptional index adjustment for 2019. After the increase, the guaranteed pension would be EUR 784 52 cents per month, as proposed by the Board of Directors. However, the full guarantee pension included in the Act would be only EUR 631 69 cents per month after the change proposed by the Board of Directors. Mr President! The income of low-income pensioners must be improved more than the government's proposal. A well-known increase in the guarantee pension would make it much easier for many pensioners to cope with everyday life. A more significant increase is also justified by the fact that decisions have been taken during this term of government which have increased the costs of pensioners. The Christian Democratic Parliament is proposing an increase of EUR 30 compared to the government proposal. After the increase, the guarantee pension would be EUR 814 52 cents per month, while the full guarantee pension included in the law I mentioned would be EUR 655 87 cents per month after the amendment. This proposed increase would increase central government pension expenditure by EUR 25 million. In other words, the KD Parliamentary Group proposes that Section 8 of the Second Law should: would thus be accepted as a ‘full guarantee pension of EUR655.87 per month. “ So with all the index increases, that would then be the EUR 814 and 52 cents I mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u48	Mr President! I support Mr Östman's proposal. After all, the government's proposal is positive in itself, and it compensates to some extent for the cuts that have been made above all through index freezes, but it must be noted that decisions have also been taken during this term of government, for example on reimbursement of medicines, which have significantly increased the costs of pensioners. That is why we in the parliamentary group decided to propose in our own balanced alternative budget an increase of EUR 30 in the guarantee pension than that proposed by the government. Of course, as Mr Östman has pointed out, it costs EUR 25 million more than the government's proposal, but in our own alternative budget we have balanced it, that is, in our proposal we have also proposed where the money would be taken into this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u49	Mr President! This has already been highlighted in several speeches by the good improvements made to this bill. In particular, these reforms will help people with the lowest incomes and the lowest levels of survival. But, Mr President, in the interests of honesty, I thought it should be said that, in spite of the improvements brought about by this law, the revenue left in the hands of the two lowest tens of income, among other things, will not rise next year. It should be noted, however, that these big goals of the Sipilä Government, the balancing of central government finances and the improvement of employment, have called for the participation of all citizens in the projects over the last few years. However, Mr President, it is important that, in the future, and especially in the future, more attention be paid to these most disadvantaged people in the fatherland, which we as a society will take care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u50	Mr President! That is the end of the speech that has just been made that everyone should take care of the weakest in society. But I do not quite sign it, as Mr Keränen has just pointed out that it would now be so that all Finnish citizens would be forced to volunteer, as if because of this economic situation. Quite the opposite, after all, this period has not seen the good-for-nothing volunteers. On the contrary, the government has had a great deal of money for tax reductions for the most wealthy, for tax reductions for millions of dollars, for example for large forest holdings, for tax reductions for the most wealthy entrepreneurs. There's been a lot of money for these. I would like to know with what logic the government parties think that everyone on an equal footing would participate in these paralytics. President! It is true that good improvements have been made in this law, such as the increase in the guarantee pension, but I listened to Mr Kiljunen's very good, well-founded speech, where he told me what the problems would be, and he also told me about the social democratic choices in which we would make different choices in terms of values. We believe that it would be human, wise to find the heart and also to safeguard the position of the most vulnerable people. For example, these increases in the guarantee pension will leave people with a small pension, except for those receiving a small pension, and according to many calculations, when the government has made cuts, the cost of medicines has been reduced, various contributions have been increased, the purchasing power will be reduced, for example, by those receiving a small pension or guaranteed pension. And, of course, it is not humanly right today and it is not economically wise, because it would be very important for these low-income people too, for example, pensioners, to be able to spend some time there and thus run the wheels of the economy. President! I have had a lot of conversations with people, the last Sunday at Tammela Square, about these questions. Yes, there was a strong message that the more difficult situation is in many everyday lives. Everything is tilting, living is tilting, living is tilting, the amount of electricity transmission charges was wondered at, all this. I have been contacted by the elderly who have been in a very difficult situation as a result of the cuts when the money seems to be insufficient. I think this is really a place for a certain kind of value discussion. The SDP has good proposals in its own alternative budget. They are realistic, and they have brought income and expenditure into harmony and in such a way that, in fact, the income of that small pensioner would increase. After all, we have had this famous goal of having a certain transitional period, time and again, finally ending up with a EUR 100 extra per month for all 1400 earners. In this alternative budget, which is good, EUR 30 would already be realised, as well as one year ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u51	Madam President! There was a call for equality here in the previous speech, and certainly, in my opinion, a single-entrepreneur barber has the same opportunity as you did for listed companies, big business, in the form of a reduction in corporation tax. Why do you want small Finnish entrepreneurs, single entrepreneurs, to be punished in this way? I think it is a very big issue of equality. But this is a matter of fundamental advantages, not so much of these fiscal issues, even though, as a result of this government, the solidarity tax is more stringent than when the left-wing opposition is in power. As regards the increase in the guarantee pension, it has been said here that this has been a very important and good thing. In time it was created during Matti Vanhanen's Prime Minister's term, and it was also raised during the next Vanhanen Prime Minister's term. Unfortunately, last season there was no increase in the guarantee pension, which is of course very unfortunate because we know that raising the guarantee pension to the best extent possible will result in the abolition of pensioners' poverty. It is a targeted improvement for all pensioners in the most vulnerable situation, and it is very important that the net guarantee pension for these people will also be higher after this government term than it would have been for index increases only. And so, for example, is the case with the minimum daily allowance. It was very significant that an increase was made during the last parliamentary term — the opposition, while in power, made an increase of EUR 100 — but, for some mysterious reason, these minimum daily allowances, sickness, maternity and paternity allowances, were excluded, and yet the amount in the state economy is only slightly under 20 million. But for these people, of course, EUR 100 is a very significant increase on a personal level. As a result, this has been a very important issue of equality, that it has been achieved. It must also be borne in mind that this proposal also contains much smaller, individual relaxations and reliefs, how, for example, parents' allowances can be used more rationally from the family’s point of view, for families, plural families, adoptive families. And, I am sure that this will be linked to the next paragraph, but also to the wider debate, the big question will of course be how to better coordinate these minimum benefits in today's working life, so that you can take the job and it will always be encouraging and profitable. When a person feels that when he goes out to do things, it lifts him out of poverty and gives him a boost to activity, that is, what is terriblely important and the best thing for the poor in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u52	There were requests for answers, Mr Viitanen and Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u53	Mr President! As far as this so-called 'pharmaceutical deduction' is concerned, we have calculated information services for the fact that the barber, the small entrepreneur, mentioned by the speaker, is of little benefit. We Social Democrats, of course, also have our own proposals in the alternative budget, which will then be helpful to these small entrepreneurs. But, President-in-Office, with regard to these choices of values and this fight against poverty, with regard to helping people with low incomes, it is only so, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you now have that power and scepter in your hands. For example, on the centre side, I have heard every summer the demands that we now need to combat pensioner poverty, and it has been disappointing in the autumn when we have not seen much of those anti-poverty programmes, on the contrary. Giving an increase to the guarantee pension is in itself a good thing, but at the same time, the cuts cut it into a cash bag minus a sign. This is not the way it is, Mr President, to do something else here and to talk about something else on the weekend.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u54	Madam President! Perhaps it is not worth placing us in goats and sheep to defend a poor cause among those present in this Chamber, at least not the Social Democrats and the Centre — although there are no representatives of the Coalition Party here on the floor level. But for this poor cause and for equality a representative However, I would like to disagree, not in principle, with the corner. You criticized us for the corporate tax bill last season. But now, in your speeches, you have accepted all the new jobs that have contributed to improving Finland's competitiveness, which has been affected by the fall in corporate tax. On the other hand, this reduction in entrepreneurship — or, as we call it today, the reduction in pharmacists — has not been seen, in any way, even proportionally. As Mr Viitanen said, there has been no significant impact on employment or the economy of a small barber-dresser, a stone-foot entrepreneur or a pharmacist's deduction. I'm sure you've made the stock companies and the various investors rich.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u55	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u56	Madam President! I came to this because there are a few things I want to say and I do not want to stick to that three-minute timetable. In fact, the first point I would like to address is precisely the point of view of my esteemed representative, Mrs Keränen, in which she said that the balancing of the economy requires the participation of everyone. We also believe that this is a question of fairness and value choices, because we believe that those who are well-off should also be more involved in these activities, and if people on low incomes, poor people on social security are to be involved, it must be done in a structured and long-term way, so that they do not get caught up in poverty. In that sense, we must say that the government has systematically cut and weakened the most low-income people, particularly those who depend on social security and those who are ill, which in our opinion is neither fair nor human, rather the contrary. We Social Democrats have made and built a long-term plan, a social security model such as this, which would be fairer than it is today, and it would be more proactive and it would reduce red tape so that the citizens themselves can assess their own future and their current situation and thus make even better decisions for their own lives. As a basis for the social security reform, we propose general security, which is, as it were, a three-tier model of support. Everyone is entitled to this, regardless of the form of employment, from entrepreneurs to scholarship recipients and from permanent employees to job workers. The purpose of general protection is to facilitate the coordination of labour income and social security in such a way that the work is always worthwhile for the person responsible. A single general security system will dismantle red tape traps, because the level of security and the basis of assessment are the same for different reasons. It does not cause any interruption or late payment in the event of a change in the reason for the security. Hopefully, during the next term of government, we will be able to get into this kind of common model and together we will be able to develop it. This also involves the coordination of information systems on the basis of causal social security, thereby facilitating the implementation of the overall security structure. We believe that the overall security package can be implemented gradually by 2030. The first steps towards general security can be taken quickly, for example by harmonising the levels of benefits, their underlying income concepts, payment dates and child increases, and by clarifying the determination of qualifying dates. We believe that it is also very important to prepare urgently for an increase in national pensions and a whole programme of measures to examine the situation of low-income pensioners as a whole and to propose genuinely effective measures to improve the income and daily lives of low-income pensioners. We could already do this, and it does not have to wait for the 2030 programme. We also propose that the coordination between national pensions and occupational pensions should be changed so that the income of those receiving a small pension under EUR 1400 per month will improve by EUR 30 per month next year. In addition, the guarantee pension must be increased by EUR 21 per month, which, together with the increase proposed by the Government, will also increase by EUR 30 per month. In addition to these changes, index freezes on benefits must be cancelled, which will also improve the livelihoods of pensioners, and taxation would be reduced for pensioners with low and medium income incomes. In the longer term, the EUR 100 net increase in the income of low-income pensioners in the framework of public finances must be made, and we have also talked a lot about this. Another issue on which the government has taken a stand in this proposal is the issue of housing allowance, and we believe that the main problem with this general housing allowance is the low level of eligible rent compared to market rents. The weakening of housing allowance and the freezing of maximum housing expenditure mean an increase in the share of people's ownership, which is indeed problematic. Many recipients of housing allowance have to fill their low housing allowance by resorting to long-term income support, and this cannot be our objective. The decision of previous governments has increased the need for income support, and in that respect, the fact that primary income has been weakened has pushed people into poverty and income support, and in that respect this is certainly not the objective of those joint efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u57	Madam President! I did not say that lowering the corporation tax was a bad decision, as Mr Kari, who was already here, said. All I said was that it did put Finnish sole proprietors in a slightly unfavourable competitive position, given the benefit of the corporate tax rebate to large listed companies, but forgetting these domestic sole proprietors, which are, however, the absolute majority of all our companies, far over 90 per cent. They are domestic, small businesses, and for them too, the 5% is a very important and important issue. I am therefore a little surprised at the way in which the opposition is taking this issue in a ridiculous and trivial way. Of course, the government will not be able to choose the time in which to come to power and the legacy that will be gained. There are certainly always good things that the previous ones have done and what they will do, and they are also influenced by the economic cycles of the international economy. However, during this parliamentary term, the end result will be that more and more people have been employed — more than 120,000 people — and, unfortunately, last season the figure was slightly different. Of course, this is about the increases in minimum benefits and their adjustments, which are very important, and I am grateful that the centre-led government has now brought them and has made, for example, an increase in the minimum daily allowance of EUR 100, which has not been made in the past. History here is that earlier this same increase was made in Vanhanen's second government, but then it was torn apart again, and now it has been brought to the same level. This has also been pointed out by a number of researchers, and this is a very important issue. It is great that now, with this proposal, when the government has in fact raised the guarantee pension every year, there is positive talk of guaranteed pensions on the side of the Chamber. As we know, it is the most effective and detailed measure to keep pace with pensioner poverty. It is important that the improvement of the level of guarantee pension should also be continued in the future in the same way as has now been done. That is a very important point. I am grateful that it has been possible to improve the situation of guaranteed pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u58	Madam President! Although we have criticised and criticise the government for not raising the guarantee pension to a sufficient degree in this context to compensate for the negative measures that have been taken against pensioners, I would nevertheless like to highlight one of the amendments which I consider to be very important, albeit a relatively small group, and which I acknowledge to the government. This proposal is now giving up the minimum sickness allowance for the current 55-day qualifying period. This is the kind of flaw that was committed in 1996. By the way, the Social Democrats were the Prime Minister's party. In fact, the right to sickness allowance — including the minimum sickness allowance — was completely abolished from the incomeless and low-income earners, and the project was justified by the fact that if a person does not have a healthy income he does not need it when he is sick. Well, in 2002, the law was relaxed so that it became this 55-day crest, but it is very unreasonable and very inhuman if you think of people, such as housewives or students who have been confronted with this, that they really have to wait 55 days before they receive any minimum sickness allowance. Indeed, for this, I would like to thank the government now for correcting this problem in connection with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u59	Madam President! The fact that the guarantee pension is being increased — I do not know, or I have been blindfolded, that anyone here has laughed or thought that this should not be done. Yes, everyone in this Chamber, at least for the moment, has agreed that this should be done. But the government’s proposal is not sufficient, and it has led to protests that it should have been raised earlier. But what this government has done and what is currently very exceptional is that, for the first time ever throughout the existence of this current pension system, national pensions have been cut by freezing the indexes. This has not been possible for any government, not even in the '90s, when the country's economy really collapsed. But the present Sipilä government was now able to do this. Of course, the guarantee pension does not apply to everyone, for example for the smallest recipients of occupational pensions, the situation is somewhat different. Then it has to be said once again to this entrepreneurship side that yes, the reduction in corporation tax helped a certain amount of employment and it was good to do it, even though it was painful in some respects. But this entrepreneurship reduction does not seem to help any employment. Probably, at least according to the government's own proposal, the employment effect is zero — zero, no new jobs. On the other hand, we have proposed an increase in the VAT threshold of EUR 30000, but the government has not taken up this, which would actually help the self-employed, these small-income entrepreneurs, the barbers, the hairdressers, the duds and so on. If you had raised the VAT threshold according to our proposal, then this would have been addressed not only in the well-being of high-income companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u60	Madam President! That is where Mr Paatero made a good speech and opened up exactly what I had intended to say. First of all, there is no laughing at the fact that the guarantee pension is being increased. On the contrary, this must be done, absolutely. But the only thing that perplexes me is that here day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year representatives of government parties have always told me in these discussions how impossible everything is, how people are doing very well now and the government has only done good things, and so. But when you go there to the reality, when you go to talk to those people, say, there to Tammelantor in Tampere, people don't feel that everything is all right there, but on the contrary it's said that help, do something that now this inequality is growing and the smaller person is suffering. This is the atmosphere in people's minds. And that's a real worry, that's a real worry. When a bag of money looks like a minus and there is little money anyway, it is certainly not an easy situation or a laughing matter. I really would ask and I would like to see the embryo heart found in the centre party too, because I know that you, for example, have often been called for these embryo values, that we should care about the poor, and they have seen that too much has gone on this period, for example, under the leadership of the Coalition Party. That is what we have criticised here and wanted to make a different choice of values overall. I think it was a very important detail, as Mr Paatero said, that this government has, for example, cut national pensions, which has never been done before, not even Esko Aho has been able to do that, but this Sipilä government does. And in that light, I really do not wonder what the debates are also taking place among the parties in the centre. At least according to public information, there has been a great deal of desire for a slight change in the political course in this respect. President! I'm going to finish with this: When I really listened, as I said, to Mrs Kiljunen’s speech — she also talked a lot about unemployment security and the unfair cuts made to it — it must be said that one has to be mentioned, this active model. It is indeed, as Minister Lindström said, a stone in a bun. I can't understand the point. When applying for employment and other activities and doing things, why do you need a stone there to be baked and then forced to swallow and punish people, active people, for applying for employment and, if not, for it, as a thank you, as a “reward ” for the government’s punishment then for unemployment security cuts? President! I think it is very important that I also sensed that this reform is a great war against people's sense of justice, that these issues should then be discussed before the elections — a debate that any party wants for pensioners or for the unemployed. And I hope that there is indeed a big debate ahead of us from the point of view of inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u61	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 20/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u62	Madam President! In fact, the content of this bill has already been discussed above, and this proposal proposes that the national pension index be frozen to the level of 2018. I drew attention to the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that although the impact of the proposed index freeze is relatively small for individual benefits, it is worrying that the effects of the regulation are most severe for people with low incomes and households. Similarly, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, although accepting this proposed abolition of index increases, notes that these repeated index freezes strengthen in particular the dependency of those receiving labour market support or basic unemployment benefit on income support. That is to say, fixing a reason-based security with means-tested income support easily deepens incentive traps and prevents employment. That is why, Mr President, I consider these concerns raised in the protest to be well-founded. Although the representative of the Christian Democrats has not been able to make his own objection at the table as a deputy, I think it is very well founded that these index cuts and index freezes should be compensated for precisely these low-income groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u63	Madam President! Here I would like to present the objection of the Finnish People's Party. It's number two. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I am the only representative of the Finns of Finland. In other words, I would like to state the following in the explanatory statement: The proposal proposes to adopt a law on indexation adjustments for national pensions and certain other benefits in 2019. In addition, the proposal proposes to amend the Act on the National Pensions Index and the Act on Income Support. The national pension index would be frozen to the level of 2018. The Group of the Party of European Socialists does not support proposals that affect the reduction of benefits for pensioners and families. This reduction in benefits is also mentioned in the Government proposal 160/2018, pages 9-10. On the other hand, the proposal does not include an adequate assessment of the impact of the proposals on the role of citizens for decision-making purposes. Nor has the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health properly taken into account the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states that, according to the report received by the committee, the proposed index freezes together with previous index cuts increase the long-term need for last-minute income support. The same message has also come to the attention of the committee in expert opinions. The True Finns believe that since the proposals with previous index freezes continue to affect the same people and the same population base, this further increases the risk of impoverishment, which we believe should and should be avoided. For we are proposing that these legislative proposals be rejected. Madam President! Indeed, I would like to emphasise that I also think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a rather strong position that people and households with low incomes are precisely the sufferers who are hit by this cutter. This means that government policy will further strengthen the perception that the poor will become poorer and fall into the poverty trap, but then they will want to raise the income support to the hatch and say that it will succeed. Yes, this incentive trap is a very distressing situation, and therefore the Finns of Peru consider that such a bill or index freezes should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u64	Madam President! Again, I would like to raise the objection of the Social Democrats. Mr President! We Social Democrats cannot accept the government's proposal to freeze the National Pensions Index, which in practice means cutting people's basic security benefits. By its actions, the government has weakened the position of people on low incomes, increased inequalities and deepened poverty. The increases in benefits linked to the National Pensions Index have been frozen during the entire Government term, and there has also been a level cut in benefits. Freezing will target all basic security benefits and will cut basic security by around EUR 68 million next year. Year after year, index freezes and other deteriorations, such as pharmaceutical reimbursements and housing support, as well as increases in customer fees hit the most vulnerable people badly. The change in indexation is intended to be permanent and would not be compensated for by subsequent revisions of the national pension index. This will continue to leave the benefits at a lower level. The cuts in the government's term have been the most acute in terms of unemployment security, which has also been cut from earnings-related duration, and whose level is also cut quite randomly by the so-called active model, as I have just said. It could be called a cutter model. National pension and its supplements, widow's pensions, children's pensions, disability benefits, most child care allowances, basic military and housing allowances have also been weakened. It is particularly grotesque in the government's cutting policy to target freezings also on front and veterans. This means that despite the rise in cost of living, our veterans' front and veteran allowances as well as their national pensions and care allowances will be as high in 2019 as they were in 2016. According to experts consulted by the committee, the proposed index freezes, together with previous index cuts, will increase the long-term need for last-time income support and reduce the chances for the most vulnerable households of a reasonable minimum consumption. The level of basic security is low in relation to both income support and the minimum budget. In 2018, the income of the recipient of single-lived labour market support will be around 20 per cent of the minimum consumption considered reasonable. The present index freezes continue to reduce the consumption potential of the recipient of labour market support by between 1% and 2%. In the longer term, the government's repeated index freezes and cuts will shift the focus of social security towards last-place and temporary income support. This development is reinforced by the freezing of index checks on the maximum housing expenditure of housing allowance from 2015 and tying the revision to the cost index instead of the rent index. The long-term dependence on means-tested income support to compensate for daily income also undermines incentives to work, increases red tape faced by the unemployed and thus binds people to a poverty trap, even for generations. Government policy is increasingly based on its own arguments, as Finland's economic growth has been strong since the zero growth in 2015 and employment has strengthened. It should also be noted that in years of weaker growth, the government could also afford to make various tax deductions for well-performing people. We cannot accept the government's continuing basic security cuts, which repeatedly hit the same people and drive people into poverty and last-minute income support as customers. We propose that indexation adjustments for benefits linked to the National Pensions Index are made in accordance with permanent legislation, with a point figure of 1681 for 2019. Mr President! In view of the above, we propose that the first draft law be adopted otherwise than in accordance with the committee's report, with the exception of Article 1 Changed in line with our objection and rejected the second bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u65	Madam President! In practice, then, this is what is happening here, in other words, there is in practice a motion on the table in which the government is cutting pensions — this is the case. This is how it happens. In other words, at the same time that the government visits the house at weekends to tell us, to demand improvements in the fight against inequality and to reduce pensioner poverty, here we are, in concrete terms, facing this proposal, which cuts pensions. This will be the subject of a vote, President, and I wish that conscience would be found. We have been talking here about the fact that the economy has been growing, good, but its growth should belong to everyone, and because its growth should belong to everyone in order to combat inequality, I think it would be at least reasonable and human in this situation to cancel these index cuts, which the government is already doing for the fourth time in a row. If the growth belongs to everyone, now these index cuts must be cancelled. Mr Kiljunen said very well that the top of the list is that it is not enough to cut social security from pensioners, from the index increase — let us also cut the front supplements. So, just once and for all, in your opinion, how do you feel about it now, ladies and gentlemen of the government? We sometimes tried to ask the government, the minister responsible, in advance, whether it could be true that you are now proposing these cuts to the table. The wording with which he described the situation was a bit long and complicated, and then here we said on the benches that we were not quite able to catch up with whether or not this surgery is now on the breast dish. I had the impression that they were trying to say no, but now it hurts. Seriously. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the government, at least do the retreat: cancel these cuts. I would, however, like to see these index freezes cancelled now that the economy is giving the money. We will vote on this. I hope you have a conscience, Speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u66	Mr President! I would also like to point out what I have come across, perhaps more than ever before, because of the cuts made by this government: they have systematically targeted people on low incomes and perhaps older and sick people who need a lot of services — health services, medicines — and this has caused these people to stop seeking health services and to go to the doctor because they have experienced that because of these increases in customer fees they can no longer afford, they no longer have the opportunity to go to the doctor or receive all the treatment they need. Nor do they have the opportunity to buy all the medicines they need and, as a result, a whole new phenomenon has now emerged, at least I personally feel this way: people are suffering from a deterioration in their health and even worse when they have finally had to go to hospital and hospital care, and as a result they have been even longer periods in the hospital, and as a result, when they are on low incomes, their financial distress may even have deepened when they have not been able to cope with these hospital bills, nor have they been forced to pay for home services, and these situations have now become more difficult. This starting point for all of this has come to light when people have felt that if they had gone to care in good time and taken care of themselves, then perhaps those expenses would have been lower, their health situation would have been better, but as a result they have moved to the doctor, fearing the cost of it, their situation has become more difficult in practice, they will be sicker and, as a result, they will have needed more services that have cost them more. So he's gone on the wrong squirrel wheel. This type of impact assessment has not been carried out by the government in its own presentations, but has left people in these particular situations alone, and that is why many people say that they are already afraid of getting old and getting sick and ask what will happen to them in the future, and this is certainly not the aim of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u67	Madam President! Indeed, it is that one has to wonder what challenges and difficulties aging brings to something other than that physical aspect. Yes, there are many problems with living there and with economic survival. Many aged people help their loved ones — there are children, grandchildren — financially, giving their last penny to get close to them, wanting to help modestly and nicely, but rarely complain. Mr President! I would like us women here in Parliament to go into a strong rebellion and fight for us to reverse the index freeze. The situation of an elderly woman with a low income, especially a small pensioner, in Finland is very worrying. Of course there are also men there, but this is pure mathematics, how the pension accumulates: the lower the earnings, the lower the pension, the higher the earnings, the higher the pension. That's how it's gonna be. There are very many people on low incomes, there are former nurses, cleaners, sellers, so their pension is very small. We're raising the guarantee pension. That's a good thing. It responds to the need for people who do not have any kind of pension provision. But what about the little pensioner, the person who has earned his pension, who has worked for decades, and yet does not even reach that level of guarantee pension? I also think that we should talk about the way we value the person who has worked his life, worked heavy shifts, shift work, night work, evening shifts and, on that side, raised the family and carried out these duties. In other words, it seems that the priorities are lost, and yet we women should talk more about this, because there are very many women trapped there in the future. It is also related to ageing: an increasing number of older women care for their own mates, for example, there in the home. So, big questions. We are in the midst of things of infinite importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u68	Mr President! This is a permanent weakening of the daily lives of low incomes. The Greens believe that these government cuts and freezes are not sustainable and should not be accepted. We do not consider it reasonable or sustainable that these savings should be used to discipline families with children, the unemployed, pensioners, students, disabled people, military service providers and sick Finns in particular, while the Government's competitiveness pact with tax reductions favours high incomes and environmental pollution measures with a wide range of tax subsidies. These measures weaken the purchasing power of low incomes, which in turn weakens domestic demand and growth prospects for domestic companies. This is a very reprehensible proposal as a whole. The Greens' representative in the committee has tabled a rejection of the bill and a statement by the Greens in accordance with the entry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u69	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here to eliminate the freezing of the National Pensions Index. What is essential is that, at a time when the interests of our well-earned people are being increased, the low-income ones are still being lumped and cut off and it is difficult to understand. However, bearing in mind that the national pension index is very wide-ranging for low-income beneficiaries, the recipients of family pensions, breast meals, military allowances, basic allowances, disability benefits, basic unemployment allowance, labour market support, child allowances, child care allowances and minimum daily allowances for sickness insurance are disproportionate. Remember, too, what that practical effect has been. I checked with Kela a couple of weeks ago: up to now, national pension freezes have caused 26,000 pensioners to fall below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u74	Mr President! It is unacceptable to freeze the National Pensions Index. This has a direct impact on the most vulnerable, and, as the speaker has said earlier, it will push the people of another group below the poverty line. This is also a question of equality, because these pensions are often the lowest for women's pensions, and that is one of the reasons why we should have a family leave reform. Prime Minister Sipilä has said that at the beginning of the period, when the government’s major economic line was decided, the outlook for the economy was worse and he felt that cuts had to be made. Now, however, we have heard many times about how much better the situation in Finland is, how much better it is for us financially, how much more employment has improved. At the moment, there is no longer any basis for such an operation. In particular, given the current economic situation and what we now know about our future prospects, the only responsible and human act would be to reverse this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u75	Mr President! The situation of low-income pensioners is already intolerable. These index cuts are poison. Very good speeches have been made here, and now we just need to be able to do things that would make it possible for a small pensioner to get along in Finland. The cost of living has risen, pensions are very low. If you think of a woman who has worked for 40 years who has gone to work before she was even paid her pension, her pension is about 1,300, then the taxes are off. It is not fair — such a small pension. Among other things, the True Finns have suggested that the responsibility for medicines should be completely removed. That would be a small step forward for the low-income population, because quite a few pensioners are taking medicines. But index cuts are poison and should really be addressed, in this folded index, which was then introduced and put into practice. That has been very hard, because pensioners have gradually been left completely behind in the face of wage-earning, and so the situation of small pensioners is, as I said at the outset, intolerable. That is why I would now like to see radical measures taken by the government. From what you have seen, what we have listened to and heard here, at least the opposition is in full agreement with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u76	President! As has been said here, it is precisely these cuts that now apply to those who are the weakest — the long-term sick, the disabled, the pensioners — and, indeed, the front allowance that has just been mentioned on the 'i' side. It occurred to me when I am following the debate that the government parties have now been very quiet here and there are hardly any representatives of the government parties. I would like them to be able to come here now to discuss this matter and, in particular, to justify the fact that, in spite of the speeches that always make sense to the poor, now, then, with regard to this law too — will we vote on it tomorrow? — let us go and cut pensions here in the Chamber, and let us say something else this weekend, and I do not see that as justified. Once again, I would like to appeal to everyone, as the economy is growing, and so it is, that growth must belong to everyone. Now is the chance to reverse these disproportionate cuts. President! The alternative budget of the SDP, which I have already mentioned in previous discussions, focuses, for example, on the livelihood of pensioners. When there was a rather shocking talk of this fall of pensioners below the poverty line, even after this presentation, the SDP’s presentation, which we have made and justified and very seriously put forward, is lifting out 55,000 pensioners from below the poverty line, and that is really important. It was a bit of a shock to me — I must say, President — when a few weeks ago Minister Orpo was in First Saxon and asked him if he was ready to do so, he said quite frankly that he was not. No, there's no money for this. It has already been said here that when money has been enough for the most fortunate and for the tax cuts, why on earth when the SDP is presenting a proposal to improve the position of a low-income pensioner, it is a little ridiculed or seen arrogantly and considered to be mainly populism, which is by no means, because we have well-founded calculations and a real desire to take this goal forward strongly. The question raised in this Chamber also occurred to me that Minister Orpo has a strange almanac when there is never room for a small pensioner in that almanac. When the economy is going badly, there is no room for a small person, because they say you have to save, and then when the economy is rising, then even there is no room for that small person in the almanac. On the other hand, space has always been cleared for the most fortunate. That is what this is all about. Now that this has been made clear and, for example, the position of the Minister for Finance — no room for improvement in the status of pensioners — let us hope that all the parties will bring these up, tell us what the objectives are, and then we will have a big debate also in the run-up to the elections and in the electoral panels and honestly say what everyone wants to promote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u77	Mr President! I feel, not only for my rights, but for my own sake, that I call on the government to cancel the index freezes of our veterans, our honorary citizens. The government has previously heard and withdrawn the wishes of this opposition — and I believe that there are quite a few members of the government’s parliament. I therefore appeal after the Fourth of July that the government should not cut off those to whom we ourselves owe most of our independence. This is where a fellow representative had already spoken of the need to rise to rebellion. However, I cannot recommend rebellion to anyone — a hundred years ago this nation was left with great scars — but I am happy to fight for it here in Parliament to allow veterans of our wars to keep their own index increases. There are no more than a little over 10,000 of them among us, and surely many times they have earned the indexes that will help their lives to go on this journey.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u78	Mr President! There has been a call for the government to speak on this issue, and, of course, as a representative of the centre, there is nothing else that can be changed than what is in it and what can be done by speaking white or anything else but what is in front of it. Of course, index cuts are very regrettable, and this has been the subject of very important debates and debates throughout the popular movement, with a governmentism. And, in fact, on that previous point, on the subject of an increase in basic allowances: After all, when we consider that public finances are still in debt, even though the economy has started to grow, it was decided that the minimum daily allowances should receive a substantial increase, which is considerably more than the increase from the indices. The level increase is more than EUR 80 in pure hands, and it was the value choice that was made at the time of the attempt to distribute resources as evenly as possible in a limited world. Perhaps I should like to point out once again that it is of course important that the basic element of income support, for example, is now proposed to be increased, because the index freeze obviously also applies to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u79	Mr President! The government's proposal to freeze the National Pensions Index for next year is therefore under discussion. The proposal as a whole is very damaging and will be directed specifically at low-income citizens, as has also been pointed out in this committee's report, and the problems that follow from this proposal will be seen, among other things, as an increase in income support. In fact, at the second reading of this bill, the Finns will present a rejection of the motion. Mr President! Like many of the previous speakers, I too find it very difficult to accept this freezing of the front supplement for the Front Veterans with the proposal, and I, like Mr Kari, appeal to the small number of members of the government parties present that, in the aftermath of the Independence Day, you could, if you are not prepared to reject this whole bill, at least cancel these freezes on the parochials. As has already been said many times in this Chamber, the veterans deserve all respect and care they need until the end of their lives. This also applies, of course, to financial benefits. Mr President! I also agree with the views expressed by the representatives of Juvone and Elomaa on the need to improve the status of citizens, particularly those receiving small occupational pensions. The Finns of Peru also have a proposal on this issue in our alternative budget. We are proposing a correction of the folded index for the first EUR 1000 of pension income. This would therefore improve the position of all pensioners, but it would have the best effects for people receiving a small pension. I firmly hope that the government will take up this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u80	Mr President! I had to ask for the floor because I was the one who provoked the rebellion, but what I used this metaphor for was that you, the representative, used the expression 'fight' yourself. When you talk about fighting, I see that I can say here that rebellion. And what do I appeal to? The fact that Minna Canth once said that “a life that can't be killed. “ And I see that we have a woman's voice and we have a woman's mouth and we must also have women's sides and small wages and small incomes. That's where the conversation started. So I thought that the great concern is about the low-income woman, the elderly, the retired woman, how she will cope in the future, often as a family carer. The role is heavy, and I would like to hear more about it here in Parliament. And it is great that we are, among other things, facilitating the situation of veterans with this bill coming from that Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and more and more of them are getting into care. But then again, with this bill, the extra ice in the front is disproportionate. So I would see that it is our job here to speak up and highlight the flaws we see around us. The fact that the rich get rich and the poor get poorer is the truth. When I myself have been a nurse for 24 years, I have seen exactly what the fate of a low-income woman as an old grandmother is like, and it is really brutal and cruel, and that is what I wanted to talk about here. I used a harsh expression, of course, but I understand that no one is going anywhere now to rebel, but it is all right to say these things out loud here. So let's get straight on that line and start talking about how the old low-income woman will fare in the future. It's nothing new. At least I myself have done a great many different parliamentary acts over the last period, and here the debate is continuing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u81	Mr. Speaker! However, I think it was important that Mr Kulmuni, who was here, — and I appreciate that you are here, I think it is really important — acknowledged that there has been a debate on this in the centre field, as we all know, and that there has been a conscience. That is also why it is sad because the Prime Minister, however, comes from this party, that, even in the circumstances of a growing economy, this cut cannot be reversed. I am sure that it is clear, after these departures from Orpo, that this is not what the Assembly wants, but it is a little confusing when neither has Mr Mattila, who is responsible for the preparation of this law, obviously spoken very strongly against these index cuts, at least I have not heard in the public eye. Here, President — and I would like to remind you once again — we tried to ask in advance when this proposal came in, whether this now even applies to the parlours — whether it even applies to the parlours — because once before the government withdrew this supplement, because we had really talked a lot about the opposition, and it was a good decision at the time. However, I now remember that somehow I had a picture of the Minister's reply, that it was a little unclear that I did not really get the idea of whether this surgery was now on the breast or not, and now it has become clear in committee that it is. That is why, President, on such big issues, where we are talking about very fundamental issues, about cuts in basic human security, I think it might be appropriate and it would be reasonable for us to have so many representatives of the government parties here as well as the minister himself, who is responsible for this, because I think it is very important, as a representative, to hear what kind of discussions have taken place with the government when it has come to the conclusion that, once again, we are freezing them, because I remember that there was a debate before the argument about whether we should act differently. Government parties also became such demands, but then, to my disappointment, this happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u82	Mr President! Like Mrs Viitanen, I would like to pay tribute to the two representatives of the Government who are here in the Chamber to defend the government's index freezes. Yes, it does show the spine to be there to defend something that may be a little difficult to hide behind. In fact, I would like you to say here in this Chamber — if not now both of you, at least one of you will — that this war veteran index freeze on this front supplement is unreasonable and unjustified and should be withdrawn. I personally believe and appeal there to the right side of the Chamber, from the President's point of view, that the government should seize this, and when there are no representatives of the Blues or the Coalition Party, representatives of the Government parties, the eyes turn to the brothers and sisters in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u83	Mr President! I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. I would like to make a good speech about the fact that we do have a lot, a lot of low-income pensioners who live on the poverty line and under it, and who each day have to think about how they can organise their lives, and who actually have to wonder whether they are getting food or medicines. Unfortunately, the actions of this government have been very much directed at them and have ruined their position. These index freezes of benefits now under discussion are yet another way or one measure in this list of those most vulnerable. I am delighted that the government has increased these minimum daily allowances. It was an important and good raise, but it is by no means excluded that nothing else could be done to improve the position of low incomes, but that this index freeze is also unfortunate in the sense that this leaves this particular group of people living on these benefits all the time backward and backward in relation to others, so their position will continue to deteriorate. And as I said, it is not a matter of choosing just another way, but both could have chosen, and there would have been alternatives, for example those tax reductions for the well-off, which could have been cut and then targeted at the fact that these index freezes had not been made. After all, the Greens' alternative budget included the cancellations of index freezing and the increases in basic security, not only the good and commendable decision taken by the government to raise this minimum daily allowance, but also an increase in all the daily allowances that would then be at the same level. And I have to agree with the amazement of what is being said here on this front supplement, that, when we had a very united view that we must ensure that our honourable citizens receive the last days of good old age, and when this freeze now applies to this front supplement, I would like to see this at least reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u84	Mr President! Of course, this is not going to change, and this is hardly a very flattering proposal for anyone, but the government front has, of course, committed itself to the fact that the indices are frozen, and with inflation there will then also be a cut of less than one percentage point. But, as I said in my previous speech, there have also been very large debates in the centre about whether it is better to remove the cut, to tie it up to the index, and certainly it will be done again in the parliamentary term, or to what extent they will be put into circulation, given that the state is still in debt at the time of the 20th century, of course is going to be in debt at a slower rate than in the past, and in that sense the major economic objectives have been very well advanced. But then the priority and value choice was to increase the guarantee pension rather. Thus, as a result of this central government, the level of guarantee pension will rise more than it would have gone up by means of indices alone, EUR 18 more pure in the purse, and that is significant. The second point relates to these minimum, minimum daily allowances, which everyone here now seems to be defending, that this is a fine and excellent thing when it is finally taken care of. But why on earth did you leave it there without closing it in the last parliamentary term? This has been a fundamental right issue, and these minimum benefits are rising. Their net increase is greater than the index increase would have been, EUR 80 in pure hand, purse, very significant. However, I would like to remind you that the solidarity tax, as a result of this centre-led government, is more stringent than it was when the left-wing opposition was in power.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u87	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kari. He brought up the surgery of this front man supplement and how bad it is. It is shocking to say that we are talking about veterans of our wars and it has just been Independence Day and then we are doing this kind of surgery. It's inconceivable. Regarding what the Finns of Peru are saying to improve the situation of low income pensioners, Mrs. Savio made a good point about what we are going to say in our shadow budget. And when it comes to low-income pensioners, to these hardworking workers, there is a little similar feeling to Mr Juvonen here, that the rebellion is not very far from here, with these ideas, peacefully yes, but nevertheless. They are the biggest sufferers here at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u88	Mr President! As the number of people in the Chamber grows and hopefully through this kind of embryo spirit — at least some years ago, at least in the last season, with the centre of the opposition at the time, there were still patriots and defenders of veterans and veterans, defenders of honours — so I would like to see it found now in this time, in December 2018, when we are discussing a section in which this group of honorary citizens are cutting indices. In my opinion, that is an untenable solution. And at the same time, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is acting unanimously on a joint legislative initiative to reduce the level of disadvantage. No, this train is not running on all the pots and there is no steam in the Sipilä government if this issue is not taken care of. I very much hope that, as in previous years, the government will withdraw this solution. Our Independence Day speeches will lose ground if this Parliament, this generation, is prepared to cut off the generation to which we ourselves owe most of our independence. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u89	Mr President! I came to this debate a little bit in the middle, but when these emotional, justifiably emotional, speeches are being used here, I would like to remind you once again of the basis on which we started when this Sipilä government started. So the Finnish economy was in a downward spiral. Now, this development in the economy, both in national and in public finances, has gradually been brought to the right path. Just like the representative. My corner here reminded me that the state is still in debt, despite these difficult austerity decisions that each of us, as a member of this government party, has been making, no matter how difficult they are for each of us. This is where we've been and where we're still at. With reference to the three of us in the centre, I am sure I will be brave enough to say on behalf of all of us, when we come each from a relatively small area, that these have certainly not been easy to decide on, and I dare to speak on behalf of all three of us. But in this situation, however, these are the ones that we are going on this front of government. At the same time, however, we will be able to make these improvements, such as this increase in the level of the guarantee pension, which Mr Kulmuni spoke very well about earlier. It is a pleasure to note that the Social Democrats have now also woken up behind this guarantee pension and you have now woken up to defend these basic security benefits, which has not always been a very typical situation for your party. Often that earnings-related security has been your number one priority. But we can see now that you've woken up to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u90	Mr President! After all, at the beginning of the last period, I remember that 100 euros were added to these benefits, and I think that is something that the representatives of the city centre are forgetting. But let me be a little surprised, Mr President, that for four years the present government parties have had a scepter in hand to make value choices and then they will say that, yes, this is a bit of a conscience, but we had discussions, which is more important, the cancellation of index cuts or then this very important increase in minimum benefits. But why on earth are these two against each other? Why is the weak against the weak? Why did the government parties not discuss the fact that, at the same time, there has been room for improvement in the interests of the most well-off by giving very generous tax reductions to the upper income categories, for example, there have been reductions in the taxation of millions of inheritances and all of these which have been listed here many times. We've found money for these. Money has never been over when tax cuts have been made for the good. These are by no means opposed by the government, but then we put small people against each other and wonder if we should give to someone. And this withdrawal of the guarantee pension is a good thing. We don't look down on it. We'd like more than that. But what is the fact is that, at the same time, when these index freezes and other cuts are made that weaken the status of a pensioner, that is what happens, as the Parliamentary Information Service sometimes calculated for us, that the cash bag of the small person receiving the earnings-related pension will have a negative impact on purchasing power. Here we are when we talk about these government choices. That is why, Mr President, I have asked whether there could now be a heart, whether there could be a conscience, that even this breast-dressing operation could be cancelled. It's a very small amount of money. That is a very small amount of money, Mr President, and of course I personally would like to see this fourth cut by the government cancelled, the index freeze. So I really am appealing to it now, and I would like to remind you once again of the debates that have taken place in the centre and in public over many summers when action was called for to improve the status of pensioners. When this moment comes in this Chamber, when this law is also being voted on, then we will vote in favour of the cuts. That is very contradictory, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u91	Mr President! When you listen to those compounded explanations from the demos, it can only be sad. In the last parliamentary term, of course, you failed to raise the small basic allowances. It seems that the demos can't remember it anymore, but it's that selective memory sometimes understandable to a person. I regret, however, that you are using this kind of misinformation, the dissemination of false information, as an electoral tool to tell people what they think is true — which is true. Representative Kari here, almost with water leaking her eyes, told me how little pensioners have been treated. Who do you think caused it to those little pensioners? The Demars have dominated labour market policy in this country for decades. No other party has had anything to do with the negotiations. From there, from those little salaries, it's the little pension. Every time you've been at that toupo table, you've defended to the spirit and blood these tough percentage increases that favor the people you say you're against, and they're oppressing the low-income ones you say you're defending. Here, too, you lead people astray. Those little shopkeepers, the cleaners who are getting a dirty little salary — you've been doing this system for decades, and now you're here for Christmas, you're leaking crocodile tears to people, and then you're going to start saying in public that the center has done something there. There's never been a toupo in the city. Our part has been to read in the magazine what you have decided. The entire trade union field has been in the hands of the demars for decades. There's a left-wing alliance there. I think the Building Union is in the hands of the left-wing union. In other respects, the demos have sovereign control over the whole thing. Then you in this hall are crying salty tears, why this job is for little pensioners. You've boiled this shit, you've boiled it for decades, and now you're trying to make us guilty. We have increased the small basic allowances, which you failed to do, then we have increased the guarantee pension. This model of the slope, what he has shown his eyes shining, that 100 euros will go up with something, whether it was now 1300 to 1400 euros, that pension. Why didn't you talk about the most problematic group we've ever dealt with? Guarantee pensions — that is where the real problems lie. The occupational pension sector is a different world in which you too have been involved through the trade union movement. We know the employment pension laws and those funds and how decision-making is done there. Well, that's not much to do with this house, is it? The decision will be taken there in the procedure under the Employment Pensions Act, in the triangular or whatever the name of the procedure is. However, there those decisions are made, not in this house. I would like you, ladies and gentlemen, to look to that small pensioner one day: what is the real reason why it has a small pension? You yourself have been in favour of big wage increases with percentage increases for those who have a lot, but who have little, the same percentage is very little for them. A high-paid person gets hundreds of euros,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u92	Ladies and gentlemen! The SDP has been asked for answers by exactly the same people who have the actual floor here. It should be agreed that, according to its actual order of business, progress should be made, and the fact that there is now one centre person in between is unlikely to hinder progress in this way. — Next floor, Mr Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u93	Mr President! It is good to have this debate, and it is sad in itself that there are no delegates here, for example, who have been both in the previous government and in this government when they make these decisions. However, it may be necessary to specify that there should be no mere confrontation, that the solidarity tax is a good one. This was done in the previous period and has already been increased once, and after that it is very well-founded. The second thing that could be done at the time is that capital income taxes were also being tackled to bring the capital income taxes and earned income taxes closer together, as they have been in the past. And it should also have been possible to continue this period. It does not affect smaller pensioners or others, but it would have increased solidarity in this regard too. The EUR 100 increase in basic security, which I have just checked, has been in the last period. However, after the big fall of more than 8% of GDP in 2008, it was still possible to make the EUR 100 increase, although the economic situation after the fall of more than 8% of GDP in 2008 was quite different from the economic situation in which the 2019 budget is being made today. And even then, the index of national pensions was not frozen, even at the time of 2008, even though GDP fell by over 8 percent. But now that the economy is growing by several percent, you are about to freeze the indexes of national pensions. It is the debate on this article, this bill and this government decision, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and in the Tax Section, and probably the day after tomorrow in this Chamber, when we vote, this will be the decision. That's what we're sorry for and sad about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u94	Mr President! It is always a pleasure to be a demarst, and it could also be taken as an honour. Now, more specifically, this guarantee pension. It is indeed great that you have now taken this guarantee pension as your business. In the last parliamentary term, however, you did not raise it. Now, for the third time, it will be increased, and that level will be more than those index freezes. Indeed, it is about improving the basic security of the most vulnerable pensioners, their livelihoods, and it is extremely important in a situation like this. This guarantee pension was made during the Vanhanen 2 Board of Directors. It was also attempted during the Red Mule Government, under the first government of Vanhanen, but it did not happen to you at that time. The development of basic security never happened to the demos, when earnings-related security, its development, is always a priority for you. But now you are happy to support an increase in that level. Well, then to this tax policy. Here, Mr Viitanen and others, you referred to the fact that the taxation of the rich has now been reduced and that the rich have now been targeted at the good. Well, how about this corporate tax increase? It is strange now that this reduction in corporation tax, which was implemented during the last parliamentary term, has been forgotten from that side of the Chamber. You have now brought up this entrepreneurial discount. You call this a pharmacist's deduction. This entrepreneurship reduction is also very useful for many small entrepreneurs, many family entrepreneurs, very small entrepreneurs. On the other hand, this corporate tax reduction has brought the greatest benefits to the largest listed companies. You will forget that effectively now when you talk about this tax policy and favouring the rich.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u95	Mr President! When I said earlier that there are three or four of those embryos, those from the centre of values, I do not know whether Mr Honkonen is one of them — it is always appropriate to be and it is appropriate to have a little of this kind of playful playful playful play-playing — but on such big issues I personally would like to have such broad, broad consensus on the issues on which there is consensus. I have at least understood that there is consensus in Parliament on these veteran issues. That is where I listened to Mr Hosko, who, by the way, went to the pine guard immediately after his speech and did not remain to hear the answer when I received this from the President only when I was asked to speak. I hope Mr Hoskonen understands that I was talking about veterans. If he doesn't understand it, I've never met such a cold-hearted downtowner in a parliament that has such an understatement about veterans' affairs. There is Mr Reijonen in the same constituency, a colleague of the Committee on Defence, who works for veterans on these issues. But if Mr Hoskonen experiences our honourable citizen in any way — I do not remember what pair of words he used — as an election herd, then let him. To me, they are honorable citizens, and I will defend them to the last. The speeches of this type, which Mr Hoskonen has made, must remain in their own dignity. But instead of saying yes to this desk, it was an interesting comparison that the biggest sins of social democrats were committed at the desk. The majority of this Finland’s well-being is built on their desks. Where the centre has been recently — the centre has been found in the sauna of the EK,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u98	Mr President! In fact, I was initially encouraged to ask for the floor by Mrs Hoskonen. I was surprised, however, by the number of words in which Mr Hoskonen lives in a miracle world, when the sins of the whole world are being carried by the social democrats and without an awful lot of truth if we were to say it now. And that would require nothing more than to take up our alternative budget, which has been carefully made. Here on page 50, for example, we describe the Social Democrats' model by which we would increase the income of those receiving a small earnings-related pension, less than EUR 1400 per month, so that it would increase by EUR 30 in this instalment, and in addition, we would increase the guarantee pension by EUR 21 per month, which will also increase with the increase proposed by the government by EUR 30 per month. We would give to those who receive a guarantee pension and we would also take into account those who receive a small earnings-related pension, President, because the government is getting constant reproaches. Why don't you come to Tampere, Tammelantori, if you can't hear me anywhere else? The government continues to find fault with the fact that people who receive a small pension have been completely abandoned. All the costs go up and there's a minus sign in the purse, and that's what people are gonna talk to me about. I hope that if you think that the word of the Cape does not work, you will even believe these people who are concerned. This worry is real. We're not making that up in the opposition. All in all, we would like things to be well. And then, as far as these desks are concerned, that's the worst thing about this is that many times we have found things that we Finns are grateful for and well known for in the world: that we know how to build a society together. If you do not believe us Social Democrats here either, believe Lasse of Quality, who, during this term of government, has taken a great deal of a stand on the fact that the government has wanted to throw the good things in the garbage bin in vain and that is where they wanted to bury them. We remember the early stages of kiky: there was a threat of forced law, and the government was already cutting Sunday supplements and holiday allowances, sick day fines were on the way, longer working hours, all this. It is no wonder that, as a result of these coercive laws, the government had jumped into the business locker room so that the hems waved that the competitiveness pact then left this unfortunate scar on the public side of the cut in holiday money, which we also believe should be cancelled now that the economy is on the model that growth could belong to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u99	Mr President! When I came back to the hall — there were visitors from Jämsä — I was somewhat confused about the style of the debate that is taking place here at the moment. It inevitably made me feel like listening to the city centre, that there is apparently a bad feeling and a bad conscience about all the decisions you have made during this regime when you have brought unrest to the labour market. You have also systematically cut social security. You have taken care of the guarantee pension, and that is something we all support. That is a worthy proposal. No one has questioned the existence of a guarantee pension or your related decisions, but in all other respects you have systematically cut people's primary benefits. And when we talk about working life, I must also say that I am proud of the fact that the Social Democrats have been very supportive of the cooperation of social partners and have strongly supported the trilogue in such a way that the social partners, together with the government and Parliament, are able to develop our country together and create a long-term and structured future. Now, unfortunately, this too has fallen under this regime, which is clearly reflected in the lack of trust and insecurity in the labour market. And now that you have systematically also cut off the primary benefits, what has also been extremely psychologically regrettable has been the fact that an increasing number of people have also fallen from the primary benefits to income support, which means that they are no longer able to influence the content and objectives of their own lives in the same way, when income support dependency is very much tied to permanent poverty. This is a strategic line that has now been adopted by the government, and the centre is part of the government's decision-making process, and you are unfortunately not getting rid of it. I don't think this kind of old reminiscing or blaming each other takes this issue any further, but we should rather...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u101	Mr President! Yes, I too believe that sticking to this day and building the future is of paramount importance in the operation of this house. This government proposal we are debating is not really about improving anyone's livelihood, on the contrary, on which there has been much talk. This proposed change is a clear weakening of income and is a major concern of many people on low incomes in Finland – and this is despite the fact that we are experiencing a boom and the economy is growing, as has been rightly praised here. Mr President! A different policy is possible, even by not taking any more debt than the current government, but by making choices on a different basis of value. The Green Parliamentary Group has made its own proposal on what would happen next year in the state economy and how money would be spent. In our own alternative budget, we have proposed more than EUR 600 million in the fight against poverty, including the renunciation of these benefits paid by Kela to the index, the increase in basic unemployment security and minimum daily allowances, the increase in the guarantee pension of EUR 41 per month. We would commit the housing allowance back to the rental index, improve travel and medical expenses and so on — with the same budgetary balance as the government is now making these index freezes. It's a choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u102	Mr President! Where the present government began its work, it was necessary to move on from the situation in which it was at that moment. It is just like a company that is going bankrupt: the future management that is trying to save an attempt to save the swamp will have to start with the situation and not with some happiness that does not exist. When the last parliamentary term ended, the general government balance had deteriorated by EUR 38.5 billion during that parliamentary term. The central government debt grew, the debt of the municipalities grew, the property of the state was sold, and last was this — soon I remember its last. However, these four issues consisted of this shortfall of EUR 38.5 billion, and the gap has now been bridged. There is no eldorado that the new government began less than four years ago. That's where they started where the last bankruptcy estate left it. Your trail here has been cleared up and nothing more. Bankruptcy estate after bankruptcy. Congressman Kari had suspected that his signature would not be appreciated by veterans. I live in the easternmost municipality of Finland, and we have taken very good care of veterans. The municipality's finances are in order and things have been taken care of, and certainly every veteran has received an appropriate service, and there is no compromise on those services, rather than even bringing the services home to those people as efficiently as he can and everything has been done. So that's not even a question. It is clear that when the index is cut, when the state cuts and public expenditure is cut, it has to be tackled, but then, on the other hand, the state finances have also been set up, the finances of the municipalities are now in order. We don't have tens of billions of deficits anymore. At the moment, we can take very little debt. It is also too much, every penny we owe is too much, absolutely too much. Of course, we can dig into the details of the state budget, many details that may have gone worse — it is true — but the big picture is that the growth of public debt has been brought to a halt, that the public finances are beginning to be balanced and that next year it will put an end to borrowing. This is the big picture. There are details, I'm sure there are details where some appropriation has been reduced, even run out, but the big picture is that the debt has stopped, and that is what we have had to stop. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the last day of this month will be the end of the European Central Bank's buy-ins on the market. We will no longer buy corporate or government bonds out of the market, i.e. the 30 to 40 billion a month, which has been pushed into it — the resuscitation of banknotes, someone might say — until the end of this month, the United States has already stopped it. We are now living in a time of real economy. Soon the policy of recovery will cease, and it will certainly anticipate an increase in interest rates. That's not gonna get us anywhere. When the market rate rises, no one knows. American fortune tellers, financial experts, say it's over. The interest rate will rise next autumn, as predicted. Is that true? We'll see that when we celebrate the next Christmas party. But we must be prepared to balance our own economy. Every single percent of the interest rate increases is one billion out of the state budget. There's nothing to do with this right now but put our own affairs in order. In the last parliamentary term, 38.5 billion minus the budgetary side and the budgetary position: is that the thing that we should forget and live like pigs in a twat and spend money and then get smart about cutting something or two? As far as small pensions are concerned, Mr President, when I said in my speech that the demars have had a pole seat on this issue all the time, you yourself have been sitting there as a rooster in the negotiations on the labour market with the EK and have made sure that the paperman has been — the papermen are an excellent group, excellent experts — always a jackpot when a percentage has been raised, but the small, small cleaning lady or assistant or department assistant with a small salary is very little. The gap between those who earn well and those who earn little has grown quite crazy. Why? [Anneli Kiljunen’s interlude] However, I hope that, now that we are moving forward, the next government will have to bear this in mind that we need to continue to raise the employment rate in this country. When this government started, the employment rate was 67.7 per cent. Now it is 71.7, which means an increase of 4 percentage points, which means virtually 120,000 new jobs. That is just under EUR 6 billion in the plus of budgetary balance, that is what it means. And now you're here to attack us for a few euros. It is true that a few euro index cuts have had an impact. But the improvement in central government finances and, above all, in the finances of municipalities has contributed to our being able to manage public finances well and to reform this country. If you imagine that you will be able to go back there somewhere in the past decades, when money was blamed here and there, or to visit the state budget from some Bank of Finland's balance sheet or to take Sitra's money for the fourth time or whether it was, for the fifth time: there is no more time. We must begin to cope on our own, and the absolute goal of the next government must be to raise the employment rate to 75%. Is that possible? I'm sure it's possible. 60,000 jobs would have been created in this parliamentary term, too, if the perpetrators had been found, but there are no such factors at the moment. There are still too many unemployed, and there are too few factors. There's a big problem for the rest of this season that needs to be dealt with in a few months to the best of our ability. Of course, the budgets are practically fixed, but even the little that can be done must be done. But the next government, which will then take responsibility, must have a target of 75% of the employment rate, there is no other way. It doesn't help to say who did it or this. Every person who has got a job is a happy person because he has got the basics of his life in a reasonably good way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u103	Mr President! In the alternative budget of the Finns Party, there is also a lot of work to be done, including for low-income pensioners: the mid-term index for low- and middle-income pensioners. That is what we are talking about here, about index cuts, and I am still repeating what I said: they are unreasonable, they hit the poorest and the worst. Mr President! Just now, I played the uprising that peacefully we are going to rebel, but there are other options. I do not necessarily control those skills — I do not know how to lobby, I do not know how to massage — so I try to present these things here in such a way as to make the voice heard, and I am now raising these matters, for example, with the garrison. I do not know how to lobby, I do not know how to massage, I speak as things are and I hope that the people will hear, the representatives will understand and the matter will be considered important. Just as you, Mr Kari, raised these veterans of our wars as a matter of honour, which is very important, I would like to see our eyes moistened in connection with the veterans, the eyes wet when we talk about the garrison. And Mr Hoskonen, since you were so wonderfully telling me about Dad and Mom, I want to tell you a story as quickly as possible. I don't have these veterans alive anymore, but Grandma and Grandpa have already passed away, but I have my own parents who have been small in the wartime, and when I have asked them about the value base and what is the most important thing and in what way both the veterans of our wars and the garrison are to be treated, it is a strong voice from there, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u104	Mr President! Indeed, all of these projects have been involved in this for four years, and that is how the situation in Finland has been reversed for the better. It is, of course, regrettable that these index checks have had to be carried out. It's true, and no one's denying it here. The most important thing, however, is to raise the employment situation in Finland. There has been a debate here, and the starting point was 68%, and now we are at about 72. The goal for the next term of government must be hard. The work will probably be more challenging, as in the past we have had to make tough decisions. More people have been taken away from the subsidies — by which I mean more people have been employed. This is the objective that we should all have in common in this Chamber, and that is the long-term work that has been presented here during the last term of government has led us in a different direction. Now these measures have been drastic — that is true — but they have brought about a good development in employment. And yes, when one of the things that has been mentioned here is kiky, of course, we must thank them for who entered into the kiky agreement at the time. It was of great importance that this situation began to change. But so much for these promises that, last May, Congressman Rinne promised a hundred dollars increase, but now here Mr. Viitanen promises only thirty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u107	Mr President! In most cases it would be enough to listen to what the representative has said. In fact, I have just told you in more than one extract that this Rintee and the SDP presentation, which we have been serious about, means that in stages, in batches, we would end up with 100 euros for these pensioners who earn less than 1,400 a month. In the last alternative budget, we would have secured EUR 30, now EUR 30 and so on. I told you, Mr President, before I was disappointed that Orpo knocked this guy down on the morning TV. I now hear that, unfortunately, even here in the centre, despite its embryonic roots, this proposal is in some way just an election promise. Why, Mr Centre, you cannot say that this is a good proposal and we could commit ourselves to this if the people give us confidence. This is a good proposal — let us make it possible together. No, I just have to say. Apparently, the author is wrong when it comes from the Social Democrats. On the other hand, Mr President, this is good because the elections are approaching. It is good that now the various parties will tell us what to do after the elections, and it is good to have these debates. Then, of course, it would be better if, before the elections, the coalition rejected the fact that the smallest pensions should be raised, and the centre also seems to knock it out. I'm sorry about that. I very much hope that we will be able to make progress in this, despite the fact that, to my surprise, the centre's attitude to this was so clammy. I was not so surprised by the attitude of an orphan, even though it was a disappointment. But, President-in-Office, I would like to say to you once again, ladies and gentlemen, that when we vote on this matter tomorrow, I would like you to be able to cancel these index cuts, and if you cannot do that, at least do that by canceling this index cut on the front add-on. You know, I was just talking in my previous speech about the fact that this money is not even large. This money isn't even big. The amount of money is, you know, so small that it cannot be seen even in the calculations of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, because its saving effect is so marginal that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health’s own calculations of the possibilities of this savings will end up reading 0,00 in Excel.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u110	Mr President! Mrs Kääriäinen, a representative of my high esteem, said in her article, which was made up of some kind of outgoing interview, that in Parliament the meanest or most unpleasant, even the most repugnant, is deliberately misunderstood and willfully or unintentionally coming along the way. Here, too, Mr Viitas was quoted in a reasonable manner, although Mr Viitanen very constructively explained how these basic safety components can be strengthened step by step in the future. I was also wondering if someone would like to take Mr Hoskosen's speech out of this debate. When I had spoken specifically against cutting the breast dishes, you came to the hall and began to roar about how emotionally appealing I was about this. So did you think that, in terms of the euro, this marginal but extremely large cut in principle of our war on the front is all right for you? [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude] If something gets in my way, it's the veterans' business. Here in central heating it is really nice to defend the government or fight for the opposition by word, but when you go back decades, central heating was far from the generation of those who gave their most valuable for the freedom of this country. I personally cannot understand that the centerers, who have been in this armaments axis for decades, are the government's proposal to defend, such as marginally harassing veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u111	Mr President! Actually, there is only one more thing I want to do. When we in the various committees deal with the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like us to take more account of them today and not just if it is at the end of the statement. Among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a position on this bill in its opinion, which also refers to previous government index cuts and other cuts. It notes, inter alia, that the government has not sufficiently assessed the impact of these cuts on pension and other benefit expenditure and on situations more generally related to public finances. Among other things, reference is made here to the fact that the Constitutional Committee drew these attention in its assessment of index freezes for 2018, i.e. the 2017 proposals that have affected this year, and now the Constitutional Committee takes a similar stance on this. As a member of the committee, I can interpret this a little so that the Constitutional Committee reprimands the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when the government has not been sufficiently able to justify the impact of these cuts and freezes, stating, inter alia, that ‘the committee did not consider it appropriate at that time ‘in 2018’ that the Government’s proposal did not explain the reasons for the savings on basic security. This was of particular importance in the economic Then there are a number of austerity laws that the government has adopted. And: ‘The committee also considers that the government’s So, in the past, we have not paid sufficient attention to the effectiveness of these decisions, but we have overtaken them, and now, once again, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the government has not paid sufficient attention to them and has not given clear reasons for the effectiveness of these cuts, freezings. I would like us to hear the Constitutional Committee more closely, especially when it comes to cuts to the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u112	Mr President! When, in my recent speech, I did not remember the fourth element that caused the gap of EUR 39.5 billion in public finances during the last parliamentary term, so much so that government loans rose by over EUR 20 billion and municipal loans by EUR 7 billion, and then the sale of state assets and the reduction of the state treasury — a total of EUR 39.5 billion. That was the starting point for this parliamentary term and it was not a good situation. The situation was much worse than it was supposed to be, but it was only the starting point where the government started, and the gapp, the gap has been bridged, and we have almost managed to do so. Last season, only central government debt and unemployment grew, and what was raised? Taxes. The worst poison that can be done in terms of employment and the economy in such an economic situation is to increase taxes. It's the worst mistake you can make. Its effect will then be absolutely appalling, and that is what we have seen now. If you think there's some trick that's gonna get this thing done so that it's the fault of the others, tell me where to find it. At least it would be interesting to study it. Secondly, when it was also heard that the additions of veterans with this index cut are decreasing, the fact is, however, that the increases in the guarantee pension compensate in many ways for the fact that it will certainly remain on the plus side. Nobody loses anything. That surgery is smaller than the supplement received. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u113	Mr President! If, in the name of such public conversation, I could suggest that if there is a discussion here, then we will listen to the speeches of others and not sometimes run out of the Chamber and then come back. I would not like to repeat what I have just said about Mr Hoskonen's previous speech, for example, about how we would implement our pension proposal and raise both small occupational pensions and guarantee pensions. Similarly, I would like to see such an interesting story — I believe that it could be very interesting for all the representatives of the government parties — that they could read through these alternative budgets. Seriously, it could be interesting. It would, in fact, be possible, by way of a very small reading, for example, of taxes — which, Mr Hoskonen, you resented and should not be raised — that the SDP would be less taxed on low- and medium-income employees and pensioners than the government collects. Less tax than the government collects. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u114	Mr President! I think it's a little impossible to get a dialogue in the room. The representative comes, the representative goes, the representative is busy. I understand myself, as a representative, that this is going to take place, but I do not understand — as Mr Viitanen has well said here — that a great deal of truth will be given about another speaker's speech, which was not even there to hear himself, and after the time comes to reply, let us go down the hall. Well, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament have a lot of development, and the first developers are ourselves. For my part, I shall end here. As far as I am concerned, the point is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u115	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 24/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u116	Mr President! Just a few words about this, because we Social Democrats also have a few comments on this government proposal. All in all, it is about such aggressive tax planning and combating it. We all know that the Social Democrats have spoken very much on this issue, and not only have they spoken, Mr President. We also have very programmed work on how and how to combat tax planning and, on the whole, pure tax evasion. The intermediate Community law therefore addresses the use of so-called "subscribe companies" registered in low-tax countries in tax planning. As such, this law has been in force since 95 C.E., and its purpose is very good. Now it is changing because the minimum standard of the EU tax avoidance directive requires minor changes to this law. All in all, these laws on intermediate entities are a key tool in preventing these shell companies from being set up across the board and then avoiding tax liabilities. I must say that changes are being made to this, but we do not think that there are enough to prevent any sort of circumvention. So, in a way, you could say in a nutshell that there are not enough improvements in the government proposal. On the other hand, fortunately, it does not have much weakening in itself. But, of course, at this stage, when this legislation is being brought forward, even as required by the directive, we believe that it could have addressed these problems and certain loopholes which still remain in this law. That is why we have protested together with the Finns, the Greens and the Left. There are certain changes to the articles, and then there are also a few statements at the end, which then point to what we think should be done in general. This is, in itself, necessary in order to be able to deal more closely with aggressive tax planning and to make tax avoidance more difficult overall. The problem here is a few points, and one of them is that the government's proposal makes it possible for these box companies to be seemingly hired from 0 to 2 people, a few people to appear there, and as a result, the situation will remain so that this box company will look as if it actually has some meaningful activity and will be able to avoid taxation even after this proposal. Among other things, we would like to correct this state of affairs by means of these amendments to our own articles and our objections. There are no estimates of how much tax revenue is going on because of these loopholes, but yet we are making an estimate that the loss is millions and at least we are talking about tens of millions. In this respect, everyone understands that if we were just talking about, for example, index freezes, which are very small sums of money that government people want to make, for example, for these veterans who have just mentioned their fronts, then if we were able, with such changes, to make stricter legislation that prevents tax evasion and that would add tens of millions to it, then you will understand what scale we are talking about. We were just talking here about lust taxation, and I told and corrected it in such a way that the ordinary employee, the ordinary pensioner, for example, we demars would tax less than the government would tax, but instead we would balance tax evasion opportunities. I mean, it'd really make tens, hundreds of millions more. That is why I consider these matters extremely important, because through these proposals we could actually achieve the room for manoeuvre that we could also use for the weaker person and that would also serve honest entrepreneurs, of course, because most entrepreneurs do not avoid taxes, and it is not, of course, a nice thing for us to be able to do so somewhere and for others to do so. That is also why these issues are very important. From the point of view of our society and of our common future, these are questions of the future, and that is why we have also tabled motions for articles. In other words, Mr President, I shall make a number of motions in this connection, which are included in the protest of the Social Democrats and the other opposition. All in all, there are two amendments to Section 2, Section 3 and Section 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u117	Mr President! I am in favour of those proposed amendments to the paragraph which the representative has tabled. That's the cape above. It is extremely important that our tax legislation is such that it means that we can tax fairly according to the legislation we have agreed in this house. To this end, we also need as complete a practical approach as possible, and that is what these amendments aim to do, namely to tackle more aggressive tax planning and to make tax avoidance more difficult. This would also mean that Finland's competitive position would improve internationally, as it would no longer be possible to obtain tax benefits by transferring activities to low-tax countries. It would also be more difficult to put pressure on such measures, for example, developing countries or other countries that want to give tax benefits to different groups of people, because they could not benefit from tax benefits because in zero tax situations profits would be taxed in Finland. In other words, it is with these draft articles that Mr Viitanen made here that we could improve this government proposal even further, because I believe that we all have the information that we still have a lot to do in this area. Unfortunately, there are always loopholes and, of course, legislation must be ahead of them, and these things must then be brought into the decision-making process a little in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u118	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u119	Mr President! First of all, I would like to make two statements so that, at the end of my speech, I do not forget to say them. So I would like to make two statements on this objection: The first reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requires that measures to improve information are taken in order to make the State Office’s The second statement reads: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in measures to improve the security of the performance of the service.’ Mr President! This is therefore a bill in which, in the performance of military duty, disabled and in the performance of military duty, the next of kin of the deceased would be entitled to a new supplement. A military officer would be entitled to a lump sum of up to EUR 210000 for the permanent harm caused by a military accident or a service disability. As a result of a military accident or service disability, close relatives of the deceased would be entitled to a lump sum in life insurance of EUR 200000 for the spouse of the deceased and EUR 40000 for the child of the deceased. If the deceased conscript did not have a spouse or a child, his parents would be entitled to a lump sum of EUR 20000. Mr President! This bill is a good one, and this bill must be supported, but it is too late. This bill is here because on 1 January 2017 the Parliament decided that the same insurance cover was given to those involved in crisis management, i.e. peacekeepers, and it came into force on 1 January 2017. This was a legislative reform, an overall project with which this military matter should have been dealt with at the same time. In other words, on 1 January 2017, peacekeepers' affairs were put in order, but forgotten, military conscripts were completely excluded from this law. And this is the problem. So the bill is good, and it comes into force on 1 January 2019, but the bad news is that it comes two years too late. For the past two years, the Finnish garrisons, who have performed statutory military service, have been in a completely unequal position from the point of view of equality, considering that the Peacekeepers have been compensated, the garrison did not and accidents have occurred, as in the other tastes of Raasepori's accident a year ago, where three garrisonmen died and many garrisonmen were injured. And now a week ago, on the Fourth of July, we received an unfortunate news report from Lapland when we heard that the garrison had died there. And until the end of the year, the Finnish garrisons are still in a so-called grey state, to put it bluntly. They don't have any additional insurance coverage. We still have a few weeks to do this. Anything can happen, and the garrison doesn't have any additional insurance cover. Even the ships sail with their luck, I said last Wednesday, and I asked you to cross your fingers and your toes, that no accidents happen, and then on the Fourth of July. Why, then, is this bill only being brought now? More than a year ago, as early as summer, June 2017, I took a bill because, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I found it scandalous that the security of those in crisis management was improved, but the garrison was not. Here a representative raised the point that ‘you were passing through the Board of Directors, why you have not corrected this matter’. I tried, I tried. I spoke to the Minister of Defence, I spoke to the Minister of Social Affairs and Health, but apparently the value base had changed and they were not so interested in this. So I was left alone to fight this thing. I made a bill, and it got 116 signatures. That bill is mentioned here in the government bill on pages 6 and 7. You can read the Ministry's answer to that. The Ministry did not give its opinion on my bill until four months later, i.e. it put it on the so-called hat rack to wait. I had to ask myself after the answer: where is the answer? It happened after the Raasepor accident. I was appalled that four months had to wait for the bill signed by 116 Members of Parliament only to be answered. But then there was an emergency. The emergency came from the time of the Raasepor accident, and then in haste it was announced that the law will come and that the law will come into force on January 1st. But what happened? It forgot that there is no safety until the end of this year. And I think this is the thing that should be told here by everyone so that everyone knows that this matter was stalled, that this matter was delayed and that nothing was going to happen. And when we talk about how well the government’s proposal says — and this will remain with the books for the rest of the day, until the future — it says this: ‘A uniform level of security in the crisis management service and in the service of the obliged party is the duty of compulsory and voluntary participation in crisis management. A permanent injury to a young person as a result of an obligation to carry out military service can be a constraint for the rest of his life. The death of the conscript is, of course, a very heavy loss to his loved ones.” So this is what the law is about to come up with. I asked the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, when it was a question of equality, whether an expert in the Constitution should be asked to answer whether this is now responding to this problem of equality, because it is not responding to it. We've been in the dark for two years. There's no insurance cover. From the beginning of the year, insurance cover will come into effect. I made a bill on that, too. It received the signature of more than 100 MPs that this law should be applied retroactively so that these victims, their beneficiaries and injured persons are entitled to compensation. It got over a hundred signatures. And what happened last week when we voted on it? Only 31 people in Parliament continued to support this issue, which I then brought in as a motion for a change in section. In other words, it has already been stated that this law is being applied retrospectively — not passed. I've got a few statements to make. It is only a patch of statements that are there, but I will put them to the vote and then they will be put to the vote again. Then why were the garrisons forgotten then two years ago? Because there was no money. It was said quite frankly that it was too expensive for the economy. But I believe that there was also a much better lobby behind the peacekeepers, who brought their own cause strongly forward. Who has spoken on behalf of the garrisons here? Who's doing it here? Who's telling you? They need equal, uniform insurance cover, and two years back their security must also be taken into account. And I believe that it is very important for the peacekeepers to take care of the matter. [The President knocks ] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u120	Mr President! I myself am a member and vice-chairman of the Committee on Defence, and here there are three other colleagues from the Committee on Defence, and the Committee on Defence gave an opinion on this matter to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I share this idea, as it were, to which Mr Juvonen referred, but I do not liken the military service here to peace-keeping, let alone to the cost of immigration or health care. But I still share the view that this matter would have been included in the Government Programme in 2015, because even then it was already apparent that serving the country as a military service or abroad in a peacekeeping operation when something unfortunate, truly unfortunate happens, deaths that were now seen and seen in Raasepor... In the midst of these great disasters, we are certainly all experiencing powerlessness, in the midst of grief, and of course the question arises as to how then our insurance system will help people in the midst of the crisis. When, on that previous point, these matters were discussed, then, intentionally or accidentally, there was a desire to misunderstand my speech. At that time I referred to the expert consultation in the Committee on Defence, which stated that the difficulty of retrospective legislation is where the limit is put, because our history has been experiencing decades of disasters that have occurred during the peace-keeping work or during the military service. If we put the border back, there will be a situation in which some people will remain on the other side of the border, and that is the problem here. I would have liked this to be seen in the 2015 Government Programme, I didn't. I hope that if there are still gaps in these matters of service in relation to domestic or foreign service, they will finally be able to be filled in in the Board of Directors that will start in 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u121	Mr President! Here already, representatives of Juvonen and Kari spoke well about how necessary this bill is, and I am really glad that it is now under discussion, because, as has been pointed out many times here, when the garrison performs their military service, compulsory military service, or the women who voluntarily perform it there, it is obviously a duty of the State to ensure that the service environment is safe, and if anything happens, then it must be ensured that this insurance cover is adequate. This also raised the question of whether the law can be brought into force retrospectively, and I personally see that although it is quite clear that, in normal legislation, such retrospective laws are always difficult in a certain way where the limit is drawn, in this case there would be a very clear time to be found. Just as the Committee on Defence stated in its own opinion, this could well have been put into effect in a retrograde manner from 1 January 2017, at the same time as the law on compensation for military injury and service disability entered into force, in which case these conscripts were not involved. I really hope that this could still be done, because we know that this unfortunate accident of Raasepor with its deaths was, and now, right after we had talked about this Juvonen bill the last time, and wondered whether it could come into force retrospectively on 1 January 2017 — and we hoped here that, hopefully, there would be no more such deaths — we heard the news of grief on the Independence Day about how the garrison had perished in the service. I personally feel that it is also a matter of small sums of money that it would be reasonable for these families, in which a young person has died as a result of an assignment of service, to pay these compensations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u122	Irade the Talman! Det är är ett mycket viktigt lagförslag, men det kommer i kraft för sent för de beväringar som mist livet i de tragiska olyckorna under sin värnplikt de senasteåren. För ett år sedan i october dog tre beväringar i den hemska olyckan i Raseborg, och nu Senaste vecka dog en let bevering under en olycka på stälvos självständighetsdage. Det handlar om att vi respekterar de förolyckade och deras fabillioner på momma sätt som det är tänkt att det ska goras i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u123	Mr President! Retrospective legislation, particularly in this type of case, is extremely challenging to assess what is the right time, how far back that idea is being taken. I consider this proposal by Mr Juvonen to be in principle correct, but why then is it 2017 the right time? I know that some unfortunate accidents or incidents have been raised here to limit it, but could it still be five or ten years, so that the people who have suffered or perished in the military service or in the United Nations peace-keeping missions will receive this compensation? It is extremely difficult to think backwards about this. I think it is good that the Peacekeepers' case was put in order in 2017, and now the garrison will be in good shape in 2019. Of course, these unfortunate events that have taken place here are such that we can always look back: should there be another year back? Equality in these matters is of course important, but at least I am not able to assess what is the right time for equality in that line-up. The other thing is, then, whether peacekeepers and garrisonmen should be put against each other in such a matter. I do not think so, because both are doing important work for Finnish society. For another, it is an obligation in the form of military service. It is true that there is a voluntary departure for peacekeeping missions, but once the commitment is signed, then it is no longer a question of voluntaryity; it will then change the nature of the mission, so I think that it is entirely justified that the interests of the peacekeepers have been taken into account. It is not a question of which trustees have been better, but, in my opinion, perhaps in the overall sense, but, you can say, the two proposals have come into effect too late in their entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u124	Mr President! Yes, oh, we can, we can, and we can, and we can, and we can think and we can think. We can discuss whether or not and whether or not we should. So why is the deadline presented on 1 January 2017? Because that's when the law on crisis management came into force. In other words, consistently I took a legislative initiative, which I long wondered how I acted in a consistent way, that I did nothing wrong, that I acted in the way required by law, and that is the argument. When the Act on Crisis Management entered into force on 1 January 2017, additional insurance cover should also be in force for military personnel. This was the argument, and the argument also, when I was writing a bill, I put it there that, given the equality perspective, the person performing the statutory obligation is in a worse position, i.e. when the other voluntarily performs the service there in crisis management. That is one of the reasons for the government's proposal. In other words, this equality in Finland, in our Republic, is so important in the kingdom, and it is also in the Constitution. I have thought that, when this is such a big problem, that we will not be able to find out whether this is a problem of equality, then this must be resolved by the Chancellor of Justice. In other words, as a joker card in the back pocket: I will make a complaint to the Chancellor of Justice if this is perceived here as being the right thing to do from the point of view of equality. I don't think we're doing the right thing. Of course, someone else is allowed to make that complaint, I don't have to do it. I'm freezing on this one. I see this with my heart that it would be up to us in Parliament to act in the way that is fair and, in particular, in accordance with the people's sense of justice. I'll ask anyone about this situation, and I'll get a lot of contacts, people will be horrified that how is this possible? Especially when reminding you that there is still time for the turn of the year, the whole time has been in such a state of complete ignorance as to what the protection of supplementary insurance is. And especially when you look at the Armoury website or contact the Treasury, because there too I have been looking for information, there is a great deal of information about what that insurance actually replaces. I have also called a private insurance company, and it is also very difficult to find out if I can take out an insurance policy for my child, which will compensate if something shocking happens. But I think that for everyone, of course. In 91 C.E., there was an accident in Taipalsaari, where seven conscripts were drowned. 2015 There was an accident in Syndalen. There was an accident at the Pori Brigade in Säkylä on October 27th. An accident occurred in Upinniemi on 1 June 2016. A year ago there was an accident in Raasepori in October. There was an accident in Lapland. In my opinion, in a time of peace it is intolerable and incomprehensible that we are in a situation where accidents occur. After Raasepor, the Accident Investigation Board made many recommendations that every accident and accident should be preventable and predictable, and I understand that they have also been put into practice. That Raasepor accident has been a shocking, shocking event, and one cannot even look for the guilty. But in particular: We were also talking here about the will to defend the country, and I would like to remind you of a word such as an inheritance, a tradition that people carry deep in their souls and take forward, for example, after the war. Since the war, generations have continued to mourn and mourn for the young men who remained on the front. I, too, have cases in my family that have been frozen in the front at a very young age, and now, again, when the news came that they found nameplates and bones: will he be back in the coffin now? No, he won't. When people remember these things and respect and appreciate, they also carry this message forward to younger generations, thus maintaining appreciation. Maintains respect for national defence and retains appreciation for the country. Keeps appreciation for basic things, and we also see with our heart. I would see that this is also part of the fact that if you ask the old veterans, they would probably say that it is fair to be so that those boys, the young boys who enter their service, must have insurance cover in order. This two years have been dark, this has been a total eclipse backwards, and I see that this darkness should be corrected, and once it is so difficult to do so with the retroactive legislation — we are now making a change in the adjustment allowance for the pension provision of MPs, in which way this retroactivity will then be taken into account — so this can be otherwise arranged. In plain language, there are Christmas gifts here in Parliament, and I appeal to you all to continue to take the message back to your group so that you can deal with this matter. It is possible to arrange this matter, it does not need to be done by law, but the law is laid down on 1 January 2017. It's the time limit. Unfortunately, it's the time limit. That is what I have written in my bill, and what I have written, I will also speak. And like I said, this is going to move on. I want to see to the end whether the right thing has been done in terms of equality, and that is what the Chancellor of Justice will find out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u125	Mr President! Like Mrs Löfström, I support the proposals made by Mrs Juvose. As we all know very well in this Chamber, the foundation of Finnish defence has long been a general military service, and it has traditionally been relatively safe in Finland during the peace period, but unfortunately serious accidents, even fatal accidents, occur at times, as we were very sorry to hear on Independence Day. There has also been much talk here in Parliament about the weakening of the will to defend Finland’s external security. The Finns Party believes that decision-makers must do everything in their power to ensure that the conditions for maintaining and improving the will to defend the country are in place in the future. We believe that the minimum requirement is that military service should be as safe in the future as it is possible in human terms at all. And there is also another one of the statements made by Mr Juvonen. Mr President! However, despite all future precautions, it is quite likely that accidents will not be fully avoided in the future. It is therefore important that information and guidance on compensation for these accidents should be improved in the future, so that victims of accidents and their loved ones can enjoy legal protection and will be better aware of their rights. This is the subject of Mr Juvose's first statement. Mr President! I therefore believe that both proposals for statements are very necessary and I hope that Parliament will adopt them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u126	Mr President! Now, if a retroactive rule of law is to be introduced, I believe that from the point of view of equality, it must be extended so that it applies to all people. That line can't be 2017 either. Yes, the grief of the loved ones is just as valuable, there has been an accident since 2016 or 2014. Even if there is now a law in force, if we go retrospectively to change the law, equality is the principle of what it is. I'm sure we all have acquaintances close to each other who are affected by this issue. This should then be broadened, and Mrs Juvonen has already suggested that there should be a limit to what has happened during the peace period. That is enough for the Chancellor of Justice to find out, and I believe that it is pointless for us to consider this matter here in the Chamber. Let the Attorney General find out. But then we can’t put a due date on it if we go retrospectively to another person to find out. Why is someone's grief worth more than someone's grief, that's all I want to ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u127	Mr President! It is also very important in the future that there should be general military service in Finland and will be in force and in power. Shocking accidents can occur in the performance of military service, as we have seen recently. They're shocking events. Mr Juvonen has already put forward in his bill that compensation should be paid to these people, who then find themselves in this shocking situation, that the life is gone and that the accident has happened. The bill, which Mr Juvonen did, was really to be supported, and I supported it and the Finns supported it, and so many others did. That bill received a lot of names, as Mrs Juvonen here presented. However, it is now a question of statements made by Mrs Juvonen. Very important statements — I am also very much in favour of them and I hope that they will then be supported by the majority of the representatives. Of course, I do not want to make any distinction between those who carry out peace-keeping and military service and their rights. Both are important tasks. Unfortunately, those accidents happen. Of course, we must take into account this great work done by Mrs Juvose in relation to these people who have been affected by this accident, and especially in relation to their loved ones. I hope that there will be broad support for Mr Juvonen's statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u128	Mr President! First thing I want to do is thank Mats Löfström. You supported my statements and gave a beautiful and good, moving speech, thank you for that. I would also like to thank the RKP Group for having supported me in this protest in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because it has not come from others. So the value base changed there, and even though there were people who signed my bill, there they changed their minds. For this equality: When you, the good government, have been so busy with all the presentations, I raised there the question as to whether, from the point of view of this constitutionality, we could find out whether there are any questions in this equality in the Constitutional Committee, then ‘seek well, after this time we’ve been busy and we’ve had to do this. I think the rush is really bad about these things. But what is the limit of retroactivity? For example, this intelligence law has now been brought to us as a matter of urgency. I am not a long-term leader here in Parliament, but I would like to think that there are always ways and opportunities if we want to. A matter of intelligence law was quickly brought here, and although it has always been said that there is no possibility, there was an opportunity and was brought. Which means this one could find a chance. What is the limit: well, of course, one legislation came into force on 1 January 2017, which was the result of lengthy work. As Mrs Elomaa has said here, these two professional groups, the professionals, must not be pitted against each other, because both groups are doing extremely important work. Every peacekeeper who puts his own life at risk while operating in the world deserves that insurance cover. I am simply pursuing the fairness that led to the two legislative packages and the reform of the law not being brought at the same time. The fact that it is said that it is impossible economically is a bad argument, because at the same time, for example, people who do these bus-synthetics,of which 5.4 million have been talked about in the last week, are given the paperless. The priorities are not in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u129	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u130	Mr President! At the previous stage of the debate, we have already gone through the motions for amendments to the section which we have tabled, so here I would like to object to the proposals for statements made in accordance with Amendment No 2. There are three of them, and I will explain them briefly. So we are talking about projects that require an environmental impact assessment procedure, so I think these statements are very important and I see that they can also be something that a party to the government could be safe to support. My first proposal for a statement is: ‘The Commission requires that the list of projects be evaluated and, where necessary, updated at intervals of I did so that we would always have the best scientific up-to-date information. The committee itself proposed in its report that instead of ten years, a review should be carried out every five years. I myself am proposing three here to ensure that we are able to rely on the latest, best scientific knowledge, so that the Yva procedure can best guide our activities from an environmental point of view. The second proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires that the Council of State prepares guidance on the notification of In my view, the disclosure of ties is a prerequisite for an independent evaluation and then, in a correct and effective way, to guide the activities in an environmentally sustainable manner. It is difficult for me to come up with a justification for why we would not want the Yva impact assessment agents to be made aware of their responsibilities. This statement proposes that the Council of State should begin preparing guidelines to consider all the good and bad aspects and the possible pitfalls of the wolf. I believe that, on the basis of this preparation, we could find guidelines for the declaration of links, which everyone would welcome. The third statement reads: ‘The Commission requires that projects based on the use of high-quality biomass are also assessed for life-long climate impacts,including the After all, in all our activities, we should look specifically at life-cycle impacts. If we are thinking about the climate, at the moment, for example, in our residential properties we are looking at the most impact during use when we should think about the whole life cycle. If we look only at the effects of use, the oldest Finnish house model, the 1000-year-old model, the log building with gravity air conditioning, which lasts for at least a few hundred years, would appear in today's review, because at the time it is viewed, suddenly it is not so durable, even if it is the most durable end. So here we are suggesting that, especially in the case of biomass, and in the procurement of all wood raw materials, the climate impacts for the whole life cycle should be considered, because only in this way can we say what is genuinely sustainable and what is not. In other words, I would like to protest against the proposals for statements, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u131	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal is primarily intended to update this so-called list of projects which lists the activities to be carried out at the start of this environmental impact assessment procedure and, secondly, to harmonise the EIA law in accordance with the current EU directive. In my view, these activities have now been considered in a very correct way, bearing in mind the fact that the environmental impact assessment procedure is intended to take broad account of the overall environmental benefit and the various different impacts. I believe that this has been a success here in taking good account and, at the same time, in simplifying these details of the list of projects. I also think it is important that we have very good authorities in Finland. We have well-informed officials, and ultimately it is up to the officials to assess it, so-called 'Yva'-consideration, whether this is in itself a rather comprehensive and heavy environmental impact assessment procedure if a new activity is to be launched. I myself trust Finnish officials and that they are able to do this. I believe that this report from the committee also makes a good point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u132	Mr President! First of all, I support those statements made by Mr Modig. After all, there were speeches and proposals at first reading to raise a few important points to the Yva annex, for example, so that cattle farms would also be involved when the total number of these cattle is rising to the same figure as those of pig farmers, i.e. 3000 pigs, and then these cattle would be 700 suckler cows and 550 cattle and 300 dairy cows. These are very big figures, as you can see. We would also have liked to have halved the production of such fish farms, from one million kg to half a million kg, when the Yva would have come. Similarly, the precautionary principle should have been applied to the extraction of stone, gravel and sand, as well as to peat production, and in particular to water catchment areas. Indeed, the Yva projects should take account of the best available information and technology, and when technology changes, for example, in energy production — for example, wind power — very quickly, that period should be three years, which is what we propose in the statement. There is also the way in which these commitments and engagements of impact assessors are reported. It should be quite clear that there should be public access to what links those who carry out these Yva studies have with the Yva issue itself. This was a great disappointment that this could not be adopted unanimously in committee. The bioeconomy and the life-cycle climate impacts of various biomass-based issues should also be taken into account in order to be able to effectively then also target the Finnish forest industry to increase the processing rate and thus bring more euros to those regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u133	Madam President! In this regard, Mrs Myller did indeed refer to these details of the list of projects, and we had an in-depth debate on them in committee at the time. As far as this issue of dependence is concerned, I personally believe that in the future these links should be given greater attention in any such process of assessment by the authorities. But as far as these details of the list of projects are concerned, for example these large cattle units, the situation is already the case, as I referred to this official assessment in my earlier speech, that in practice, when such a large establishment, i.e. a barn, builds, the authorities will carry out the consideration of whether this yva process is needed or not, and then that consideration will be made on the basis of what that location is. It may be that the location is such that it has bigger environmental impacts. If it is located somewhere in the middle of a forest where there are no watercourses nearby or so far away, then the environmental impact will naturally be smaller. I believe that the authorities should be given the opportunity to act as they do on the basis of their best and good knowledge, and I believe that they will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u134	Mr President! The Greens agree with this protest made by Mr Modig and, of course, we also support the proposals contained in its objection. When assessing the environmental impact of projects of different sizes and sizes, one of the shortcomings of current legislation is that the synergies between different or similar projects, which are often close to one another, are not properly taken into account anywhere. Each authority in the various licensing and evaluation processes, in accordance with the current legislation, is looking only at its own small sector — or it may be quite a large sector, but it is stared at sector by sector and subject and project by project. It ignores the real impact on the region, on the environment, for example, in the common catchment area of a water catchment area, along a river or otherwise in an area where several projects have an impact at the same time. This is an important issue that should be corrected in legislation to take account of synergies. In the same way, I would like to emphasise that legislation should be more and more geared towards assessing the impact — and it would be more than just an impact on the natural environment, social, human impact and everything — from the acquisition of raw material to waste, waste treatment or disposal to the entire life cycle of the project. Not just one point, a starting point or a middle point, but a start and end and everything in between when assessing the impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u135	Mr President! An environmental impact assessment is intended to determine in advance what effects a large project known to have an impact on the environment might have in order to then take into account in decision-making how these are taken into account and whether the effects are to be taken into account and whether it will then, for example, result in a refusal of authorisation in permit processes, or whether there is a need to make any changes as a result of it, so that these effects are minimised. When, unfortunately, these various projects affecting the environment are subject to ex post justice as to what kind of effects have come and who should be replaced, I do see this kind of yva procedure as excellent in that, when it is done beforehand and carefully, such things can be avoided and, in a way, everyone knows in advance what is coming. That is why, for example, this idea, which is now being raised in this protest concerning these large cattle farms, seems to me to be extremely justified. We know that the growing number of farms and the impact of the large cattle farm on the environment are quite significant. Then it would be good that this kind of impact assessment would have been done in advance, so that then also in the neighborhood kind of know what is expected, what is coming, and can also be taken into account for those effects and make permit decisions possible corrections so that they can be minimised. In North Karelia, I have just visited one large cattle farm, which has been entitled since years ago for what these effects have been, and, for example, in this case, it would have been spared a great deal of effort and inconvenience if such an environmental impact assessment had been carried out and in advance it would have been possible to intervene in these matters. Finally, it must be pointed out that this week the government is a little unexpectedly bringing in an amendment to the Mining Act, which suggests that these Yva effects could then only be submitted as an annex to the permit application when either a search permit or a mining permit is applied for. I find this rather strange because it is precisely the idea that it is possible to know in advance when a permit is applied for, what the effects are so that they can be assessed. If we start with the initiation of applications and the possible start-up of operations and then later complement them with these impact assessments, that is unfortunately a harsh language about the fact that these impact assessments may not be wanted or thought to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u136	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here about this process and the role played by Yva in it. Mr Honkonen here very well said that first consideration is given to whether the Yva process is needed at all, i.e. the location is taken into account. This brings us to one of the main problems of this list of projects. It was mentioned earlier that one of the key problems here is that this does not take account of the synergies between projects. It may be that this is not exactly the location of the individual project that is crucial, but their synergy, especially if we are talking about peat fields. Another issue in which the impact of location is reflected in this list of projects is fish farms. It is a good thing that they are added to this list of projects, but they are by no means comparable to the phosphorus emissions from pig production, for example, because, in fish farming, discharges go directly into the water, while land farming has some filters in between before they reach the water. In other words, I would see for myself that, at this point in time, when we have, unfortunately, been driven down through the period of environmental management — you can say quite frankly — and the possibilities for the authorities to complain have been weakened, the role of Yva will only increase even further so as to ensure in advance that the damage does not occur, because in that environmental damage it does not so much comfort where the right will end up one day, because the damage has already happened. In other words, this is a crucial element in ensuring that we can genuinely ensure in advance that the activities are environmentally sustainable. I therefore hope that Parliament will give its support to a statement aimed at examining this list of projects every three years. And I would also like to encourage Mr Honko to support the statement on ties. All that is being said here is to call on the Government to start preparing, to consider how this can be done in the best and most transparent way possible, because, just as you said, Mr Honkonen, it is all the more important that we ensure that there are no wrong interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u137	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 13/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u138	Madam President! This is a very widely supported bill, and I am pleased that the Committee on Education has produced this report and, of course, that the centre-led government has finally brought this bill to the fore. We have been talking about this for a very long time, for years and years. I myself remember studying at the time and with my friends very much about why the situation has been made so difficult and also unequal for students at different levels of study aid. It is very important that the income limits of parents are now reached for those who live independently in secondary school, and, unfortunately, when it is known that vocational training units can also be quite distant in some areas, this will certainly improve the situation for many young people. In fact, it has been thought and estimated that, with this reform, some 2,000 young people would then be eligible for the study grant and also 800 who had previously had the student grant cut. It is, of course, very important that this proposal involves not only the fact that these self-employed minors now have access to the study grant, but also the fact that they are also entitled to the general housing allowance, which has previously also had an unequal hook from the point of view of secondary students. Moreover, this also involves reducing the impact of grants on income and considering that the grant would not have the same effect as at present. Although there is not a very large number of students in absolute numbers who are affected, it is estimated to be about 600 to 700 such students, as a matter of principle and as a question of equality, it is very important. In addition, the third point in this proposal is that the income thresholds for parents would be increased to EUR 43000 at the stage where the second level is covered. This is, of course, an important issue, which will certainly bring new families into the scope of their children's independent study and, on the other hand, the cutter will also be milder. It is therefore very nice that this proposal has finally come into force, after years, and it will come into force, and it is, of course, wonderful that Parliament is certainly united in this matter. This is a very important issue for many high school students, for many vocational schoolchildren, for many young people who are going to build their own lives on a learning path, even though it may be far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u139	Madam President! This is indeed a good proposal which many of us have long been striving for. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has clearly produced a good report on this, which deserves the same thanks — a concise but good report. This proposal now has not only the social significance of making it possible to improve the conditions of living for secondary students living alone, but also the importance of regional policy, as Mr Kulmuni referred to above, but now, unfortunately, in many areas, several training units have been closed down in the last ten years by joint municipal authorities and other organisers. This has led to an increasing number of young people in rural areas moving away from home while studying at secondary level, especially in vocational education and training, but also partly in upper secondary school. Now that they are fully covered by the general housing allowance, this will certainly significantly improve their ability to undertake these further studies. This development of exclusion is, of course, true. It is visible in large cities, but there are also marginalised young people in rural areas. All the means by which we can lower the threshold to apply for further studies and start our own life to support it are extremely important, and I believe that this can help to lower the threshold somewhat rather than stay at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u140	Chairman of the Committee, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u141	Madam Speaker! This report has been so well presented that it does not have to take a very long time to speak. I mean, really great thing, long-awaited, positive. We have been able to make this report in very good, positive terms. So really important for these students, who live independently, and then really the fact that they can also receive general housing allowance is also a big deal. There have been very specific examples of the fact — and this was the background to the government’s going into this job — that the student is in a trap of income when the parents’ incomes are affected and live, for example, 100 km away from the school, and cannot necessarily receive a student loan, not to mention being covered by general housing allowance. This proposal is, as it were, a continuation of this study material supplement, which was in the debate a short time ago and has already been adopted in this Chamber. This is, as it were, the next step in the same matter. In fact, then, in the same motion, the government suggested that the student's income concept should also be changed so that the grants would no longer be taken into account as income in student support. In other words, these two proposals were brought in as a separate legislative proposal, which has now been discussed unanimously in committee and in very positive terms. It'll be a great day for this to come into effect. There are still plenty of flaws in the daily lives of students after this, but one by one they need to be dealt with, and this is now in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u142	Mr President! Yes, this motion deserves praise for the government. This is a very important reform that has been wanted for a very long time, and it is great that it is finally being implemented. As has been pointed out here, today more and younger people are going to have to go to the second stage behind an ever longer journey. So the students live alone. In the past, parents' incomes have affected the size of the student grant and the general housing allowance that could not be received, and this is an extremely important and significant improvement, especially since we know that high school students are also going further and that there are generally no dormitories available at upper secondary schools, even as in the case of vocational schools. It is certainly also one thing that should certainly be more and more wondered whether it should also be ensured that if we go to secondary school further away from it, how it would be smooth to arrange it. As the chairman of the committee has said here, the government is also bringing in the educational material supplement, but I would like to remind you that, despite these good achievements, a huge setback has been made during this government as regards the income of students. The fact that there was a third cut in student money right from the start, unfortunately, shows that our students are increasingly uncertain. Who dares go to college? Where do you dare go to college? Will you apply to the field of what is the passion if there is uncertainty as to how you will get along both during your studies and possibly after your studies if you need to take out major student loans? The fact that these minor improvements are now being made is a great thing, but the big picture still remains that we need to invest more in education. We must invest in enabling young people to go as far as possible to study and train as far as possible, regardless of the economic conditions they themselves come from, the families they come from and how they can finance their studies. In that sense, I see that there is also a great deal of work to be done for future governments, that we can ensure that every young person can go on a learning path with a safe mind and that it does not cause financial anxiety and prevent education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u143	Mr President! Representative Mikkonen here almost took the words out of my mouth, but indeed the government has earned its thanks for this presentation, which, now, students under the age of 18 who live outside the home, will actually receive the basic amount of this study grant and the housing allowance. This is a very important issue. There are some rather sad examples of how when you go to secondary education you may not be able to live at home anymore, depending on, for example, what you have left to study. It is really fair that this should be done now. However, as Mr Mikkonen said there, this is not going to take the wool over the unfortunate educational savings that this government has made with a rather heavy hand, not to mention these cuts to student aid. This is a good thing, but I hope those bad things don't go away. I would also like to remind you of what we are often reminded of in that Committee on Education when the subject of student aid is dealt with, that we have a very confusing legislation on student aid. It has been changed many times, and it would be very important to have such a comprehensive reform of the legislation on student aid at some point in time. That would be a great need. Finally, I would like to point out that, as we Social Democrats in particular very much hope for the extension of compulsory education to this second stage and we are talking about the obstacles that many young people have in being able to carry out secondary education, this is a good step forward in giving a little more of those opportunities to complete that important education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u144	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the government for this proposal. This is a good and positive reform and a reform in the right direction. As we all remember, over a year ago, a survey of the youth barometer told us that one in four students in upper secondary education stopped their studies specifically for income reasons. In that sense, all the support with which we support every young person in obtaining a secondary degree is positive. In other words, every young person should be able to have a secondary degree regardless of the level of income and economic situation of the parents. But I would also like to point out, and I would like to remind you, that this work is being further developed and that we recognise that a secondary degree is already an undergraduate from the point of view of working life, which will enable young people to find better employment and better opportunities for further studies and self-development in the future. That is why I would like us to have a genuine debate during the next term of government — and to accept the Social Democrats’ line — about having a second degree free of charge and thus allowing each young person to have a secondary degree, regardless of his or her parents’ income or his personal income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u145	Mr President! Many in rural areas have to go away to study far from home. Schools have been reduced. The possibility of general housing allowance for students is therefore a positive thing, really. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs adopted a unanimous decision on this government's proposal, and the government should be commended for this proposal. And we also thank Mr Puumala. He is a very good chairman there in our committee, and we listened to the experts in a very broad and varied way, as we have done on many other issues — we have a good way of doing it there. But we must also remember that, unfortunately, during the last period, there was a huge cut in education. The same game has continued during this reign as well. Those surgeries have been really big. That then, when it comes to this kind of little glimpse of light, it certainly has to be given thanks. This material supplement, which is coming up, is also a good thing. Finally, where there is a lot of feedback from students: when it comes to it at the end of the year and many students have worked hard and the amount of work that can be done when you receive student aid, i.e. whatever money can become paid, it is still quite small, so it is terrible when you have to pay back. I'm surprised I've made so much money. One should be encouraged if one is able to work alongside studying, so that there might be a slightly higher limit to what one can earn during that year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u146	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 15/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u147	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal contains a number of measures aimed at preventing the economic difficulties which these communities which have built housing financed by state aid in the past may and in many places have already experienced in this country. Indeed, the aim of the government's proposal is to prevent these problems, but also to create the support measures that will then be able to react when these problems have already been realised. The aim is also to moderate these interest rates. But, indeed, in this country the housing market has been highly differentiated in recent years. In many places there are places where there are lots of empty homes. It is precisely no size of housing that is sold, i.e. the housing market is no longer working, new housing is not being built, and therefore the housing stock in these localities is not becoming competitive, and this will have a wide range of consequences. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have strong growth locations where housing prices and house prices are rising rapidly, most of course here in the capital region, and for that we still have a number of instruments that will then allow us to support the construction of affordable housing. These measures, once they have been implemented, are always implemented in the time frame when these laws are laid down, and now the need for housing is very different from what it was decades ago. Indeed, the main elements of this proposal are these so-called dismantling eardrums, which is, in practice, the partial forgiveness of these old arava loans to these housing communities. After all, this stock of sensitive loans is gradually shrinking as it was after 2006, when these new bonds were no longer granted, which means that this portfolio of loans is slowly disappearing, but there are localities where these companies are experiencing difficulties because of this particular under-utilisation of rental housing. The worst situation in this country now seems to be in Savonlinna, where there are now a lot of empty apartments built with these subsidies. Now we are going to raise this issue of dismantling, i.e. the portion of the loan to be forgiven from 60 to 70%, which is an extremely good measure. We had a very thorough hearing in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in which we then concluded that this 70% decomposition card is not necessarily sufficient in the most difficult cases, and we must remember that in order to be able to meet certain conditions, and the Treasury will then assess separately whether this partial forgiveness of sensitive loans is justified. In such particularly difficult cases, as perhaps Savonlinna may now be, perhaps some other locality in Finland, even Uusimaa has a lot of vacant rental dwellings for various reasons, then we ended up having to form... And, as we can see from this report, there is a proposal for a committee amendment which then proposes that 90% of this loan may be forgiven under special conditions. I think this is a good addition, because these localities, where there are major problems of this kind, are also in a very difficult situation with regard to local government finances, not only in relation to these dwellings. These other elements are, of course, this demolition grant, which can then be used to assist this rented house community in any real-life demolition of its property, and this can be used for all the housing, houses that have once been subject to these arrondissement restrictions. This certain amount is used annually, and the ARA these grants grant, and this too is a good element to exist because sometimes you have to dismantle in order to build a new one. Many of these problem areas and also the localities, which have some less serious problems — such as those in my own province, where there are localities in which, in the 60s, 70s and 80s, even in the 90s, a significant number of these rental dwellings have been built by the municipality — the situation is that they no longer meet the current requirements, they are in poor condition, they have not been maintained, but, above all, today's housing standards are also very different from what they were for a few years and decades ago. If, as has often been done, these old rental dwellings are then put on the market, then, in the worst case scenario, they are still confusing the less well-functioning rental housing market in the locality. That is why I think it is necessary to dismantle the most indecent housing stock, and that is what this demolition grant is a good element, a better element than the fact that these communities will then go bankrupt. Disassembly is very expensive. In this way, too, the housing market situation in its locality can be improved because it is difficult to imagine that, for example, non-financed new construction would be created in a place where there are dozens or even hundreds of old rental dwellings for sale for semi-free purposes. That is why these proposals from the Government are good. Finally, I would like to mention the removal of this base rate. After all, it is now a rather complex whole, how, under these various regulations, these interest rates on old arava loans are determined. In essence, though, it must be remembered that these interest rates are collected from tenants. They are collected from very low income Finns living in rented dwellings, and this wealth, which is also in the State Housing Fund, has been collected from these tenants. Without these bill proposals being implemented, the burden that the remaining tenants would have to pay for the rent increases would be too heavy and excessive. The Government's proposal contains many good proposals and I warmly support them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u148	Madam President! Mr Honkonen gave a very good speech and an expert speech. At this point, it is easy to continue to thank you for this good government proposal, which the committee has then improved with its own action. This presentation addresses the problem or describes how differentiated Finland and our housing situation are in different parts of Finland. If we compare migration defeats with the capital region, they will be struggling with the opposite problems, both equally serious in that region, its people and its economy. Living here in Helsinki is quite unreasonably expensive, and we have a shortage of affordable rental housing. We should do a hell of a lot more rental housing production, because if we think that more than 25,000 people are currently applying for housing in the City of Helsinki, for example, it will tell us how big the shortage is. Here they are so much cheaper than market price rentals that it can be said that it is a lottery profit if you get a city rental dwelling. For us, the price of living is even an obstacle to employment when low-paid or low-paid sectors cannot accept work because they simply cannot pay for living. But when we go to such areas where there is a loss of migration, where there are few jobs, where there are no conditions for study or life, can you imagine that in up to 200 municipalities these subsidised rental housing is more expensive than market-based housing? In his speech, Congressman Hoskonen also described very well how difficult they are for different solutions in this kind of...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u151	Mr President! The previous speeches have already made quite clear what this legislative proposal is about. After all, this is fundamentally linked to social change, with growth centres and depopulation areas, and where the population is declining, the need for housing is lower, and then, on the other hand, the population is concentrated in growth centres. When this aspect of housing policy in particular has become more acute in recent years, it is of the utmost importance that such an opportunity to resolve matters exists than that provided by this bill, that is to say, an improvement in the amount of the issue of demolition, that is, the amount that can be forgiven. After all, the general decoding corde is now 70%, but I would particularly like to draw attention to this deviation, which was accepted in committee's reading, that in certain circumstances the decoding corde may be up to 90%. For example, we are aware of situations such as Savonlinna, where the utilisation rate of ARA rental dwellings is in some cases 40%, and then you can imagine the cost to the rental housing company. It is completely impossible to get rid of the debts and responsibilities that it has, let alone the cost of renting the tenants, because they will then have to bear the full responsibility, of which 100 per cent of the tenants bear responsibility. This is a much smaller number, and it is therefore also extremely important that this derogation or addition to the government proposal was brought about unanimously in committee. It is also important to moderate interest rates. After all, the Social Democrats have already proposed in several alternative budgets that the maximum rate of interest should be 1%. At the moment, a large proportion of the arava interest rate is already below that 1%, but that would mean that no interest rate could exceed that 1%. It would have been good if it had come in this context also in the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u152	Madam President! I am glad to hear that this is something that enjoys such broad support throughout all the parties in this Parliament. This is a very important issue for many places where the population has been reduced, but, on the other hand, it also shows the worrying polarisation of Finland, which has also been referred to by the Audit Committee in its own report, and which has in fact been taken into account by an institution such as the Bank of Finland. It is, of course, quite intolerable if people's housing wealth loses its value in some areas, the wealth they have put their work into over the decades. But, Mr President, this is, of course, a question of how to use the stock of rental housing financed by state aid in a more rational way. It is very important for a number of regions which have undergone various structural changes that the committee made a quite correct clarification that, in certain cases, as much as 90% of them could then be decommissioned, even though it also rises to 70% in this basic government proposal. Of course, as has already been pointed out here, this issue of affordability of interest is also an important consideration, but, above all, it may be appropriate to have a debate at national level on how all decisions take account of the whole of public authority, because it is quite clear that, when we, with public tax resources, secure the foundations and structures of this welfare society and when fundamental issues such as infraa or children's schools or care facilities for the elderly, we all fund, so it is important that the regions are vibrant and that all decisions are made — whether they are related to transport policy or economic policy or basic services — it should be taken into account as a whole. Unfortunately, it has often been the case in recent decades that, perhaps, the cuttings of government jobs have hit similar cities. Often they have been one of those regional cities, not one of the largest cities in the provinces, but one of the regional cities. When that cutter hits it, it will be necessary, for example, to make legislation of this kind, so that what happens to those rental dwellings if the rental market does not work. This means, of course, that we must have measures here in the capital region, which allow people to live with normal, normal incomes, and, on the other hand, there must be an equal regional policy, including that no one loses their property because of living somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u153	Madam President! Indeed, there is an important aspect of regional policy here, and it is often precisely in the neighbourhood cities mentioned by Mrs Kulmun that there are challenges to the housing market. When I said earlier that this could help to restore the housing market, the effect is, above all, that when there is a lot of this old rental housing stock and then there is a situation where, on the other hand, there is still a need for housing, then for industry, which goes quite well this year — many rural areas in rural local centres, even have labour shortages at the moment, but then, for example, the establishment of a young family in the local area and the acquisition of owner-occupied housing is too high a risk for many people, because there is a fear of a collapse in the price of the dwelling or the difficulty of selling it — in this way, perhaps, when the old housing stock is dismantled somewhat from those places, it is also possible to obtain a new, above all, from the free-funded, competitive, attractive rental housing stock. This is precisely the regional policy that is needed, that is to say, it is not about the so-called overthrow of money, but it is about enabling and providing the means by which every locality can take care of its vitality under the conditions which exist. In my opinion, this also provides good elements in these problem areas. Mr Modig made a good speech here and referred to this dismantling new construction, and it is indeed an extremely important and good proposal. I am afraid that its need will increase in the next few years due to the quality of construction over the last two or three decades. For this very reason, I fear that there will be even greater demand for this, because the quality of construction is not yet at the level at which it was 50 to 60 years ago, and for this reason there will certainly be more and more of a situation where, as a result of these building errors, renovation construction is too expensive and it is worth making it easier for housing companies with this proposal. Certainly, in the case of the subsidised housing stock, the rental and ownership housing stock, these problems are seen when they are built cheaply and too quickly and of too poor quality, but the risks are here on the state side and specifically on the State Housing Fund, which has been supported in the past. It is possible that much of the new housing stock will then become much earlier than anticipated for the renovation age.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u154	Mr President! It is good that these regional policy guidelines have also been raised here, because it is clear that where there are jobs, there are workers and there are workers who need housing. When jobs are reduced in some areas, these problems also arise. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the imbalance that has existed between Finland and Eastern Finland in recent years, for example, when the differences in development have been measured. It would therefore also be extremely important for Finland as a whole to be developed and for the instruments of regional policy that we have at our disposal to be available to Finland as a whole. After all, there has been a special emphasis on areas of positive structural change, and perhaps less so on the areas of difficult, negative structural change, but when such a policy is adopted, it can be said that the one who has, is given and the one who does not, is also taken away. Indeed, this is a small aid to the situation of sensitive rental housing, but it must also be borne in mind that when these investment decisions are taken, the need will always be there. I'm sure we all know from history how this funding has been provided 20 to 30 years ago, and quite a lot of those housing companies are in trouble today. I would like to raise one more point, and it is not now related to these sensitive rental dwellings, but as this debate has been expanded anyway: it is an old-fashioned housing company built in the 60s to 70s, with low-income people living in it. These housing companies have come to the point where they have to do major plumbing renovations, but these people do not have the money themselves and these housing companies are also in a situation where they do not get a loan. This will be an even bigger problem. This is already an economic problem and will be a major economic problem, and this will require specific solutions. I am not saying that money needs to be earmarked for the government budget in order to resolve this issue, but in some way it needs to be developed. Guarantees must be developed in such a way that this relatively good housing stock can be restored so that people who live there do not have excessive problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u155	Madam Speaker! There have been some terrible good things that have come up in many speeches. If we consider that the interest of all of us is, of course, to improve employment, then if you would like and otherwise have the opportunity to go after a job, how do you leave when your apartment may have lost its value and you should move to a city where living is quite unreasonably expensive? This equation does not work, and here there is such a problem of confrontation, that by means of housing policy — although it does not solve anything because there are so many other things that affect it — we are able to influence a lot of things. I share Mr Honkonen's view of this demolition of the building. I do believe that it will be of much more interest than it has now been estimated, that its impact will be, and for the reasons I have just mentioned: building a certain era was not of the best quality, but on the other hand it will offer us such a good opportunity. With the new position, we will be able to make better energy efficiency, actually making sustainable, climate-resistant buildings that take into account the entire life cycle of its building. Of course, everyone in this House is looking at things from their own point of view, from their own region, but yes I say that this housing policy, as a stadian, has revealed to me a lot of the challenges that exist elsewhere in Finland, and I say that this is the kind of thing that I hope that next season, whoever is sitting here, the vision adopted by the Audit Committee and Parliament as a whole that we need a long-term housing policy programme over the term of government, with a minimum of eight years of commitment to certain common policies. This is because the decisions are long-term, because this very commendable report from the Committee on Audit also highlighted the need for long-term sustainability in the MAL agreements — the best carrot we can control and accelerate housing construction and do it in a sustainable way. As we know, investment is best achieved by ensuring a safe and long-term environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u156	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 21/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u157	Mr President! The situation of war veterans has been under discussion here in Parliament for decades. Practical measures have largely fallen short of promises to improve the well-being of veterans. Over the years, regrettably many of the men and women of our independence have left us. The veterans of our wars now alive must be well cared for. In recent years some municipalities have done so. Some municipalities are not yet up to date on this. Many veterans are in great need of help. It is obvious that when the average age of veterans is over 93 years, care services are needed. Not everyone can afford to pay for their own pocket, so the help of society is important. Now the last years are at hand, while we can still show appreciation to veterans and put their services in order. This government proposal is a step forward in terms of equality between front veterans and war veterans. It is proposed that front veterans be allowed, at the level of the law, to have access to services of the same content in support of living at home as war veterans on the basis of the Military Injury Act. In this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the law on the rehabilitation of front veterans by replacing home-based services for veterans who participated in wars between 1939 and 1945 with a military code, a military code or a military code. In turn, the State Office would reimburse municipalities and joint municipal authorities for the costs of the change. In 2019 the cost impact of the proposal would be around EUR 20 million. In 2020, the proposal is estimated to have a cost-increasing effect of EUR 69,9 million and the additional costs for the following years would be reduced. But the need for help is tough here and now. I agree with the Committee on Social Affairs that the proposed legislative amendment should come into force as soon as possible. Is it really the case that, even today, the information system reform required by the reform will take so long that the proposal cannot enter into force before November next year? The budget initiative will also come to this Chamber and we will then vote on it. With interest, I look forward to the outcome. Mr President! These two legislative initiatives proposed to be rejected in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Act 76 of 2017 and Act 20 of 2018, seem to have done their job, since the government has also raised itself to help veterans. The members and alternates of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have jointly drawn up Act 85/2018, which aims to extend the number of war-qualified persons entitled to compensation for maintenance provided by the institution from 20% to 10%. This is a good change. I also made this same type of bill on 55/2018 earlier, but it was apparently not discussed in committee. I believe that all Finns who have served in wars deserve all possible health services. This is the least we can do for them anymore. The Finns have kept the issue of war veterans strongly on the agenda and will continue to do so, for we have not only our veterans but also the widows of veterans, war orphans, military boys and yet an important issue for them: tradition must continue, that is, traditional knowledge of why we are independent, what reasons have led us to become an independent country, how many losses and sacrifices it required, what is our history. It must be ensured that it will also remain on future knees, never forgotten. Of course we go forward and there will be new things, but independence and its history are so valuable that they must also be presented to the posterity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u158	Madam President! As has been said here, we are dealing with a government proposal proposing to amend the law on the rehabilitation of front veterans, and this proposal proposes that front veterans be reimbursed for home-based services and that the State Treasury compensate for the costs incurred by these municipalities and joint municipal authorities. This proposal relates to the State's draft budget for 2019 and is intended to be discussed in connection with it. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has dealt with this proposal and considered it very important and important. The committee's explanatory statement states, inter alia, that municipalities and joint municipal boards currently organise services for front veterans to support living at home within the limits of the appropriations paid by the Treasury. The Military Disability Act provides for the right to these services in order to ensure equal treatment between front veterans and war veterans in this respect. It is proposed that front veterans be allowed, at the level of the law, to have access to services of the same content in support of living at home as war veterans on the basis of the Military Injury Act. As has been said here, the State Treasury will reimburse municipalities and joint municipal authorities for the costs of providing services at home, and therefore municipalities and joint municipal authorities may not charge front veterans for the services in question, i.e. these are free services for front veterans. The budgetary impact of this on the state budget is to add a new estimate budget item for which the costs would be reimbursed to the State budget, and these costs would be around EUR 20 million for 2019. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered this proposal to be highly supported and notes that, although front veterans have already been provided with home support services within the framework of the state budget under the current regulation, the proposal strengthens the right of veterans to access these services and to extend to some extent the services to be reimbursed. In this respect, the committee also considers it important, in principle, that the proposal clarifies the legal status of front veterans and thus strengthens their right to home-based services under the legislation. In the previous debate last week, on the 5th, great concern was raised about the fact that when the Treasury has given funds to municipalities and joint municipal authorities specifically for services taken home by war veterans and front veterans, for a number of reasons, these funds have not been fully used but have since been returned to the State Treasury, and it has therefore been very good that attention has been paid to this issue in various municipalities and joint municipal authorities, and in that respect the situation has moved in a positive direction. A clear positive factor has been the setting up of so-called veteran advisors in different municipalities or joint municipal authorities, who have directed both veterans themselves and their relatives as well, which has made it possible for them to actively provide these services, which they could then use at home, and thus be able to rehabilitate themselves better at home. Of course, I have my personal experience in South Karelia, Eksote, where veteran advice is provided and each of them is subject to a personal evaluation. In South Karelia, these veterans are known to be touched by this, and that is how they have been reached, and now the veterans can choose a suitable form of rehabilitation and can be open rehabilitation, such as physical therapy, foot care, memory rehabilitation or similar, and then there may also be group rehabilitation, day rehabilitation or institutional rehabilitation. Veterans also receive various services that support living at home, and they have made it possible for veterans to use the most suitable forms of service for them. Mr President! I would also like to say a few words about this joint initiative by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which has also been very important. This bill proposes to amend Article 6 of the Military Injury Act. The aim of the legislative initiative is to extend the number of war-qualified candidates eligible for institutional care by reducing the disadvantage rate for periodic and permanent institutional care from 20% to 10%. This is very important because this will enable those who are qualified for war at a lower disadvantage to be able to obtain services more effectively now, and this will extend the range of war-qualified persons entitled to treatment and rehabilitation in an institution funded by the State Treasury. In that regard, I am very pleased that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health were able to take such a joint initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u159	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 12/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u160	Mr President! The law on child custody and access rights has entered into force some 35 years ago. However, the reform of the law has become topical as a result of changes in society and family structures, and that is where we stand. The main objective of this revised Child Welfare Act is to improve the child’s interests in matters of parental responsibility and rights of access. The best interests of the child must be the primary and most important basis for reflection and interpretation in all decision-making and action concerning the child and also in practice. The aim is to strengthen the right of the child to have his or her voice heard and to participate in matters relating to him or her. New provisions are proposed such as the obligation of guardians to protect the child from violence, to foster close relationships with the child and to contribute to the realisation of the right of access. More clearly, the law emphasizes the importance of both parents to the child. Provisions are being introduced to allow parents to agree or the court to decide that the child will live alternately with both parents. What is also new is that the child’s right to meet a person especially close to him, such as his or her grandparents, could be strengthened. In future, parents can also agree on the child’s maintenance and housing with other persons. In practice, the agreements on supplementary care relate to the arrangements for rainbow families and stepfamily groups and to child protection situations in which the accompanying parent can support the child’s growing conditions in such a way as to avoid being taken into care. Mr President! According to the proposal, the division of duties between guardians, subsidiary custody and access to information could be agreed in the future by an agreement established by the Social Security Board, which can now only be decided by the court. About 3,200 cases have been settled in district courts each year concerning parental responsibility and rights of access, some 1,300 of which are in dispute. The majority of matters relating to the child’s right of custody and visitation will therefore be resolved in a manner agreed by the parents. This reform will thus further increase the number of social contracts and reduce the number of cases dealt with by the courts. There is no need to bring disputes before the Court of Justice. The reform will increase and complicate the role of child supervisors in particular. This requires adequate training, guidance and resources for child supervisors. Mr President! The law introduces an important new provision on the obligation of guardians to protect the child from all forms of physical and mental violence, mistreatment and abuse. The proposal aims to implement the obligations of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. All forms of violence should be widely understood. It covers physical and mental violence, as well as violence directed directly at the child, but also, for example, directed directly against the child between spouses or parents. This must also be taken into account in resolving the issue of parental responsibility and rights of access in such a way that the exercise of rights of access or custody does not jeopardise the rights and safety of the victim or children of domestic violence. Mr President! Even under the current Child Care Act, child custody must ensure positive and close relationships, especially between the child and his or her parents, but it is now proposed that other relationships that are important to the child be maintained. Such an increase is to be welcomed. Especially when parents are separated, it is important that the child’s relationship with persons important to him, such as grandparents, is maintained. Of course, fostering close relationships with a child should, in principle, take place through normal means of communication that are practically supported by the child’s parents. In everyday practice, however, this is not always the case, and therefore a new provision to strengthen the right of access is necessary in the event of a dispute, i.e. in situations where parents do not contribute to the maintenance of the relationship between the child and the person particularly close to him. This requires very careful consideration, on the one hand, of the interests and protection of the child and of the person living with him and, on the other hand, of the child and the person particularly close to him. Mr President! It is good that the Child Care Act now also includes the possibility that the child will live alternately with both parents. At best, shift housing can support the child’s relationship with both parents and enable both parents to participate in the child’s upbringing and care equally and jointly and severally. In this way, shift housing can support the child’s development and well-being. It can also be estimated that shift housing promotes and strengthens, in particular, the participation of fathers in the growth and everyday life of children. However, shift housing may not be suitable for all children or for all family situations. The child’s housing arrangements are always based on the best interests of the child, which is why the situation should be assessed on a case-by-case basis in the best interests of the child, taking into account in particular the child’s age and development level, the child’s nature and tendencies, the specific needs of the child, the distance between the parents’ places of residence and the ability of the parents to take joint responsibility for matters relating to the child. The best interests of parents must not go beyond the best interests of the child. Although the development of a child is individual, the repetition and predictability of routines is particularly important for the development of a small child, as children under 3 years of age have a developmental need to receive similar repeated treatment from the same parent and to avoid separation experiences. It is also apparent from the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that a weekly change in shift living, especially in small children, can jeopardise predictability, repetition and attachments that ensure the child’s safety. The big problem is that when a child can have only one official residence determined by the municipality of residence law, although the child actually lives alternately with the parents, many social services and benefits, such as housing allowance and school transport, are performed only according to the child’s official residence. However, this bill does not contain any changes to the basis for determining the benefits and rights provided for in specific legislation. It is therefore of particular importance that in future, shift housing is taken into account in the services and benefits of society in order to contribute to the use of such housing. The impact of shift housing and the need for changes to the legislation on benefits and services should therefore be examined and evaluated as soon as possible and the necessary legislative changes should be prepared without delay. In practice, a low-income parent may not be able to live in alternation with his or her child, because the housing allowance does not take account of the child’s residence with him. This must, of course, be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u161	Madam President! I would like to thank the government moderately and also the unanimous committee for this report. This is the background to the Government Programme’s record that the law on child custody and access rights — rightly, from 83 C.E., Mr Eloranta — is now being updated so that no child in divorce would lose a parent or father. This was the case with the government program. I would like to mention the fact that this report has been waded through, indeed, just this increase in shift housing, which has been seen internationally as good. The importance of both parents is acknowledged — here I am thinking about both parents, that the record of the government program mentioned the father and mother, but in any case I am not going to fight here. Then these next of kin other than just biological parents, which means this granny and grandpa thing has been well taken into account here. And then, as has just been heard from Eloranta, it is up to both parents to prevent all forms of violence, including mental violence. Then what I do not really know is whether there is a minus or a plus is that the power of the social services in relation to the courts is expanding. It may be problematic in a situation where one parent is in some way subordinate to the other. If this social authority then takes the side of a stronger parent, it will only develop the sense of dedication in the situation of a parent, or often a parent, who is in a subordinate situation. It is a good thing that we do not have to go to the courts so often, because it only saves money, but I wonder what the means are when these situations are controversial, if it is solely the responsibility of the social services. Well, then, in the best interest of the child. This is highlighted in this report on a number of points. It is a good thing in itself that it is being emphasised, but I do not know when the best interests of the child have not been defined in any way here, what it is and who determines the best interests of the child in any situation. Mr President! I was actually gonna make it in three minutes, but I'm not gonna make it. I'm coming back from that toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! But then these clear negatives in this report, which is why I am a little disappointed with this paper, are that although the big and correct title and many sentences and many paragraphs are spoken about alienation and other blocking of the right of access, how damaging it is to the child and what it may cause, what is missing is that this alienation is by no means sufficiently defined, nor sanctioned except by the part of the penalty payment. This is indeed problematic — or it is good in itself that there is a penalty payment, but when you do not properly define when this alienation will be fulfilled, what alienation is and whose alienation must be identified. In other words, responsibility is given to the social services on the one hand in this matter and trying to reduce the burden on the judiciary, and then it is said that a penalty payment can be imposed if the right of access is prevented, but it is not clearly stated who is to define it as alienation and who is not to give tools to when alienation has taken place. Is alienation, for example, if one of the parents, i.e. a close parent, was spoken in the old language without asking the other parent’s permission to take a child, even though living together in Vantaa, and then move to Kuopio without any other grounds — even if there is no job in Kuopio? By the way, Kuopio may be a good place, but there is a lot of distance between the father, the mother and the child. Well, it's probably not just this one, but if that guy drives to those scheduled meetings every other weekend from Vantaa to Kuopio and then it's only at the door that he says, "Well, now he's a sick kid," he's not going to be able to travel to your place in Vantaa now – is this alienation? How will the social services authority be able to decide if there are no blocks of any kind? Is it alienation, then, if it is the end of a meeting week or even the week between the mother and the mother when the child is on the other, and if one of the parents, for example, now the close parent, fits some hobby stuff for the child, any hobby that happens at the very times when he or she has an appointment with the parent living elsewhere? Is that alienation? In other words, there is absolutely no attempt to define what alienation is, nor is there any indication of who should identify alienation. This is the worst deficiency in this unanimous report. I tried to tell the members of the committee what this is. Otherwise, in many other areas, this will go in the right direction. I already listed those pluses, and Eloranta gave them a more detailed list. Another minus, in addition to this alienation, is the issue of maintenance, which means that in many situations the paying parent finds himself in very unreasonable situations. If it happens at the moment that divorce comes, be well - paid and so, then the agreement on child support may be defined according to the situation, but then the following year you will be unemployed or something else. They are terribly difficult, they are multi-annual legal processes, which will then last until perhaps, possibly — and not necessarily even — changes in the levels of maintenance payments. They should have some sort of standards by age, so that regardless of what the old man’s income is, the fees would always be the same and then society might pay the rest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u162	Mr President! Just a few words about that alienation, which was also mentioned in the speech. Indeed, it is an unfortunate phenomenon, and alienation is the parent’s behavior in a way that complicates the relationship between a child and another parent or other person and in some cases leads to its total breakdown. The law emphasises the importance of rights of access and the harmfulness of preventing it for the child. This also highlights the importance of close relationships with the child and the responsibility of both parents to ensure that the child is maintained with both parents and that the parent must contribute to the exercise of the right to visit, and that the parenting role must avoid anything that might harm the relationship between the child and the other parent. Similarly, all forms of manipulation and other inappropriate influence on the child are prohibited. The parent’s ability to put the child’s needs ahead of the conflicts between parents must also be taken into account when deciding on the child’s custody, housing and right of access, i.e. when the condition check is made, this must be taken into account if this is what is meant to happen. The law proposes a number of legislative measures which are more effective in preventing and providing the means to address problems of access rights arising from alienation or other reasons. The law includes, among other things, a new provision on the imposition of a periodic penalty payment when the right of access is already decided by a court if the previous behaviour of a person living with a child suggests that he or she will not comply with the decision on the right of access. The aim should also be to prevent and intervene at the earliest possible stage in the process of alienation. Parents should therefore be provided with more information on alienation and its harmfulness to the child in various services for children and families, especially in the event of divorce or divorce, when carrying out the study of circumstances. It is also important for the authorities to identify alienation situations as early as possible and to cooperate more closely to prevent and investigate alienation. Thus, in its statement, the Legal Committee proposes that the Government strengthens and develops support for parenthood and relationships and services for divorce situations, in order to prevent and resolve prolonged and difficult disputes concerning maintenance and access rights. It is also important, in my view, that, although this bill does not specifically define alienation, it has now been said many times here. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u163	The general debate is closed. - I'm sorry, Elomaa still has time to push the button. Here you go, Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u164	Thank you, Mr President. There's a lot of good in this government proposal. It has highlighted the importance of both parents for the child. Grandparents are important to a child, shift living — a lot of good things. The best interests of a child: the best interests of a child should always be first. Mr Eerola raised one objection, that is to say, there would be no definition of alienation and what alienation is. That is indeed an important point, and it would have liked to have been dealt with more and raised in this government proposal. The skills and fairness of social authorities are of enormous importance when it comes to children's matters, especially in the event of divorce, if the child is taken into care by the social authority. We have probably received a lot of feedback from a number of representatives about the rather harsh situations in which one parent is really upset that he cannot see his child for many hours. Of course, there are often reasons for what has led to this, but the social authorities in particular are also very much to be expected to take a very careful approach, especially a fair approach. These are so sensitive and difficult things that under no circumstances should the child be alienated from his parents for long periods of time if there is no real reason to do so. But mainly this government proposal is a step for the better, and that is a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u165	Mr President! To Mr Elomaa, I would like to remind you that this law does, however, involve a number of legislative measures which are more effective in preventing these alienation situations, including a penalty payment, which can then be imposed on the right of access. In addition to that, we have made quite a statement about strengthening and developing support issues for parenthood and relationships and services for divorce situations in order to prevent these things from happening. And we have a good maternity and child health system. It is very important that both parents are brought to the attention of the new parents from the maternity clinic and then, even if it is a little already pointed out that if the relationship ends and the child still remains, it is important that both parents realize that it must be done all they can to ensure that parenthood can continue, and not to consider alienation as a means of bullying the other spouse, and that the disputes must be resolved in another way without the child as an instrument.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u166	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this evening with this issue, but now I ask a little bit of a question — no one has to answer, but I ask him a little rhetorically after listening to these other speeches — how to guide and instruct the authorities, how to guide and instruct parents in the event of a possible difference in some unwanted behavior, if that behaviour has not been defined in any way, that what it is not desirable to do is what it is not to do. And how can you threaten me with a periodic penalty payment? How can anyone be ordered to pay a periodic penalty payment if it is not specified where to obtain the periodic penalty payment? In my recent speech, when I ran into that toilet, I told you some of the situations that are just a living real life in which one side feels that it has been a victim of alienation of this kind, but it is only his experience. Is it, then, a social services official, who will determine that this is really what he thinks has been done with this alienation? Now we can perhaps give a statement to the effect that, in our opinion, this would include the penalty payment? But I personally see it as a serious deficiency. This report well says that alienation is a bad thing. It's mental violence. It is to the detriment of the relationship between the child and the other parent and so on, but as long as there is no definition of what it is, no one knows exactly what it is, and it is just people's different estimates of what it is. And as long as a thing is not properly prohibited — underlining the prohibition that this thing is prohibited by law — so long as it is permitted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u167	Mr President! Although there is no definition of alienation in the text itself, it does appear in the explanatory statement and even now in the committee report. In other words, alienation is the parent’s behavior in a way that complicates the relationship between the child and the parent or other person and in some cases leads to its total breakdown. So, obviously, we know what that means. And then, as far as this penalty payment is concerned, it is quite clear that if it appears that this person, such as the mother or the father, has behaved in such a way that there is reason to suspect that he will not comply with the decision on the right of access, then in that case a penalty payment may be imposed in order to ensure that this right of access will be fulfilled. However, it is now quite a powerful instrument. Also, in the case of a study of circumstances and an investigation of the situation of both father and mother, if one parent is in a position to start alienating, the place of residence can be determined with the other parent, who is not visiting. There are a lot of things that have been said here, so I think this is going to go for the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u168	Madam President! I think this report is very good, and the fact that it is unanimous indicates that the committee has indeed devoted itself to it and consulted widely with experts from various fields. All the time, that force in the work of the committee was in the best interests of the child, that is to say, all the expert assessments, all the legal provisions and the whole, from the point of view of the child. Personally, I am pleased that this is now in our hands in this Parliament's big room, because this law is precisely improving the child's right to both parents and close people. What Mr Eerola said: it is true that in the various situations of everyday life, in these very controversial custody issues and disputes, there have been such situations — and I myself have had such contacts — in which we must consider and consider whether that truth has always played a decisive role and whether there have even been any preconceptions towards one of the parents. These are, of course, situations in which we parliamentarians cannot intervene. But for us to have clear legislation that then regulates it, it is important that we are in the process of making those laws that do not harm or hinder those issues that are important and essential to the child's interests in everyday life. After all, shift housing was an issue that was much discussed, and I see that in the future it will also improve in relation to the child. But, of course, this concept of alienation is such that if we had gone out on some specific points to open it, then it would be easy for everything else to be excluded. That is why it is general but certainly covers all situations where, for example, mail from one parent is not allowed to be discussed, for example, by telephone with the other parent, to be prevented from meeting, and all of these. These are estrangements, and I do not think it is necessary to list separately what different measures it is, but to assess the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u169	Mr President! Indeed, once again, Mrs Eloranta here read the definition of alienation from the report nicely, but while there are still these flaws, I would now ask: When one parent moves from another official guardian without asking permission, the other without informing the child’s books at the Local Register Office, for example, from Vantaa to Kuopio, is it alienating according to this definition? And if, on Friday night, the old man drives from Vantaa to Kuopio and then it is announced in the parking lot that the child is sick now, he will not be able to go with you for the weekend, is this an alienation? If so, or if not, who determines that alienation has now taken place and then decides on a possible penalty payment? This is what I'd like to know, and then I'm done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u170	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 19/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u171	Madam President! It should be pointed out from the outset that this is a unanimous report from the committee. The purpose of the Government’s initial proposal has been to make changes to the Rescue Act and some other laws resulting from the legislation on the establishment of provinces, the implementation of the regional reform and the reorganisation of the state’s licensing, control and control functions. A supplementary government proposal has been submitted to Parliament on 20 September this year, proposing that the proposed amendments to the regional reform be deleted. The committee notes that the Rescue Act, which entered into force in 2011, has been amended within a relatively short period of time by legislation based on several separate government proposals. In addition, the rescue services system will change in the context of this regional reform. For these reasons, the committee considers it necessary that the functioning of the Rescue Act should also be assessed as a whole. In 2019, a project for the overall reform of the Rescue Act will be set up. The main content of these Government proposals under discussion will consist of proposals for amendments to the Civil Protection Act on the prevention of oil and ship chemicals damage, the training of rescue personnel and contract staff, and also on the construction of civil protection. The Ministry of the Environment currently has the highest level of management, control and control of oil and vessel chemicals damage control. It is now proposed to transfer them to the Ministry of the Interior. It is proposed that the prevention of such damage will continue to be part of the rescue action provided for in the Rescue Act. The Ministry of the Interior is also responsible for the national preparations and arrangements for the prevention of oil and vessel chemical damage. The control, training and other development tasks for vessel oil and vessel chemicals are transferred from the Finnish Environment Institute to the Border Guard, which conducts operations to combat damage referred to in the proposal at sea. Rescue operations in the area of emergency services, such as the archipelago and the coastal area, are always managed by the rescue authority in that area. The Committee notes that the Border Guard has long-standing and also international experience in maritime activities. The Border Guard is therefore very well equipped to carry out this task. The Administrative Committee considers it important that the division of responsibilities and responsibilities between the various authorities should continue to be as clear as possible. The overall use of the rescue services’ own management systems is currently partially under-utilised, as the arrangements for the prevention of oil and chemical damage are different from the other rescue services. The reason for this change is therefore to make better use of management systems and centres developed for the rescue of the Border Guard and Rescue Department in the fight against environmental damage. Furthermore, functional operations are no longer very natural for the Finnish Environment Agency, which has been developed primarily as a research institute. The rescue services cover approximately 80% of the equipment and training required for the prevention of oil spills through compensation from the Oil Pollution Fund. The committee stresses the need to: The oil fund plays a major role in the practical work of preparing and combating oil spills. On the basis of the report it has received, the committee notes that these proposed changes do not affect the procurement of equipment for the various operators and therefore also the purchases financed by the Oil Protection Fund. The committee also stresses the importance of effective cooperation between the authorities in the field of oil pollution preparedness and other preparedness. The committee also stresses that the resources available must provide the best possible response capability. Then, Mr President, a few words about these people's shelters, what is involved here? In this report, the committee has considered it justified that the construction of population protection should continue in order to safeguard the needs of the population. The Committee therefore considers it important that these proposed changes to civil protection should ensure the maintenance of the current population protection population. The proposed amendments aim to streamline the procedure for granting derogations for the construction of civil protection and to reduce the cost of civil protection. It is proposed to transfer the granting of discretionary exemptions and reliefs for civil protection construction from the Regional State Administrative Agency and the Ministry of the Interior to the authority granting the building permit. This should reduce the administrative burden associated with the procedure. However, the committee stresses that the authority granting the building permit must continue to consult the rescue authorities when making such a decision. The authorities must always assess the benefits of civil protection from the point of view of the protection of the population. That brings us to this last point, which I shall mention here, namely monitoring. It is important that this should happen, and the Committee considers it important that the impact of this change, in particular on the clear organisation of responsibilities and environmental considerations, be monitored in the fight against oil and vessel chemical damage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u172	Madam President! Rescue Act 18/2018, 138/2018 and then in between a couple more times otherwise. In other words, the chairman of the committee went through these issues quite well, but perhaps I will also mention some of them which were given particular attention. The first was the need for an overall reform. The committee would not wish to see a situation where experts do not know what the basis for the reform of the law is — whether it is the current law in force or the law that is already being discussed here in Parliament, to which reference should be made. There's no such thing as this. This reform, which is now taking place as a temporary measure, removes the link with the provincial administration because draft law 18/2018 is the proposal where it connects to that provincial administration, and now, in order for this proposal to proceed, it must remove the regional governments, which, of course, I am not sorry about in any way. In this case, therefore, responsibility and contact with municipalities remain. Perhaps it is also noteworthy when dealing with this law — as with many other laws — that, if you look at the report, there are 40 pages of amended articles. So the number of articles is much higher, but 40 pages of amended articles, which means that there has been some work here at the end of the House to get a sensible legislative package out of this. In the Internal Security Report, the issue of civil protection was addressed, stating that there will also be a need for them in the future — a wide range of threats that need to be prepared for — and therefore the number of Finns still has to be found and at a reasonable distance. Thus, 600 buildings are still being built every year. In fact, this change came only to the effect that these exemptions, now applied for with separate permission, to light structures, such as sports halls or riding manes, would no longer be at the end of the aviary, but could be granted at the end of the municipality to grant these exemptions from the population shelters and their construction into these halls, among other things. So it is still possible to build common shelters, among other things, and the idea that the population protection is still in use during the normal period is still very well founded. One big question during this debate was these eligibility criteria, and fortunately we have clarified them in committee so that these eligibility criteria, which still require clarifications, do not relate to the appointment and responsibilities of the staff, not to them — as has been the case here in some comments to us — whether, for example, people who do not have the rescue training approved by the Rescue College, such as paramedics who are involved at the rescue site, or even volunteers who are involved there, can actually participate in the rescue activities. Everyone has the opportunity to participate, as long as the management of rescue operations is in the hands of professionals and those who have received this training. The transfer of oil control, which means perhaps transferring four man-years away from the Ministry of the Environment to the Border Guard, is justifiable. It is known that, even now, the Border Guard, particularly in the maritime regions, and also the Defence Forces, are two major factors, the ships of which are currently trusted in those maritime areas in the fight against oil, and that is why it has also been written in the report that these compensations, both to the Defence Forces and to the Border Guard, should be taken into account in the acquisition of their ships. The big thing, which also relates to that next point, relates to the Oil Protection Fund and the Fire Prevention Fund. In both of us, we have written in the report that these must not be passed on to the budget, but are still these two funds, which are, therefore, mainly covered by payments made in these matters, which must be for the prevention of fires and the promotion of rescue, i.e. in those projects when something is being built, something is being acquired in order to achieve these objectives. Monitoring is very important and necessary, because this point, for a few years or perhaps even a shorter time, must be seen for the clarity of the responsibilities and how these environmental aspects have been addressed in relation to these oil and chemical damage and their prevention. There has been particular concern about the share of marine environmental damage, and I hope that this will now respond better in the future by means of this transfer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u173	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 31/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u174	Madam President! This government proposal to allow heavy snowmobiles on snowmobile routes is particularly welcome. Already today heavy snowmobiles are in use, they can be driven in the forest, but now they can be driven on snowmobile routes. The driver will need a category T driving licence to carry a heavy snowmobile in the future. We believe that this proposal is very good for improving the activities of tourism companies in northern Finland in particular, as this will allow tourists and other tourists to be transported in forests and nature sites and to nature destinations better than if these people themselves drove snowmobiles. The committee in its report stated that the effects must be monitored and it is, of course, a good thing that this will then be the subject of a report over time, since the phenomenon is new and should be monitored.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u175	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u176	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u177	Madam President! This proposal for an electronic driving licence is part of the government’s digitalization projects and is very welcome. It is a question of the driver not having to carry that card on the road, but of using a smartphone to demonstrate, if necessary, the right to drive a vehicle. In the hearing we heard that this is an opportunity to cheat, and the committee therefore pays particular attention to the need to monitor the effects on transport and to develop new safety systems to ensure that this mobile driving licence is as reliable as possible in the future. We also said that it would be good to have this developed in a model that the mobile driving licence could also be used to prove identity in situations where the identity is needed, i.e. in matters other than on-road driving rights, and this further development of the system would be highly desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u178	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 22nd item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 27/2018 vp will be decided at the sole reading of the Convention and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u179	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u180	Madam President! Indeed, the paragraph has already been voted on, but I would still like to say a few words, because this is what many of us, as decision-makers, are still suffering in that council meeting this week — we, too, in Kotka, will be deciding on the council budget for next year. It is therefore sad to note that next year's central government cuts amount to more than EUR 250 million, i.e. index freezes of central government transfers, the negative effects of the holiday allowance cuts that have once been taken and now taken up for a second time, and then these various preliminary cuts, such as the centralisation of special care, family and family care, and the expansion of early childhood education groups, etc. In particular, with regard to these preliminary cuts, it is difficult for the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, among others, to ask all municipalities and joint municipal authorities how much is saved, for example, in this concentration of special medical care. When it came to the idea of saving nearly EUR 300 million, the reality is perhaps EUR 30 million. Even so, these have already been taken out in advance. At the same time, I have just received a message that, in connection with the reform of social welfare and taste, the municipalities are already paying hundreds of millions of euros, in particular by providing work for the preparation of these administrations, which, unfortunately, is not going to be any compensation to the municipalities. Here are a few minor details of how these targets are targeted at the municipalities: Among other things, this promotion of digitalisation, which is very much to be welcomed, this government proposal makes it so that 30 million — in the past it was still 40 million — are not distributed to everyone, but is taken out of the general state shares and distributed to some on the basis of the application. The same will be done in the future in connection with unification grants: in the past, it was a separate funding, and now 10 million will be taken out of other state transfers, and then the estimate is that it will perhaps go into two or three mergers for these economically successful municipalities. That is why we have put forward a proposal that instead of 25.37 per cent, the central government share of municipalities should be 26.8 per cent, which would be 73.2% instead of 74.6, as is the case with the government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-10-ps-127.u181	Mr President! It is from the province that the above-mentioned butter is excellently confirmed for my part, From the budget meeting of the town council in Lappeenranta, on arrival. If Kiki saved the cost of the municipality, then it will also cut through the loss of tax revenue, and the advance implementation of this concentration regulation has also resulted in significant additional bills for our hospital district. At the time, while the Finns of Peru were in the government, the principle was not to cut off the municipalities or, if they are given additional obligations, to allocate the money to those obligations. I think this was a very good principle, and I wonder where this principle has now gone, because if not directly cut, then at least indirectly and conditionally, as mentioned earlier.
