ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 April 2018. In the debate, Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the bill be rejected and that Parliament approve the proposal for a statement under protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u2	First, we have to vote on the adoption or rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 3/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 April 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u5	Mr President! I propose that the draft law should take the form of the Greens' objection, that is to say, objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u7	With the support of Emma Kari, Ozan Yanar has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u8	Mr President! The intention was to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u9	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u10	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u11	Mr President! It is therefore a law that is proposed to provide security measures in the Finnish Immigration Service, allowing security checks to be carried out on those who arrive and are present in the Agency and other security measures to be carried out with the very same powers and the same model that currently exists in the courts, in the premises of the Government and also in the premises of the Parliament. With the power of the bill, the security check... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u14	Madam President! Parliament has therefore now received a government proposal to provide security measures in the Finnish Immigration Service. The purpose of this law is to ensure a safe working environment for the employees of the Finnish Immigration Service and to prevent threat situations, and this is certainly a good, appropriate and supportive objective. The question is, however, how have we allowed the situation to reach the point where the Finnish Immigration Service needs to resort to security checks in order to safeguard the work of its employees. The fact that the Finnish Immigration Service now needs new ways to guarantee safety at work must not serve as another example of asylum seekers as a security threat to Finland in principle, because this is not the case. Asylum seekers are persons who, under international law, are entitled to international protection from Finland when the criteria are met. This human factor should now be remembered when the Finnish Immigration Service is being equipped with the right of screening. It is essential to draw attention to the fact that asylum seekers' applications are carefully and fairly processed. It creates security. As such, President, it is regrettable that many public workers are faced with threats in their work, unfortunately often, for example, social and health care professionals. The question is therefore wider: how is the right of all workers to have peace of work and the right to physical integrity, the right to be without harassment? In an OI State, officials must be able to do their job without any pressure at all. Therefore, in order to strengthen the mutual sense of security, it is important that there is a legitimate confidence in the functioning of the rule of law, that the matter of each individual, whether it be an asylum seeker's affair or a Finnish matter, should be properly dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u15	Let us take a few comments, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u16	Madam President! I understand that Mrs Tuppurainen was concerned that, when such a law was adopted, which allows security checks in the Finnish Immigration Service, this would be behind the idea that asylum seekers are, in principle, a threat to security. Of course it is not behind this, but unfortunately, Mrs Tuppurainen, living life is such that the Finnish Immigration Service, for example, has come with a knife and this knife has been dealt with in the middle of an asylum interview. Such unfortunate experiences exist, and it is our responsibility as legislators to ensure that such incidents cannot happen again. I would rather ask Minister Silkkäs: is it really the case that we should decide individually for each government agency that security checks can be carried out there? Wouldn't some general law be in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u17	Mr President! I should like to add to Mr Tuppurainen's good speech in itself that, in my view, when Mr Tuppurainen was concerned that this safety check would, as a general rule, be directed at these asylum seekers, I see a little more broadly that, when a safety check is carried out in an agency, it will be carried out on all those who come to that agency. I understand that you can at least come to the Finnish Immigration Service, even if you do not do business now, but also with asylum seekers, and it is therefore a little wrong to say that this security check or security check would only be targeted against a few people. I do think it is very important that it is for everyone, and it is for those who work there, but also for those who work there. It is important for everyone's safety that the inspection is carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u18	There was yet another reply, Mr Hoskonen, and then there was the reply, Mr Tuppurainen, because his name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u19	Madam President! Indeed, I believe that this kind of legislation, which protects people's safe working environment, is good and well-founded. As Mr Zyskowicz described in his own speech, there must be effective practices for such events, and it is precisely when you are in office that all public activities must be governed by law. There nothing can begin to be done in official activity other than what the law specifically obliges them or gives them the right to do. That is why we need to update these legislation. I can tell you that when, for example, a few years ago due to a slight hand injury, I had to resort to medical assistance in Joensuu at the hospital, when I was waiting for the doctor at the hospital at night, I said that, on that summer night, it was such that there would have been a need for a larger number of security guards when there was a really wild thing going on at the hospital reception. Yes, I understand the feeling of insecurity of these people, and the answer must be that the legislation is up to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u20	Mr President! The law is certainly well-founded and supported and necessary. It is clear that employees of the Finnish Immigration Service, like other workers, have the right to work without fear of physical threat or harassment or anything that hinders the proper functioning of an official. Unfortunately, Mr Zyskowicz, this intimidation is taking place today at social services offices, for example. Many cases have also come to the public, where real violence has been dealt with, so that the issue is not quite unique now in the case of the Finnish Immigration Service. But what I wanted to say was to show that the fact that the Finnish Immigration Service is allowed to carry out security checks under a separate law must not, as it were, be used as a stick horse in a debate in which there is no doubt that some people want to label asylum seekers as a security threat. It must also be possible to deal with this matter properly as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u21	Two more replies: Mr Kiuru Pauli, Mr Räsänen Päivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u22	Madam President! When people work in their workplace, the starting point must be to be able to work in a safe environment. This applies to teachers in schools, it concerns paramedics, rescue workers, all people — that is the starting point. Any action aimed at improving this security is welcome. Perhaps this background has even had the wrong attitude toward tolerance at times. We must be tolerant, but under no circumstances should we tolerate behaviour that puts people under pressure where the threat of violence is being used and thus away. Yesterday, in their joint statement, the editors took a stand on the persecution that journalists and journalists face in their work — and many others in the public domain. It is worth looking at what the Administrative Committee heard a couple of years ago in the context of the internal security strategy and wondering whether there are still some things that could be done in the direction of those opinions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u23	There seems to be some interest in the debate here, so let's keep going for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u24	Madam President! It is true that people who are in contact with the Finnish Immigration Service tend to behave calmly and honestly, which is of course not to be generalized. But I do not think we should underestimate the concern expressed by the Finnish Immigration Service's own staff. They made a petition in autumn 2017 to improve their own safety at work, and I think that this bill is the answer to this concern. They tell us that they face applicants who have mental health problems, which come from conflict zones, and also threatening situations and disorderly behaviour every day. That is why I personally do not see the concern expressed by Mrs Tuppurainen that this should now be used in some way against asylum seekers. I've got to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u26	Mr President! Indeed, we have had security checks in the courts for a long time, and there are many kinds of people involved there. There are divorce cases, child care issues, criminal cases. They have not, in principle, been labeled for anything, but they want to ensure safety. When Hyvinkää’s office building was reformed — a few years ago — there was no security check at the Court’s premises and there was a stabbing. A friend of mine was there as a district judge, and then it was thought, when there were open doors, that what if he had come from behind? It is a real worry because people can be dissatisfied with decisions. I did not quite understand that if good decisions are taken, it will create security — as if it were an indication that good decisions are not being taken there. Or even if bad things are done, you have to complain about them by means of appeal and not go swinging with a knife. That I didn't quite understand this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u27	Mr President! Indeed, now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask whether this proposal could be a way of opening up the way for these security checks to be carried out more in different agencies. I hate to ask you a question like this in a room like this, but the world has changed. I am sure that we still have painful memories of Jokela and other school articles, among other things. In these security checks, we must have enough money for the agencies in such a way that people who work there know that they can be safe at work and that at least the most heavy and worst weapons that may be involved can be removed during the screening. This is something we must dare to look at, and this is something we must dare to discuss, as unfortunate as it is in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u28	Madam President! This proposal is indeed based on the wishes of the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service, which have been passed on to the Minister and the Committee on Administration and the Members of Parliament on a wider scale, and it is good that action has been taken quickly to remedy this. I am sure that we all know in this Chamber, regardless of our political opinions, that immigration and asylum issues are in turmoil, and Migri is, of course, at the heart of these issues in many ways. Regardless of what political decisions are taken, it is obvious that the opportunities and conditions for the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service to work and carry out their work in accordance with the regulations must be guaranteed. At the same time, however, it is good to remember that there is no real reason for the alammism. As Mr Räsänen and his partners have said, most of the customers there are also being very well-liked. Nevertheless, it is important that we get this right, and the Finnish Immigration Service will certainly be able to discuss this even further today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u29	Mr President! Just as it has been said here, the safety of all workers and also the safety of those who need different services must be safeguarded, but of course we must also consider what it is made up of. It is indeed alarming if our only answer is that these security systems are being developed, but when it is necessary, that certainly is the case. But I understand very well what Mrs Tuppurainen has said, and I think it was very balanced when it took into account various aspects of this debate. I myself believe that we should avoid pointing fingers at some people. Unfortunately, we have these security problems in a great many places.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u30	Mr President! It has indeed come very well, and I was delighted that the various parties have been told how such a general law, as Mr Zyskowicz said, would be needed in practice today in several different places. I myself have worked with the foreign police for years, first in the asylum investigation, and then I did expulsions to the Finnish Immigration Service, and we worked with the Finnish Immigration Service a lot, of course. In this brief reply, I would like to point out once again that we should consider the fact that every authority has peace and safety at work — that it does not happen to my colleague in the police force, that he was hit in the head with an axe, and that it is good that he did not lose his life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u31	Madam President! The debate is very security-yielding, and I ask the Minister: now that such a bill has been brought to Parliament, could it now be considered that such a general safety assessment would be carried out on the security of government officials and of the various office-holders, which could then possibly be refined so that where those risks are real, they can then be turned to the activities in which these security controls are carried out? I am not underestimating at the moment and I respect the fact that it is precisely this that has left the staff's wish, but as I know that there are considerably more of these wishes elsewhere, perhaps it is now time for such a national assessment of the security of the office to be carried out on a risk-based basis and then, if necessary, to make legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u32	One more reply, and then to the list of speakers. If you want a minister in between, you can answer when I know you have your next appointment. — Mr Räsänen Jonah, last reply at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u33	Mr President! This is necessary legislation, and this responds to the very concern that has been acutely expressed by the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service. It is good that this is being put right. When listening to this discussion, there was little disagreement about this hall. It was quite agreed that all workers in any ministry must have the right to a safe working environment, it is a matter of course. And it should be quite clear to the wider world of work that when you work, you can count on it in a safe environment. The second point then relates to the fact that, while we respond, for example, in this case to such acute concern that has come from the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service, it should not be used more widely as a means, for example in this case, to label certain groups of people, as Mrs Tuppurainen referred to here, for example. I understand that there is agreement on this too, so on this basis it will probably be quite easy for the Minister to continue this work, and now, hopefully, Parliament will quickly implement this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u34	Then Minister Mykkänen, three minutes. You can like the place if you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u35	Mr President! Thank you for a constructive debate. Indeed, this threat assessment seems to be broadly in line with the Parliament: that, of course, the physical security of both the staff and, in this case, asylum seekers must be guaranteed, and, if it requires the powers of security checks as proposed in the government's proposal, it feels that there is broad support for it here in Parliament, and that is a good thing. In this way, it is good to build this security on a solid basis. It is also certainly the case, as perhaps I am interpreting Mr Kiuru here, for example, that threatening behaviour does not deserve tolerance. In other words, if there is a clear situation where it is seen that someone is bringing objects related to violence or otherwise threatening conduct, then security checks must be possible in this direction, even though we in Finland have carefully wanted to see that fundamental rights are also covered by the principle of extra non-interference. And at the same time, of course, as Mr Meri has pointed out here for example, no matter how you feel about the decisions of any authority, they will never be able to justify threatening behaviour or violence, whether it is the tax office or the branch of the Social Insurance Institution or the office of the Finnish Immigration Service. I also agree with what Mr Tuppurainen has pointed out here that, of course, this is not meant to indicate that asylum seekers are at stake who pose a particular threat to security. It is also a question of protecting the offices of the Finnish Immigration Service against perhaps immigrationist activists, who have also, unfortunately, been guilty of violent acts and have also become threats to address situations. So it's both ways in itself. It is also clear, of course, that when we have thousands of people who have been in reception centres for a long time and have come out of violent circumstances, then the threshold for threatening conduct may also have been lowered, and that fact is obviously not worth trying to speak about. The question has then arisen as to why we are imposing security controls or its wider powers now specifically for the Finnish Immigration Service. Indeed, in the past they have been used by the courts and the Government’s activities and by other well - defined authorities. After all, we have had the tradition of looking at when the physical integrity of a person is sufficiently necessary. If you talk about the Tax Office, the Social Insurance Institution’s offices, and what are the corresponding ones, you may ask whether there has been a sufficiently low threshold for a systematic screening of the person’s private assets. Until now, the reason for this has not been seen as important enough. Of course, these assessments in the field of internal security are constantly being carried out, but I do recall what several representatives have repeated here, that is, is there a stage now in 2018 that needs to be seen with a little more precision, too, when our security environment is becoming more diverse and perhaps unexpected things may be ahead of us more likely than they have been in the traditional Finnish environment. It would be better to prepare for them systematically in advance, so that this too should be seen if it is worth protecting all public services more closely than before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u36	And then let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u37	Madam President! Yes, the world has changed, and I think it is very good to anticipate and analyse situations also in the future. Even ships sail with their luck. The old saying is true. We don't know what we're up against. The Finnish Immigration Service is certainly not the only one where attention needs to be paid to security. We have emergency services, we have hospitals, we have school homes, we have ships, social services. There are a lot of different places where you can wonder if it is safe to work there, whether it is safe to do business there. It is very important that attention be paid to these issues, and I think that the idea of open doors in Finland would be a waste heap in many places. Doors should be locked and clear on who's coming in. Experts have been consulted in the preparation of this matter. Here, for example, the police department has taken into account the need to pay attention to the training of the security inspector. I am sure that it is precisely in these areas that any fears, as Mrs Tuppurainen, for example, raised here, will be able to point out that everything is happening right and proper, as it should be. Yes, that general law, which you raised, Mr Zyskowicz, was exactly what I would have liked to say myself. We could indeed consider all aspects of such a law. I myself have been working at night for years, so I know what it is to be in a situation where alarms start ringing and police patrols arrive because someone is trying to penetrate that work unit. Yes, those situations are very frightening and shocking, especially when working alone. They've got the drugs. It'll draw other people there, too, of course. You never know who is coming, so safety in general should be improved. How can we organise security training and the ability to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u38	Madam President! As we all said in the debate, such a change is needed to guarantee security for the employees of the Finnish Immigration Service under all circumstances, and that is a good thing. When we talk about the Finnish Immigration Service, it is of course clear that they are the body in this society which, to a large extent, also implements the political orientations of the Government's asylum policy action programme. It is therefore good to point out that we have certainly all read the news about how, for example, asylum seekers' legal security issues have deteriorated in Finland recently with this asylum policy action programme. If we look at the reasons why there may be problems, I am not in any way defending it now if someone causes disturbances, for example, in the Finnish Immigration Service, but I am referring to the fact that there may be causes, for example, in pure everyday desperation based on the fact that if a person knows that he is being sent to a dangerous area that Finland has classified as safe from other countries, then a person may be going into danger against his will. This may cause a variety of reactions in a person. Of course, it is not a question of blaming the employees of the Finnish Immigration Service on this issue either. They are working on the basis of the framework conditions set out politically in the Government's asylum policy action programme. However, it is good to remember that although the government denies political guidance in all its forms, the asylum policy action programme has actually undermined asylum seekers' rights in Finland. It would therefore also be justified to draw up a comprehensive assessment of how these weaknesses have taken place in practice and how we might be able to correct possible excesses in the future. A number of studies have already been launched and I would like to highlight the one that has not been launched and that is the report on Migri's activities in general. The Greens have suggested it many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u39	Mr President! This government's proposal for legislation on security measures in the Finnish Immigration Service and the amendment of Article 83 of the Private Security Services Act is indeed necessary and I warmly support it. Mr President! The Finnish Immigration Service makes big decisions for individuals, and in my experience they really do cause great emotions. I said here that I have made the proposals for expulsion which were most commonly based on the serious crimes that were one of the reasons for the total consideration of being able to present a person for expulsion from the country. However, I always learned that to these people — now I am talking about people of criminal origin — the conviction of the crime itself was not nearly as significant as the fact that they were being presented for expulsion from the country. So that is why we are now treating this Immigration Service as an instance that is truly affected by the great emotions, and sometimes, unfortunately, they can appear and even appear as acts of violence or attempts by them. So I am still repeating myself and saying that this government proposal is good and necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u40	Mr President! I hope that this bill will be seen and dealt with from the point of view of safety at work rather than as an asylum policy. In this respect, the level of occupational safety of the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service would be raised to the same level as in the Government, courts and internal affairs administration at the premises of the police and the Border Guard. In my opinion, there is indeed good justification for this right from the moment of the incidents that have actually occurred in these units. In this debate, security threats from other public services offices have also been raised: the Social Insurance Institution, social welfare offices, tax offices, schools, emergency clinics, perhaps other health care services. It is good that Mr Mykkänen said that he was prepared to look at these too and in what way. I think it is important to have a clearer picture of the security threats faced by the staff of these services. However, I hope that our society will be able to maintain and maintain the transparency that it currently has, that we do not need the guards at every school door or that all the customers at the emergency clinic of health centres need security controls. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u41	Mr President! I will take the floor to raise the point I have already made in reply that a general law of some kind should be considered. We now have about 30 pages on the proposal for security inspections at the Finnish Immigration Service, and it is said here that we have separate laws on security checks for the Government, Parliament, police and judicial offices. However, when we know that unfortunately social services and many other places also create dangerous situations or threatening situations, I wonder whether it is really appropriate, for example, for each agency to make its own law, as is the case here for the Finnish Immigration Service, which can still create images of what Mrs Tuppurainen has drawn attention to. In other words, to the Minister and to the Committee on Administration, which I understand will be on the table, I would really like to suggest that there should be a general law. Well, of course, when it addresses fundamental human rights, it is clear that even if the general law should be possible, then, for example, the head of the agency or someone else could make a concrete decision to introduce it at the office of the agency or some such more flexible system. In any case, the current practice, which seems to me to have its own law laid down for each agency, seems rather inappropriate to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u42	Madam President! And so much more that it is worth remembering that: Up to now, security checks have been carried out by various companies selling security services, but it must be remembered that these companies, when carrying out security checks there, do not have the right to go all the way to a person's check-up, but they are only there for the purpose that, if any trouble arises, they can then help these people. In other words, this goes in a way to the level that Parliament is, for example, in Parliament, in the government or in the courts, that is to say, the person who comes into the house to do business can be thoroughly checked to ensure that he does not bring with him something inappropriate, violent or suggestive of some toxic substances or the like. That is why this legislation needs to be updated. It must be remembered that Finland is a free country, that every traveler on that street can walk freely without fear of any inspections or others, but when you go to the agencies, in this case the Immigration Service, where there has been a clear risk of recent events and how the world has changed over the last few months or years, there is only reason to expect that the people who work there will be a safe working environment. It must be remembered that every conflict situation that arises there is potentially a danger and that an innocent person may lose his health and, at worst, his life. That is what is being rejected here, and with this change of legislation, the authorities are being given the opportunity to carry out inspections to prevent such unfortunate events. This is no more dramatic event, these laws have been laid down for this house, as well as for the Government, the courts and so on. This is a normal procedure, and I believe that the law is justified and, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the law must be put into effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u43	Mr President! I warmly support Mrs Zyskowicz's proposal to make this a general law. It could indeed be a Government decree, for example, which would make it effective. It might then have more of that legal assessment. It is certainly not appropriate for this to be imported here at every agency — the Social Insurance Institution, the Local Register Office and so on — if necessary. I'm going to have a little bit of an intervention in that substance law. This is where Mrs Parviainen talked about, among other things, the possibility of people becoming desperate behaviour and marginalisation from these decisions, and it was hoped, as I recall, that the wording was ‘to fight overdoing’. It must now be remembered that the blackmails that were introduced into the legislation to shorten the time for complaints, for example, have all taken place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. They are fully constitutional and in line with human rights agreements, so I do not know what is meant by excesses. Everyone always has discretion. No one has a crystal ball, and everyone there is sure to try their best, and that is why you can also appeal. But it cannot be that if a person is dissatisfied with a decision, it means that we somehow get so anxious about it that we don't even have the courage to talk about it and then we think, well, let him stay here now, because this is so difficult now that he disagrees. I absolutely believe that we must have clear rules on these matters. Every Finnish citizen and Finnish citizen here will have to comply with these decisions and valid decisions, each of us. It doesn't help a lot, no matter how much leg you're treading. Representative Juvonen suggested a good way to speak, that is to say to learn to go to difficult situations with the oral exercise so that you do not have to take the fists to help.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u44	Mr President! Realities must be identified and recognised, and so it is that the Finnish Immigration Service now needs security measures and this law is justified and supported. But there is always reason to ask why. Why are we at this point when, however, the interests of society should prevent conflicts in customer situations? And when we look at the reasons why the Finnish Immigration Service is now here, because special legislation is introducing security measures, it is mentioned that the processing times for dealing with asylum seekers seeking international protection have increased and that many applicants who are re-applicants are frustrated in their own process and cause negative feelings about the asylum interview situation and the processing of applications. The Finnish Immigration Service employees have also referred to this in their own petition. They face mistrust, frustration and aggression against the Agency from asylum seekers who feel that their application has not been dealt with with with sufficient precision from their point of view. I believe that this is a point where we should stop when we have also made strong speeches, including Mr Vihervuori, President of the Supreme Administrative Court, who has spoken about the lack of legal protection for asylum seekers. We must create not only the real means of defending ourselves against violent behaviour — workers need security — but also confidence in this society, they prevent aggressive behaviour that springs from this distrust, and to this, President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the processes of dealing with asylum seekers, the processes of processing their applications, are always smooth and that Finland in this respect would meet all the criteria of the rule of law in a handsome and ambitious manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u45	Mr President! This government proposal to improve the security of the Finnish Immigration Service must be supported. Workers' day care centres, offices, schools and hospitals should be allowed to work in peace. Increasing inequality is also conducive to increasing discontent, pain, frustration. When you face a wall in your life, it can raise your emotions to such a level that behavior control is no longer human. There's gonna be a lot of threats. These threats have also been experienced at Kela's offices. In the old days, there was a way in the countryside that when we left home, we put a broom behind the door and it was neat. You can count on no one to go into the house. The world has changed now. Times have changed, and now that we have proposed such a general law, then it is considered as a precaution to consider carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u46	Madam President! Mr Tuppurainen, you raised the possible reasons why this law is now necessary and, among other things, that people who are waiting there for their decisions are frustrated and experience mistrust and also aggression, and these are the underlying reasons why situations are uncertain and unstable and feelings of insecurity arise. I think it is very important that things are spoken in their true names. For example, when a person arrives in Finland — I understand at the border that some guidance and advice are now given on how to act in Finland and what is our legislation and how we should behave and how we should behave — so realistically it is said that things do not necessarily move forward quickly in Finland, that the decisions of office will last for our time, so they will also last for us Finns. When we wait for different decisions, it will take a very long time for answers to be received, and this is the cold fact. It causes frustration, it causes disappointment, and it is understandable that it can also cause those aggressions. But even in these matters, the heart is included, and the human encounter, whether he is a native Finn, whether he is a foreigner, is an asylum seeker, and it is said that, unfortunately, this is the case, and may also be supported in that process of feeling. Yes, it is understandable when you have to wait and feel for yourself whether things are deliberately stalled, that it is angry both Finnish and certainly asylum seekers, immigrants. In other words, this should be the way forward: humanely, taking into account everything and talking about things and telling us how we are going to do it. However, it is not running, it is not carelessly, it is making things and decisions in depth, and I think it is very important that we continue to have a thorough discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u47	Mr President! From trust in the authorities: In my experience, if we talk about asylum seekers, they themselves come from countries where there may be reason to distrust the authorities. In Finland, however, these authorities are expert professionals, know the law and follow good administration in every respect. And then my own experience is that they have good interaction skills to face customers and those difficult situations, so that there can certainly be talk, and I think that is what some workplaces have been taught. But it all comes from practical work and from the normal encounter with a person, so that in my opinion, Finnish officials deserve to be commended for doing their job well. Perhaps it is worth saying, however, as we have said, that the government's proposal on the law is necessary, but we must remember the reality that this is more of a preparation for those threats. Most of the customers of the Finnish Immigration Service, whether they are asylum seekers or — there are many others — for different reasons of residence permit or extension or other, behave normally and properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u48	Madam President! I listened with amazement to Mrs Tuppurainen's speech. I personally do not sign that SDP’s view, which seeks to find reasons for the aggression of the Finnish Immigration Service’s customers in Finnish society. It is not the fault of the slowness of the Finnish official machinery or the official machinery. Frustration is a human emotion, but it does not in any way lead to violence and aggression on the part of a civilized person. Sometimes I get frustrated with those SDP stuff and logic. The purpose of this increase in Migri's safety level is to increase Migri's safety level. This should not lead to any other conclusions that go too far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u49	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u50	Madam President! The success of 100-year-old Finland has been very much based on the ability to renew. As a small nation, we cannot afford to rely on the past. As part of the global economy, Finland must take care of its own competitiveness. We need to be able to identify international change trends. Let me give you one example: in the 1980s, technological developments questioned the rationality of the provision of telecommunications services as a state monopoly. Finland was then at the forefront of understanding the growing social and economic importance of the telecommunications sector. In fact, the telecommunications market was opened up to full competition in a phase-by-step and controlled manner. Today, Finland has excellent and affordable international broadband connections that serve all Finns and offer unlimited new opportunities. Nevertheless, over the last 10 years we have had to recognise that the reputations of history alone are not enough to carry us forward and to safeguard our pioneering position in the world of future digitalisation. Today we are lagging behind in many other countries as regards the use of information, digitalisation and automation. The most important challenge has been to apply new technologies and, above all, to break down the structures of traditional activities and lead to a change of pace towards a new world. That is why we must dare to make bold decisions on which the present draft law is based, not least so that we can catch up with other people's lead in digital development. We need a sense of purpose to redeem our place among the pioneers of digitalisation. The international megatrend is that knowledge is a critical factor in future business and a key to success. Information is being generated around us at an ever - increasing rate. Knowledge of leadership is becoming one of the key competitive factors in the ongoing digital transformation. Finland is well placed to use information as a competitive factor in global markets. Knowledge and technology in Finland are not lacking. Knowledge itself does not bring economic growth or potential welfare developments. The information generated must be processed and made available to key needs in the right form and at the right time. This requires an enabling environment and technological implementation models. Finland does not need to position itself as a northern periphery. We have every opportunity in the future to act as an international hub for the movement of information, people and goods. To strengthen this position, we must link our advanced digital infrastructure with new types of automated transport services and build a seamless whole of them. To realise this vision, we need to reform the role of the transport authorities. This is not the first and certainly not the last time that official activities are renewed to serve the future and to ensure Finland’s ability to strike in international competition. At the Ministry of Transport and Communications, we have abandoned the traditional division into transport and communication policy. Society is now being examined in the Ministry through three entities: services, information and networks. These three themes combine both traffic and communication. Unprejudiced and forward-looking organisation has contributed to the fact that, during this reign, we have been able to carry through important reforms for our society in the transport and communications services market. Mr President! Today, I present to you a government proposal to transform road, maritime and rail traffic control and management services under the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Agency into a limited liability company. This proposal is based on the Government's guidelines of the Ministry of Economic Policy Committee, which was adopted by the Committee in June 2017. As traffic automation and digitalisation progress, traffic management and traffic management will play a more important role in ensuring traffic flow and safety. This highlighted role puts considerable pressure on the development of traffic management. We must ensure that traffic management is organised in such a way that it is able to meet the challenges and changing customer needs of a rapidly developing industry and that the structures offer the best opportunities to take advantage of the new opportunities brought about by change. The companying of the Finnish Transport Agency’s traffic management functions now being presented prepares for the changes in the operating environment brought about by the digitalisation, serviceisation and automation of transport. Companies will promote the use of transport-related information to support the development of new digital services and contribute to the emergence of new business. In addition, this change would create the conditions for improving the customer orientation of operational traffic management services and increase the economic efficiency and effectiveness of traffic management activities. Traffic management is an operational activity. Its organisation in the form of a company enables benefits that cannot be achieved within the Agency. Some of the traffic management functions of the Finnish Transport Agency have already been outsourced to companies. However, the Finnish Transport Agency still has quite a wide range of tasks related to traffic management activities. Activities in the form of enterprises enable better conditions for the development of traffic management systems and services and for the long-term implementation of investments. A good example of this is aviation, where a company-based activity in air navigation services has been commonplace for a long time. The benefits are not only economic, they also mean more customer-oriented services that benefit the entire Finnish transport market in the global competition for new digital and automated transport services. On the basis of the present proposal, the maritime, road and rail traffic control activities under the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Agency, as well as the design, support and procurement activities and information systems that are central to them, would be incorporated. Functions to be consolidated The staff of the Finnish Transport Agency would be transferred to the new company on the basis of the principles of business transfer. The company to be set up would be a state-owned special purpose vehicle for traffic control. The company would start operating at the beginning of 2019. The company's primary task would be to ensure the smooth operation and safety of road, sea and rail transport. This would be done by providing services related to traffic control and management. In line with the specific task assigned to the companies, the company would provide services, in particular to competent authorities, such as transport administration agencies, the Defence Forces, the Border Guard, rescue authorities and the police. The aim is to establish a strong, investment-intensive, cost-effective and moderately profitable state-owned company. In the future, the Finnish Transport Agency would be the subscriber of traffic management and management services and the strategic partner of the transport management company to be set up. The Finnish Transport Agency would order the necessary traffic management and management services needed by society, public authorities and the business community from a new special-purpose state company to be set up, which would be free of charge for service users in accordance with the principles of the current operating model. This change is not intended to result in the collection of new fees from citizens or customers. The aim of the company to be set up would be to contribute to the growth of the overall transport market and to the development of the private sector service provision. The company’s objective would not be to compete with market players. The present amendment would, above all, support the development of new services resulting from digital transport, by providing the widest possible range and transparent access to traffic information used and generated in the context of traffic management. The transparency of information would be ensured by legislation. At the same time, the data protection of data classified by the authorities and of business secret data would be ensured. The company would also process information for the benefit of other service providers in digital business. The aim is to broaden the accessibility of information to create new digital services and services markets and to lower the threshold for entry for new entrepreneurs. In line with the national growth programme in the transport sector, the company would become a strong partner for transport companies. The company would actively seek partnerships to accelerate the development of market-based products and services. In addition, the company would strive to make innovative acquisitions by offering companies a test environment for the development and experimentation of new solutions. Successful R & D projects would make it easier and faster for companies to enter international markets. One of the company’s policy principles would be to promote business and export-driven growth in the industry as a collaborative effort between the research sector, the public sector and the private sector. Close and strongly interactive cooperation would be able to increase the overall transport market, from which growth would allow more to be shared to all operators in the sector. The organisation of traffic management services and their information systems in the form of a company would improve traffic management at the level of the transport system. This amendment would harmonise traffic management services and create the conditions for a wider search for synergies between different modes of transport. This would also improve the reliability of traffic management, risk management and ensure efficient and high level of information security. The new company would generate skills related to traffic system levels, technical and traffic management services covering all modes of transport. This would benefit, for example, the long-term development of road safety work, thereby creating the conditions for improving road safety across the whole transport system. A company-based activity would be transparent with regard to the use of income, costs and capital when the public limited liability company publishes its annual financial statements. The company would seek profitability and efficiency, which in turn would increase the need to understand the needs of customers, improve customer service and help develop services that meet customer needs. On the other hand, the resources needed to provide the service, such as investments, would be designed on the terms of customers and profitability. This would make the operation more efficient by better knowing the cost of production of service products. The company’s ability to use the financial markets flexibly to finance investments would also improve its ability to make investments more flexible and long-term. The proposal takes into account the fact that traffic management activities are closely linked to effective cross-sectoral cooperation between authorities and an information exchange environment that supports this activity using new technologies. These will ensure a continuous and up-to-date picture of the traffic situation of the authorities, their ability to anticipate and identify potential risks related to traffic safety and traffic flow. Close cooperation in traffic management improves the operating capacity of public authorities at operational level to carry out their own administrative transport-related tasks. The proposal contains the necessary amendments to the industry legislation. In particular, amendments to the Ship Traffic Services Act, the Regional Control Act and the Maritime Rescue Act ensure continued cooperation between public authorities and a State-owned and company-based traffic control and management service provider. At the same time, the integration would strengthen the conditions for the development and continuity of cross-administrative cooperation between authorities as the operating environment becomes digital and as the automation of traffic increases. The long-term objective is that in future some of the traffic management and management services ordered by the Finnish Transport Agency could be competitive in the new markets created by this incorporation. This would involve other market players in the transport sector in the provision of basic traffic management services. This creates more pressure for the company to develop its operations even more customer-oriented and cost-effectively. The establishment of a special government mission company would be in the ownership management of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The company’s guidance would be based on the corporate governance of state-owned companies, industry legislation and the regulations and instructions issued on the basis of it by the public authorities. In addition, the company’s guidance would be based on the content of a service contract with the Finnish Transport Agency, which is central to its business. After the company was set up in early 2019, the state traffic control group would be formed by adding previously incorporated entities Air Navigation Services Finland and Finrail Oy from the Finnish Transport Agency. Mr President! The proposed incorporation would create new growth in the transport market. It would improve the accessibility of traffic information, increase the economic efficiency of traffic management and promote customer orientation of services for the benefit of all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u51	Mr President! In honour of Minister Berner, it must be said that he has courageously looked to the future and sought the opportunities that exist in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and this time we are making use of digitalisation, as the Minister here has just explained in an excellent way. To this courage and far-sightedness I give great credit. Thus, large-scale reforms are underway in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The Government's proposal now under discussion for a law on the transformation of the Finnish Transport Agency's traffic control and management services into a limited liability company is part of these reforms. Transport and mobility will be revolutionised in the future, thanks to digitalisation. We must therefore be able to look at movement in a completely new way, as is the case here. This reform will also stimulate activities in the Ministry's administrative sector to better respond to future development needs for transport. The question is that the whole package of traffic control is to be taken over by the state-owned special purpose company. The traffic control company is therefore a state-owned special task company, just as at the moment Finavia is responsible for airports or Arctia, which specialises in icebreaking. From the Finnish Transport Agency to the Transport Control Agency, the tasks of steering road transport, maritime transport and rail transport are transferred. The operations of the traffic management company are based on a contractual strategic partnership with the Finnish Transport Agency. However, the purpose of the company is not to compete with private operators, but to create a strong partner for transport companies. The purpose of the transport management company is therefore to promote the use of traffic information and to support the development of the transport ecosystem while at the same time strengthening the business conditions of transport companies, and, as the Minister has said very well here in his presentation, this will provide more to be shared. A number of operational objectives have been set for the transport management company. It must be cost-effective and faster to respond to market changes and customer needs. The company can use debt financing. The Transport Management Group makes use of the economics of size and thus creates synergies, and it clarifies the roles of the various activities. Mr President! It is therefore a state-owned, profit-making special purpose company with the ability to invest and develop its own activities. It is important to ensure effective cross-administrative cooperation between authorities and to take account of the needs of business and customers. The staff, with their duties, responsibilities and responsibilities, shall be transferred to the employment contract relationship of the company to be set up by the Agency. In addition, care must be taken to ensure the smooth functioning and continuity of services during and, of course, after the change. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the level of government fees does not increase compared to the current level. In Finland, the state of the transport infrastructure is one of the main challenges facing us at the moment. We definitely need more funding for better management of the transport infrastructure. One of the major competitive advantages of long distances and a sparsely populated country is that it has transport routes in order, whether it is about you or rail or air transport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u52	Madam President! After the two previous speeches and on the subject of the presentation, we must agree with the final conclusion, which is to say that bringing these activities together is a good idea. I personally do not see the bliss of this incorporation as a particularly important part of this. A few remarks. We know what might result from the incorporation. Of course, you shouldn't be afraid of the future. If it remains a state-owned special-purpose company, then we should feel relieved, but in some respects, as a left-winger, always through the incorporation of state property and government agencies, there is that warning voice. We have seen what happens, for example, when things have been delivered to Caruna. Of course, you can hear compliments if you just... [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] But just a few comments on all of this. When a decision is made for the sector and for its renewal to be incorporated, there are some ways to begin to see that, as we discussed the Finnish Meteorological Institute in the previous week, some similar service production has now been put together in this same performance, which is already being done by the Finnish Meteorological Institute. Will this be an institution competing with the Finnish Meteorological Institute as a state company, or should it have been noted at this stage of preparation that, when the Finnish Meteorological Institute collects and provides traffic data, it is now, in a way, using the services that are produced online, when we already have excellence in the Finnish Meteorological Institute in what changes in airspace cause traffic and so on. So I would've missed the thought of weighing more of it. Yes, when we have the Defence Forces and the Border Guard with us, it is always at that point — although the Minister pointed out that these services are provided free of charge to those to whom they are now being produced — in any event, a company or a company which produces profits in moderation is operating within the legal framework. If we have a company governed by the law on limited liability companies, it is operating under the law on limited liability companies. Even if it is a special company of the State, in any case, when we produce these services for the important institutions of the State, they aim to make a profit because that is the way the company operates.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u53	Mr President! There has really been a significant change in this parliamentary term. As far as companies are concerned, I recall that at the beginning of the parliamentary term, Finnair, Finavia, VR were all in more or less operational difficulties. At present they are in a very strong blow, serving and doing their work well. I am sure that the ministry will also be grateful for this, and that is important. Indeed, during this parliamentary term, a change of direction has been made to me that has been seen as a transport service, a customer-oriented service, in which borders are being cut down, where digitalisation is being used to form a set of services. This is not, Mr Myllykoski, any old-fashioned thinking, but really new thinking that serves people and the renewal that the Minister spoke about at the beginning. It is important that we have been able to improve the impact and service performance of traffic in this situation. As Mr Anttila said earlier, we also need more funding for the transport sector. It has now happened very much here on the repair side, but the challenges are very big. However, I see precisely this extract of reform, automation, digitalisation and even robotization as good, and I am pleased that, in this respect too, The Sipilä government is moving forward strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u54	Mr President! I would like to thank the idea of turning traffic control and management services into a separate state-owned company. This change responds to the challenges of a changing world and enables us to remain at the forefront of the automation process in transport. The company is more agile than the agency, so the change makes it possible to react more quickly to technological developments and to change the opportunities of the world. In the future, as technology develops, all means of transport will have the opportunity to travel without drivers. This is already a reality in many cities, for example in metro transport. In addition, there are a lot of automatic cars in circulation for testing purposes and even ships are piloted. Trains and planes also follow. The world is fast moving towards greater automation and greater use of robotics. It is important for Finnish legislation and public administration to keep up with this development in order to ensure that we are ready for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u55	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this reform proposed by the Government is to develop and strengthen strategic governance in the administrative sector and to gain synergies in a changing environment. In general, the change in traffic as the amount of information increases and digitalisation develops requires an overall picture of the changes from the Authority in order to enable the transport infrastructure to serve users as efficiently as possible. The transport network and the smooth planning and management of transport services play a vital role in economic growth, housing and the environment. That is what we all know. With regard to this organisational model, it can be said briefly at this stage that the division of the Finnish Transport Agency, and in particular the incorporation of traffic management services into a special state-owned company in which the Agency would be a subscriber organisation, is, in my view, likely to rigidise the structures. I feel that the form of a limited liability company reduces transparency and therefore also makes it more difficult to control the activities compared to the activities of the public authorities. Given the main nature of traffic control centres as safety authorities, it is difficult to understand why operators receiving nominal income from their services should be incorporated, and it would be good to have an answer to this question today from the Minister. As far as this impact assessment is concerned, the proposal includes an assessment of the administrative savings, but it is not in a position to estimate the costs of the combination at all. The proposal lacks an analysis of how the current organisational model prevents the sharing of synergies and best practices between agencies. With regard to the incorporation, reference is made only to the utilisation of the potential of traffic-related information, but the proposal does not include an estimate or a study of how much of the total transport market could be used as revenue from the company’s business. As far as the balance sheet is concerned, more than EUR 200 million of control and information systems for different modes of transport are being transferred to the new special purpose company. It would also be useful to provide an assessment of how the company will finance the maintenance and renewal of these systems in the future. Madam President! Today we have also read from Helsingin Sanomat about the lack of clarity of this law. I very much hope that the committee's work will take this into account and then, on the basis of expert consultations, the Ministry will also be prepared to consider carefully whether this bill is on the right track, as it were. Cooperation between the various authorities must not be weakened in any way either after this incorporation, and this point also requires very careful preparation in our committee work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u56	Madam President! It is quite clear that we need to respond to the world and, in this case, to the changes in transport in particular. Digitalisation, robotisation and the increasing number of services in the transport sector (a) are facts, and we must acknowledge to Minister Berner that the Minister has had the courage to make various openings and ideas for this response. But here, like Mrs Myllykoski, I would like to raise a little warning finger and emphasise that it is also a question of how this response is done. In this case, it has been sought as a model of a state-owned speciality company, which, by way of permission, has now become far more radical proposals in recent times, some of which have been rejected. When you say (a), you must also think about it (b) or think about the situation in the future when this company is operating, these services are distributed or sold. At some point there will be a debate as to whether this is a central task of the state, whether it is at the heart of state ownership policy to be involved in the business of transport services, and then it will be readily compared with civilization, health services or the Defence Forces and others. The question then arises as to how we will ensure that this remains under the clear leadership of the State and, therefore, of Parliament, that such a threat does not materialise, that for a short time this but will then be sold out and then cashed out and collected in a completely different logic than is envisaged at this early stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u57	Madam President! In this regard, the Government proposes that the current traffic management and management services of the Finnish Transport Agency be converted into a limited liability company and that the tasks be transferred to the establishment of a special government company. This is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year, and the task of this new country's special task group is to ensure the smooth running and safety of transport in maritime, rail and road transport and to provide traffic management services. It is true that people want more and more to move more comfortably and faster and we also need to prepare for the future. A few weeks ago, the Section for Transport of Finances visited the Dutch ITS seminar and there was a lot of discussion about the future of self-directed cars. We already have testing in Finland, Muonio, on the Aurora project. At the same time, unfortunately, we heard at that intelligent traffic seminar how one person had died in America driven over by this kind of self-guided car. Unfortunately, the technology is not yet sufficiently advanced to make commercial use of it, but this is progressing all the time. As far as I am concerned, I agree with Mr Taimela, who spoke earlier, who said that I am not particularly fond of this model of limited liability company. Surely this would have been better dealt with in another way. I hope, of course, as Mrs Anttila and many people have said, that more funding will be available for transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u58	Mr President! I have great reservations about the incorporation of road, maritime and rail traffic control functions in the draft law as part of the reform of the Office of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. In particular, the incorporation of VTS activities, i.e. maritime shipping services, raises major questions about the future of cooperation between authorities, for example. For example, the Finnish Maritime Transport Directors Association (maritime traffic directors’ association) has stated that the effective cooperation of Finnish maritime traffic management with the Finnish Defence Forces, the Border Guard, the police, Customs and Trafi would be undermined. With the incorporation of companies, maritime traffic control loses its official status. Under threat, for example, there is the right to use the Defence Forces' radar network. VTS is a full public authority activity, which is also strongly regulated by international regulations, and should therefore be dealt with as a whole in the reform of traffic management functions. For example, in a possible exceptional situation, VTS operations are extremely important for the control and safety of Finnish territorial waters. Last year, the VTS Centres prevented at least ten accidents and, at the same time, prevented possible environmental disasters. For example, the Western Finland Maritime Transport Centre is responsible for vessel traffic control from the west coast of Finland, west of Hanko, all the way to Tornio. Action is very important to Finland. It is up to the decision-makers to ensure that this work can continue to be done as well as possible. It is therefore irrelevant to ask how the definition of authority and responsibilities in an exceptional situation will be handled in a new company. There are currently three VTS centres operating in Finland, which provide information, traffic organisation and navigation services defined in the Ship Traffic Services Act 24 hours a day. I hope that the committee will have the wisdom and discretion to deal with the matter now that we have a debate there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u59	Mr President! I myself am not so afraid of this incorporation, because it is only a form of governance. However, I would like to ask the ministers here: what do you think about corporate governance and perhaps even parliamentary governance in that situation, if I have understood correctly, that a subsidiary will come here? We have a state-owned speciality company, and then there will be a subsidiary for rail transport, for road transport and for maritime transport, and that is probably a good thing, because then knowledge will focus on just a specific task, and this limited liability company will probably be more flexible and there will be no need to apply everywhere for the licence and permission that might otherwise be required. But I myself think that when the company has to have a government and yet the operation is about the whole country and perhaps even across the country, how to ensure the people who are there in the board of directors of the limited liability company, and what kind of government it will be and the supervision of the subsidiaries — that they will certainly serve the whole country, so that the operations do not focus too much on specific areas and certain issues that are more concerned with intelligent transport, that this arrangement will then serve the whole country — and how this corporate governance will be carried out. These are the things I myself wonder about and what is this Statute and whether it comes to Parliament or how it goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u60	Mr President! We live in an evolving world, and competition everywhere is really hard, harder and harder all the time. We are in a global field of action, and we must also closely monitor similar activities in other countries, how they proceed with them. Thank you to the opposition for being awake to this. It may also be that in committee we receive things from you which we in the government parties themselves do not necessarily notice. Thank you at this point. We must be ready in Finland for a rapid response in these areas too. Our industry is totally dependent on what is happening in the rest of the world all the time. Exports and export products are very important to us, how freight is handled in water transport, how road transport is handled, how communication is handled. Our tourism is entirely dependent on how air transport works. When a lot of changes are rapidly taking place in society and globally, I believe and see that with this new organisational model we can better respond to that situation, we are in the spirit of time and we could also make important incomes for our society and we wouldn't have any bigger problems in these matters. Ownership control is extremely important, that it really works well here. This is going to be a special government agency. Let's make sure it stays that way, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u61	Would the Minister like to respond? - Three minutes tops, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u62	Madam President! I would like to thank you for these feedbacks and points of view and to raise a few points. As far as the Meteorological Institute is concerned, it is a very different activity. Traffic management is above all an operational activity, and we have had aviation traffic management, for example, for a long time now, as well as rail transport, in a company-based way. The law on transport services requires the opening of information on routes, stops, timetables, prices and accessibility. In addition to this, the aim now is to achieve transparency in terms of conditions and traffic management. So when we talk about this future company, we are talking specifically about traffic control, that is, so-called traffic management, not so much about the condition information that comes from the Meteorological Institute. The Defence Forces have been working together on their own traffic management in aviation for very many years now, and it has been carried out by company-based activities. What is really at issue here is that, in the past, air traffic control and rail traffic control have been incorporated into the same system, the rest, namely road transport and maritime transport, as well as the rest, are now incorporated into the same system. This brings agility in particular, and it is therefore possible to develop and produce better services more quickly when starting from customer orientation. In my own experience, customer orientation usually produces better service. When we seek transparency and compare, for example, current road traffic management, how transparent is that system in your view and how much control do you have over all the assets, balance sheet items or revenue involved? If you compare, for example, the figures of ANS Finland or the former Finavia, which are regulated by the Companies Act, the Act of Incorporatement, the Act of Industry, Customer Guidance and Ownership Guidance, then of course we have quite different information about these activities. Under no circumstances is privatisation sought. Above all, we are looking for a specific task, which is governed by a law which also provides for jurisdiction and procedure, and it is good to remember that these decisions are always ultimately Parliament's own decisions. With regard to the VTS, I would point out that the VTS is not a question of public authority activity but of an operational traffic management activity involving four types of regulatory decision. These decisions by the authorities do not fall within the scope of this company's activities, but are, as this proposal suggests, transferred to Traf and the Border Guard. And administration, of course, as is already the case under the law, that this service is produced throughout the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u63	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. We have two ministers here to introduce you. The presentations will be initiated by Minister Lintilä. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u64	Madam President! The Government's proposal now under discussion contains two sets of proposals for regional development and growth services. There are no substantive changes to the regulation on the development of regions. In the future, the regions will act as regional development authorities and in the next programming period also as intermediary institutions for the EU Structural Funds. The draft law does not alter existing regional development responsibilities in other respects and does not reduce the vigour of municipalities. In future, cross-sectoral discussions between the state and municipalities on the objectives and implementation of regional development will be held annually. The purpose of these discussions is to establish a common vision and to promote cooperation between ministries and regions. It is up to the State to look at the whole country, its province and its own territory. With good cooperation, these levels provide a functional whole that supports the growth and vitality of the country as a whole. Mr President! Secondly, the draft law contains provisions on growth services. The reform will transfer government tasks to future provinces, clarify services and increase their customer orientation. Growth services refer to employment and business services of existing TE Offices and Ely Centres. These include, for example, the employment services, the development of job seekers’ skills, recruitment services or various support and expert services for the development of businesses’ business. The region would be responsible for organising employment and business promotion services. Therefore, the reform of growth services has no impact on the tasks of municipalities. Poik-keus is a separate solution in Uusimaa, where the responsibility for organising the organisation would lie with a joint municipal authority formed by Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa and Kauniainen instead of the region. Other municipalities in Uusimaa may also join this joint municipal authority if they so wish. Current services for job seekers, employers and businesses do not move from the state to the regions as such, but at the same time reform the content of the services and the way they are produced. In order to guarantee the rights of equality between people, the basic level of service is secured throughout Finland. Otherwise, the provinces themselves will be able to influence the services they provide on their territory. This is an improvement on the current situation, as the needs of job seekers and businesses vary and solutions made according to one fashion do not work for everyone. The provinces also decide whether to purchase services on the market or to produce them themselves. Opening up the market aims at new types of services in order to make it easier for employees and employers to face up to the current situation. However, all tasks involving significant public power, such as subsidies or compensation decisions, will always remain a matter for the authorities. In the future, the responsibility of social services and employment services rests on the same shoulders.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u67	Madam President! First of all, what is the reason for this reform: Its objective is to promote sustainable economic growth, the development of regions, and then employment and employment, as well as the conditions for businesses to operate through state and regional measures and the services they provide. Indeed, in the future, as service providers, the provinces will be able to define and obtain service solutions from the needs of their region. Well, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is now responsible for the national growth services, which Minister Lintilä has already mentioned. Just a few words on this legislative preparation, which was also heard a moment ago: Indeed, separate laws will come in May, and then in the autumn the laws on the management of information on growth services and the transfer of unemployment security tasks from the Employment and Economic Development Offices to Kela and unemployment funds, as well as the law on financial responsibility for labour market support will come. Much has been said about growth service pilots and what they are now aiming at. These pilots support provinces and service providers in moving to new operating models. The Ely Centres and Employment and Economic Development Offices are launching projects adapted to the needs and situations of the regions and are now taking the first steps towards diversifying the production structure of growth services, i.e. experimenting with the future world. The aim is also to experiment with competitive operating models and stimulate the market. The pilots experiment with different content — a business customer, a job seeker customer — and implementation models such as purchasing services, entrepreneurship, partnership and alliance. These will start at the end of this year and between early 2019, and the contracts will continue for example until the end of 2020, which will ensure the continuity of services in this transition phase. Then maybe just a few words about this growth service alliance. Indeed, this is now a new line of action as a change to that draft opinion. This will encourage the implementation of regional business and employment services as well as municipal vitality services in combination with the alliance model, and the regions can agree to compete with municipalities operating in their own territory together with the growth services under the responsibility of organising the regions and the vital functions to be coordinated with the growth services provided by the municipality or municipalities. The competition therefore seeks suitable partners in the growth service alliance, and the alliance is based on a joint agreement between the province, municipalities and service providers. The Parties shall be responsible for the planning and implementation of growth services and services related to the vital functions of the municipal sector jointly, through a joint organisation, and shall share the benefits and risks associated with this project and shall, of course, respect the principles of transparency of all information. A few concerns have, of course, already come about along the way, for example, with regard to questions such as how this will now be viewed by municipalities in terms of subsidised work, workshop activities or Ohjaamo activities. The reform does not change how municipalities can make use of pay subsidies. For example, municipalities can hire unemployed people for workshop activities with a pay subsidy without the municipality having to change its current policy. The fact that the Province will continue to grant pay subsidies instead of TE Offices does not affect the activities of the beneficiary organisations. This reform does not affect the workshop activities funded by municipalities either. Regions and growth service providers will continue to be able to send unemployed people to a workshop such as the one they currently offer. Good experience has been gained from the operation of the cockpit and will continue. For young people under the age of 30, we offer services from the public, private and third sectors under the same roof, and we currently have 41 of these service points across the country, and new ones through the ongoing European Social Fund project search There'll probably be more cockpits. Then the question of why regional experiments are not continued: we are launching new pilot projects based on regional development and growth services legislation. In other words, these pilot projects are coming from all areas of the Ely Centres, probably more, and these pilot projects will then be able to use the experience of these good regional experiments to develop their own growth services. They're not going to go to waste. Then there is the question that does this now mean that we think that current services are somehow bad. Services are not bad, but the tasks and services currently carried out by the state must be transferred to the province in a way that leaves self-government to ensure regional growth, so that the regions are well placed to organise service solutions that meet their needs in the future. In other words, they themselves will be able to influence it, and this will certainly benefit both jobseekers and business customers. According to the private sector, coming can also create new service solutions based on customer needs. Mr President! I'm sorry too: it's hard to be in two places at the same time, and I'm being yelled at in that box line. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u70	That would be a very good thing to do. — Let us have a brisk debate, and let those who want an answer now stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u71	Mr President! The previous Council of Presidents did not know that ministers could not be present. I think it would be reasonable to leave this matter on the table and deal with it when both ministers are present. I am well aware that ministers are in a hurry to defend their own affairs in the spending limits debate, and in fact I would like Minister Lindström to go there and defend the employment budget, because they are essential in what will happen in the future. But as far as this law is concerned, I would like you to answer me with a wire of iron when there is a hurry: how the province will order a combination of social services and employment services. This law dismantles our multi-service centres, which are the award-winning innovation at EU level that social and health services, rehabilitation in Kela and employment services are at the same point. But now that the war, even though it is there within the province, runs on its own logic and the employment services are ordered, what is the fakir who orders these services together? No one has been able to answer that question so far. And when this is built on this idea, I hope that the Minister will be able to respond to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u72	It was discussed here that it is now the wish of Parliament that this law should be discussed when the ministers are present, is it not? However, this motion cannot be made during the replies, but must be made during the actual speeches, so I will open the actual speeches now, and Mr Sarkkinen will be on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u73	Chairman! I have prepared a long speech, but in view of this situation, I will only make a proposal that Parliament should leave it on the table until we are able to deal with it in such a way that the ministers are also present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u74	It's worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u75	Mr President! This is, of course, one of the most important legislative proposals from the point of view of regional law, and it is, of course, a good thing that ministers could be here on the spot. Of course, there is still a great deal of time for this to be dealt with in the committees, but if, Mr President, I could support it in such a way that, if at all possible, this law would come to the debate on referrals tomorrow. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u76	Just give me a minute. We're negotiating here. Mr Sarkkinen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for tomorrow's plenary session, is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u77	Mr President! I did not determine whether there would be tomorrow, but a plenary session where ministers or at least one of the ministers could be present during the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u78	Let us take a short break, namely when ministers will be able to be present is now open. Let's stop this session for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u79	It's been two minutes. Congressman Sarkkinen wants to be more specific.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u80	Mr President! I would like to clarify my proposal in so far as I propose that the matter should be left on the table for next Wednesday, so that the ministers can also be present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u81	Mr Sarkkinen has proposed that the matter be put on the table next Wednesday due to the presence of ministers at the plenary session next Wednesday. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u82	Mr President! I cannot define any other time for this, but my question is in the direction of the President. However, when this issue of growth services and the Growth Services Act is part of this major regional and social reform, does the fact that this is now being postponed until next Wednesday, the issue of growth services, in any way, put forward a timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u83	There is no danger in that way, because we already know which committees are dealing with this, so that the committees can move on. But since this is a very important legislative package, it is important and I respect Parliament's will to have ministers present. According to the information we have received, next Tuesday will not be possible, because there will be a debate on the spending limits. It'd go to the next Wednesday. We do not know for certain whether Minister Lintilä is here, but now that we have time to prepare next Wednesday for Minister Lintilä's direction too, I believe that next Wednesday would be the time. And I would also like to say that Mr Lindström and I also discussed Thursday, that is to say tomorrow, and Friday, but unfortunately he is prevented from doing both. So it would be Wednesday, and by Wednesday you will be able to adjust your schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u84	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 1/2018 vp. The content of the proposal for a decision is now decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-11-ps-33.u85	Madam President! After all, this need for change is based on the desire to ensure that all political groups are represented in the Commission and, in that sense, it can be said that this type of change must be supported and rightly and fairly. It is extremely important that every single political group with a parliamentary group can contribute to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and then to all parliamentary activities and the like.
