ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 18 April 2018. With the support of Mr Pilvi Torst, Timo Harakka has tabled two motions for statements under protest 1. In addition, Jari Ronkainen Ritva, supported by Elomaa, has made 3 statements, which have been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Mr Haraka's protests against Amendments Nos 1 and 2 and Mr Ronkainen's multiple statements Nos 1 to 3 will be put to the vote against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. On 11 April 2018, the Council of Presidents proposed that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. The matter was put on the table at the meeting on 11 April 2018 at the plenary session on 18 April 2018. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 18 April 2018. In the debate, Mr Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Mrs Lauri Ihalainen, has proposed, contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u4	We must vote on the referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u6	Mr President! I'll try to make a presentation in two minutes. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Sitra’s activity report, which includes the Board’s opinion, is distributed, and pages 8 and 9 describe well the larger projects that belonged to last year. These include the promotion of the circular economy and the introduction of efficiency investments. In these, Sitra has demonstrated permanently that it, as an agile actor, is able to achieve something that the other system is not really capable of. In addition to these well-known projects, projects at system level that are essential for the future have also been included in its remit. These include, for example, the key role of the national gateway in KaPa's initial parameters, the preparation of a new authorisation authority offering welfare data from one door or the development of social media information packages. This kind of groundwork is extremely important, even though the complexity and technicality do not often attract widespread attention. What I would like and what was hoped for in the Board of Directors is that this year, when the Parliament is discussing the report, it is as if it reaffirms the legitimacy of its basic approach to Sitra. Sitra’s law is being clarified this year, and it is important that Sitra’s special role as a social risk taker and agile operator is taken into account in this work. Inappropriate legal administrative bodies must not paralyse the functioning of the house of the future. In short, Sitra should not, or should not, be led towards an agency-style operation, but must have the ability to take risks and act quickly, and I hope that the committee, when dealing with the report, will consider this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Sitra's annual report and financial statements were nice to read, the Finnish Future House. Last year Sitra was 50 years old, that was the time Sitra was founded, and Sitra, as stated here, was the gift of the Parliament and the Bank of Finland to independent Finland, who celebrated the 50th anniversary, a forward-looking gift. This activity report highlights in a good way the measures taken by: Sitra has highlighted, for example, long-term work on the circular economy and around many other topics. For example, the carbon-neutral circular economy was prominent in the past year, and Sitra’s big effort was this major conference of world circular economy developers in Finland last June. This is an extremely important and interesting package, as well as the capacity-to-reform part presented in this document, as well as the new working life and the sustainable economy. When the chairman of Sitra’s Board of Directors, Mr Vanhanen, gave a presentation, I would actually like to ask you as a long-standing politician, even as a former Prime Minister, about this significance of Sitra. At the end of last year, the SDP proposed that EUR 355 million be taken from this Finnish Independence Fund Sitra's balance sheet. Fortunately, at the time, it was stated in this Chamber that the existing law — I think it was Mr Ala-Nissila, who raised this point — prevents such a robbery by Sitra by the Social Democrats from being able to do,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u12	Mr President! It is wonderful that this world-class congress on the circular economy last summer is remembered and praised here. By the way, I think I was the only or at least one of the few representatives who were present at that magnificent event, which really brought together a wide range of expertise from the world in this area, and I must admit that it was a thrilling experience. What is Sitra’s balance sheet is a side-effect. More important is the way it works. Just a few days ago, the SDP parliamentary group met with Sitra's leadership, and in a very good spirit, future cooperation was planned, and here is the real news: we are ready to increase Sitra's operational resources for the important work it does, and above all, this circular economy is one of the things already found in the SDP's alternative budget business package. It is a huge opportunity for Finland's export industry, environmental technology and, of course, for the community structure, and that is why there are many projects in which we will cooperate and in which, in any case, the next government will have to make use of Sitra's expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u13	Mr President! Indeed, it is very important, now that this activity report and then this future law are in Parliament, that a debate be held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy already in connection with this report on the role which Sitra is required to play in general and what are the tasks which Sitra is good to carry out today. I myself am also one of those circular economy fans, if you can say so, so I think it is a very important area for the future, which is highlighted in Sitra's activities. Mr Heinonen once again used colorful terms in this Socialist proposal, but because we have sought a purely future perspective, as I have said before, that part of the balance sheet should be put to work and produce something new and productive and innovative, such as new ways of developing school repairs or other such — one-off income for one-off new productive and growth-enhancing expenditure of this kind. And as Mr Harakka has said here, the size of the balance sheet does not affect how much Sitra would then have to cut off these core tasks, but, on the contrary, it will also be possible to find a lot new through this presentation. But, President-in-Office, as far as this draft law is concerned, I find it a little funny that it is said here that there is no law, when it is Parliament that can change its law if this purpose of operation and this balance sheet issue so require. President! Sitra has many good things going on, and, for example, today at the Education and Science Section, we heard experts from Backman and Hyssala, who have, among other things, developed or considered their future. In this context, I cannot help but say that Mr Heinonen, who has just spoken here, has spoken on Twitter today in an otherwise powerful way, when it comes to governance — and it needs to be developed and rationalised and done many good things. I was very much in favour of it when Mr Heinonen said, among other things, that it could be, that it would happen now or that it would happen, that the regional elections would certainly move from this autumn. It is, of course, realism and wisdom, and in this respect, when we talk about development and looking to the future, I should like to say that I think that this news, which Mr Heinonen spoke on Twitter today, was very important and will and deserve to be quoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u15	Mr President! I would simply point out to Mr Viitanen and Mr Haraka that it is the balance sheet that makes the profit,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u18	And then on the phone list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u19	Madam President! In the spirit of transparency, I would first like to inform you that I am a member of the Board of Directors and therefore also a member of the Board of Directors of Sitra. I very much welcome the fact that the speeches that have been made here so far have been very united about the success of Sitra's operations. This award, which was awarded in connection with the circular economy, was a great recognition of Sitra’s activities, and in other respects, too, I understand that Parliament is very pleased with how Sitra works in accordance with its role. I also agree with Mr Vanhanen, if I may, to warn that when the Sitra Act is being reformed, we should not go out and pry Sitra's activities into some molds that are not suitable for activities such as Sitra. The debate on this Sitra balance sheet is quite interesting, though. I do not know what lessons to learn in this respect Mr Viitanen admits, but I understand he said that the balance sheet does not affect the level of Sitra's operations. Well, Mr. Suutari, as a long-term entrepreneur, has already corrected that of course it will affect, because Sitra’s operations are financed by this balance sheet, its profits. Does Mr Viitanen mean that as long as there is money in the balance sheet, we can act for as long as it takes, i.e. profit is not important, but what is important is how much money will be spent a year on Sitra's activities, from which we can calculate how many years Sitra would be able to work? While Mr Viitanen was still in favour of this robbery in Sitra's balance sheet, 350 million of it would be taken for better purposes — I understand: to cover the alternative budget for the demos also for permanent expenditure, but Mr Viitanen referred here to: [From: Home Schools! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u21	Mr President! It's pretty exciting that we've been dealing with these Sitra issues in this room for three years, and we've also made this proposal in our alternative budget for three years and told you about the content of our proposal, but it's obviously not wanted to read either the alternative budget or, at least, how it affects Sitra. But, as has been said, the idea would be to use these in cooperation, so that Sitra itself would be involved in these development projects. This is looking to the future, ladies and gentlemen, in the direction of the coalition. But, President-in-Office, I would like to say this once again that, now that the Economic Committee is dealing with this report and the challenges ahead of us in Parliament, I would like to see this report and the challenges facing Sitra in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u22	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u23	Mr President! Parliament has always played an important role in the capitalisation and development of Sitra. During the 75th anniversary of Finland, Nokia’s shares came as a decision of the Parliament of $100 million, and this has been a good line. The significance of Sitra today is something quite different than leaving it to replace the normal budget economy. In this respect, the point of view of using funds to repair important mould schools, for example, is not the right place. Sitra's capital must be used specifically to promote technology, science, research, the kind of projects that drive society forward in many ways. In this context, I would also like to thank Mr Sitra for his good cooperation in a very specific context. The City of Kuopio, for example, is constantly striving through its resource wisdom programme to become a carbon-neutral city. We have the 2030 and 2050 targets, to which all sectors of society have been very specifically viewed, including action plans, who do, who do, and so on. Sitra’s involvement in projects of this type also promotes activities at local level, and this is a matter of common concern for us. The city is also part of a network of sustainable leadership municipalities with ten other cities. These are also issues which are very concrete in terms of how this question of carbon neutrality can then be addressed — just one example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u24	Madam President! I also register as a friend of Sitra. I've been in the administration for a long time, but I'm not at the moment. Indeed, Sitra is a future organisation, also a risk-taking organisation on many issues related to the future of Finland. In this respect, its action is exceptionally important. Indeed, Sitra has a strong balance sheet — when the Parliament gave Nokia shares in time, they were wisely used — and it has now grown slightly again when it is a good time, but it is not in any way oversized. However, I think that Sitra can produce deficit results, as the chairman, Mr Vanhanen, for example, pointed out a little. When you've got big projects, you can eat that capital once in a while. There's a chance of that, too. This debate – I think Mr. Viitanen may be pleased that he has not succeeded in halving Sitra's balance sheet, because you can use the same trick every year in your alternative budget. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u25	Mr President! The representative Harakka stated in full terms: ‘Sitrantaseon siitekeisyke. “ There may be a misunderstanding. Of course, in most other companies, which are probably better known, Mr Harakka too, the balance sheet has a major impact on the solvency needed when investments or working capital are raised from outside in the form of a loan. That's when the balance sheet counts. But for Sitra, the balance sheet is the only source of revenue. With regard to the annual dividends on stock exchange shares in Sitra’s balance sheet, the sale of the value gains on its assets, other arrangements will generate the proceeds of approximately 30 million, which will be used annually. If Sitra’s balance sheet is halved, these revenues will be halved. The magpie stated that we are ‘ready to increase resources’. If it means then going to annual budget transfers to Sitra, giving grants from the budget to Sitra, it will at the same time condition Sitra's activities, and Sitra's independence, as it meant in the time it was established by Parliament, will be destroyed. I, too, am not in favour of Sitra's balance sheet being used to repair schools. Sitra’s balance sheet is now in place to promote the preparation of future system-level changes in a agile way, looking to the future. We have other budget funding, which is then intended for this type of normal activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u26	President! I think it is a little unwise to talk about this balance sheet alone, because we would have to talk more broadly about what Finland's common vision is, how that well-being will be created in the future, when we see, however, that work and earnings will change. We want more education and retraining in Finland, of course. In a way, all the good work and reflection that has been done is left behind in this debate, and now that we have found, among other things in the Committee on the Future, in the study of Finland's 100 new possibilities, that many things are developing rapidly technologically and that changes our world and Finland and society, we might need to focus more on these issues. I think it is a very good vision that we should look not only at the past, but look there at the development of Finnish society, and I would also see that this has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u27	Mr President! Sitra’s basic task is to build a Finland of the future. The Finnish economy needs to renew and respond to the challenges of the world around it. In 2017, Sitra carried out its basic task excellently. It invested in well-being data, circular economy, impact, knowledge management and knowledge. These are all trends in the future and will help Finland to continue to meet the challenges of the global economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-20-ps-39.u28	Mr President! Perhaps I will recapture the history of why Sitra has a very strong balance sheet. It has to do with these Nokia shares, which is exactly what Mr Ala-Nissilä described. Then, when we knew how to act at the right time, the balance sheet actually became considerably stronger than perhaps previously thought. It is precisely for this reason that we have left the balance sheets to work, just as Mr Sipilä said last year, and so we have also carried out this ideology in the spirit of its new creation. I think it was quite significant that Mr Ala-Nissilä, for example, said clearly that the balance sheet is strong and also said in his speech that sometimes capital can also be used if we do something a little bigger. This is, from the point of view of the matter, exactly the same as our own proposal, that is to say, the balance sheets to work, that is what this is all about. All in all, since this is my last speech here, I just want to say that I think that many Sitra is doing a very good, worthwhile and forward-looking job, and it has been a pleasure to see that.
