ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. The matter was asked to the table at the plenary session on 11 April 2018. Two hours are reserved for the referral, from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate closes before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item in the order of business is to be moved to the fourth item. I would remind Members of the new recommendations for speaking time that have come into force today, according to which the recommended length of the presentations is no more than 10 minutes and the recommended length of the speech from the podium is no more than 7 minutes. The speaking time shall not exceed 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u2	Mr President! The Growth Services Act raises more questions than offers answers. This is partly due to the lack of a proposal on the financing of growth services and the actual content of employment services. It is very difficult to assess the overall picture without information on, for example, what happens to municipal unemployment fines or how the pay subsidy money will be used in the future or what the job seeker’s service process will be in the new system. Nor do we have any information yet on how to reconcile the decision-making of the authorities, such as the payment of subsidies, with the employment services to be privatised. How can Parliament assess the Growth Services Act when we have not been given answers to these essential questions? Mr President! There is a great deal of concern about growth services related to funding. At present, employment services and growth services managed by the State TE services are transferred to the provinces and their funding is transferred to the provinces as a universal state contribution. There is a risk that the money currently spent on employment management and business services will be used for other purposes, mainly social and health care. The threat is real because the government's social welfare model increases costs, but funding is being cut, and on the other hand, social services are strongly subjective rights, unlike growth services and employment management. When the regions run out of money and do not have the right to tax, through which the cashier is stitched, it remains the only way to cut off other services first, such as employment management or integration. However, these financial threats could be avoided by, for example, giving the provinces the right to tax or earmarking the financing of employment management and integration in state transfers. Mr President! The Government's proposal states that the aim of the reform is to open up the market for growth services and increase competition. I would have imagined that the aim of the law was to improve employment services and to increase the vitality of the provinces and to support regional development. But no, the government's goal is to open up the market. Of course, that explains many of the choices that have been made. This explains, for example, why the provinces are forced to distinguish between the organiser and the producer in a total way, even though the municipalities have bad experiences of similar subscriber-producer models. There is a desire to open up the market, particularly in the field of employment and guidance and services for the unemployed, although the explanatory statement of the government proposal states that there is no evidence from international studies that the private employment service is better. So we are talking about ideology, not better services or cost-effectiveness. Why has the outsourcing of services been set as a reform-driven objective, even though its bliss has not been justified? Mr President! The law contradicts the obligation to privatise. On the other hand, the explanatory memorandum states in many respects that the aim is to transfer the production of services to the market and that the organiser is obliged to create a market and freedom of choice. However, it is stated elsewhere that the province can provide the services itself. How can it be that the regional organiser is obliged to open the market in the second section, but in the second section the regional producer is told that the services can also be provided by themselves? In any event, the articles oblige the establishment of a competitive service production, i.e. it appears that the practical outcome in the provinces is forced-to-carry or a total shutdown of the public employment service. The production of growth services already involves a large number of companies in producing training, for example, and that is not a problem. However, the Government’s objective is to outsource labour policy guidance currently under the responsibility of the authorities. From the point of view of the evaluation of the draft law, it is essential to answer the question of what direct or indirect control is transferred from the authorities to companies in the outsourcing of the service process for the unemployed. Will it be possible for companies to make statements to the person who pays unemployment benefit, which may lead to severe or other sanctions? The government is talking about freedom of choice for employment services now. However, we must ask what freedom of choice means in services where participation is strictly sanctioned. Mr President! The key issue that remains partially open is the relationship between municipalities and regions as producers of growth services. Municipalities currently provide a wide range of growth services based on general competence. This is not sufficiently recognized by the bill. The responsibilities of municipalities remain the same, but when the growth services are held accountable to the province, the question arises as to the capacity and motivation of municipalities to participate in the production of growth services, especially in the context of tightening economic conditions, or whether the situation is caused by the fact that regions and municipalities are duplicationd in, for example, business services. Many municipalities, and in particular large cities, would have wanted the whole of the employment services to be managed for themselves, but this is not possible except for the capital region, and the separate arrangement seems confusing and highly restrictive. The law should consider enabling regions, by their own decision, to entrust growth service tasks to municipalities also outside the capital region. In the Tampere region, for example, an experiment has brought good experiences of this wide-ranging responsibility on the part of municipalities, and these good experiences should not now be thrown into a scrap heap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u3	At this point, I will open a debate on the debate, because there is such a wish here, for about half an hour. I would ask those who wish to participate to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u4	Mr President! Due to the positive structural change in south-west Finland, various growth plus programmes have been created in many municipalities in Finland, and it is particularly good now that this bill enables the formation of a common will to bring together different decision-making bodies so that this can now serve the growth programmes of individual municipalities. It is therefore important that, while social and regional reform is being created, this joint act of will can speed up the growth programmes of individual municipalities and prioritise them so that the strengths of individual municipalities can be maximised by the resources available in the region. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: are you aware that there is a great deal of these growth programmes in Finland's municipalities, especially in Western and South-West Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u5	Mr President! When the ministers introduced this law but were unable to make a debut, it turned out that there was little change in these regional development services, but Minister Lindström introduced a large part of the changes that are coming to the labour market as a result of this Act on growth services. But we don't know what they are. As has just been said, financial services are open, what will happen in the Business and Employment Services Act is open, what pilots you will bring to this Chamber will be open. Could you open this side now, because they are relevant from the point of view of this debate in Parliament? And a very specific question which I do not understand in this model: Finland has received praise, and we have also been rewarded at European level for having cross-cutting employment service points in which social services, rehabilitation services in Kela and labour market policies work together, and now this legislation is being dismantled. The idea is that the provinces, as if somehow could build these entities in which:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u6	Mr President! I am a little concerned — and I am also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — about these hundreds of laws that are now open in this province package and about this preparation, and now we can see what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is saying about this. But when you think in particular of those in need of these many services and perhaps those in the wrong lines, how would this new model take care of them? This was raised yesterday in the discussions on the spending limits when Minister Lindström said that we are now starting to find out about these people who are perhaps in the wrong lines in the sense that they are not dealing with employment opportunities. Somehow I was surprised when we had been talking about this for a couple of years, how this job is still in progress. I would now like to know before we move on to such models, what will happen to these people in this turmoil and whether their situation will get worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u7	Mr President! As a whole, this law is good. In practice, regional development and growth services and integration linked to this entity constitute an important whole for the future provinces, even for the vitality of such a core. This gives strength to the central role of the provinces, i.e. to strengthen the vitality of the provinces. How, then, is this legal entity reflected in this regional development? I have to admit, I have a few small questions on it. One is, at least, that this law is now restricted from the point of view of the multisectoral nature of the province, perhaps it is a question of legislation in one administrative area, and, when you look at this proposal, I wonder whether this idea of regional development, which goes beyond the horizontal sectors, is now sufficiently clearly enshrined in this legislation. So I'm asking you, when this regulation looks a little light,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u8	Madam President! Indeed, in this proposal, growth services will be privatised and private individuals will be able to carry out service needs assessments, which may even lead to carnage for the unemployed. But I would like to ask about this public study trip to Australia. Apparently, officials from the ministry, together with these private large service providers, have visited Australia to discover their services, where employment services have been completely outsourced, and there is currently a strong debate on cream peeling and other things in Australia. I would like to ask the Minister what level of study trip has been made to Australia during this preparatory phase, and why does the Finnish model look much like the Australian model? So I would like some clarification on this, because this is a very important issue and it opens up the market for more than 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u9	Mr President! At the moment, the challenge for us in employment management is precisely that the financial responsibility, the tools and then the responsibility for organising it are not in the same organisation, and I see that the regional reform and also this reform of growth services will enable us to see in the future that both the financial responsibility for unemployment benefits and the tools for responding to unemployment, that the responsibility for organising is also in the same organisation, and that is one way forward. This growth service law has this alliance model, and I would ask the ministers: what are the possibilities for implementing the alliance model, and how can the alliance model still support the fact that these tools and the responsibilities for organising and financing are in the same hands?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u10	Madam President! Although it seems to be going to the provinces, I would still prefer that the large cities in particular, but the municipalities in general, have better opportunities to take care of employment and growth policy than is currently being offered. However, the information is there in the municipalities and not all of it moves to the provinces. It should also be borne in mind that the regional model will not remove interfaces between services such as social services and services that promote working capacity, because that interface will enter regions, especially in large regions where life-saving matters are likely to be in a different business establishment than social services. In other words, as far as this idea is concerned, that the regional model is now somehow dismantling the silos in employment management and growth services, I find it over-optimistic. I would like some form of municipal responsibility to continue. Mr Sarkkinen presented one model in his own good speech, and I wondered if he could think of parallel models. One could be, for example, that municipal responsibility would be obtained on the basis of the population of 50,000 inhabitants or something else. What is the Minister's position?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u11	Mr President! As has been said, there are still a huge number of open questions about the practical impact of this reform, but instead, this proposal shows the government's will to turn employment services into a business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u14	Mr President! I do not know what part Mr Andersson read, but at least in this bill which was distributed to me, it is quite clear that ‘private production can be at its best from 5 to 15 % to a net effect better than equivalent public production’,in relation to employment services. But I believe that, above all, this applies to those workers who have a good labour market position, so that they can easily find work. I do not want to go now to criticise what has been learned, but it is true that this system has not worked as best as possible for those who are hardest to employ in these experiences in Australia. I also think it is worth considering in committee whether it is wise for the long-term unemployed and those young people who are practically without work experience to be in the same situation, or whether they should be differentiated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u15	Mr President! A few words about this special solution of Uusimaa: It has now been thought that the responsibility for organising growth services in Uusimaa will be assigned to the joint municipal authority established by Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa and Kauniainen. Other municipalities would be able to join this joint municipal authority as a member. However, it is also stated here that the joint municipal authority organises growth services throughout the province also for municipalities that are not part of this joint municipal authority. In my opinion, this is: The special solution of Uusimaa is extremely confusing, and it is actually said that other municipalities almost have to join this joint municipal assembly — right? It would be interesting and necessary now to hear the ministers' assessment of this situation in Uusimaa that this has been thought through to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u16	Mr President! An important question is who organises and who produces employment services and who grants aid. They should not remain a fragmented whole. If employment is to grow, as I would expect, that the government wants and we all want, then we must get rid of Finland's fragmented service structure and, to a large extent, only online service advice. A clear package should now be established in which the municipalities would act as service providers and the province would cooperate with the municipalities. At the same time, our support system should be clarified and simplified. KD’s supportive basic security model would combine basic forms of support into one support and make work worthwhile. This regional reform could be the opportunity of the century to reform and simplify both TE services and social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u17	Mr President! One of the biggest problems with this legislative package is the general coverage. We all know the resource pressures of the social welfare and health service and its binding legislation. In social and health care, it is very difficult to anticipate situations in advance, and, for example, some major accident in the province can completely confuse the social welfare budget. And if all the money goes to social welfare and health care, what will be the most difficult of the services to be employed? In my opinion, listing minimum services is not enough to safeguard the services of the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u18	Madam President! As Mr Parviainen said in his own speech, municipalities often have the best knowledge and skills to employ the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed. Municipalities have also had a clear incentive to manage the unemployed and organise employment services, but in the context of the Growth Services Act, this incentive weakens in relation to the regions. On the contrary, the province may receive more money when the unemployment rate is high and unemployment is high, so the incentive may even reverse. And that is why I ask the Minister for Employment, Mr Lindström: how can it be that the best place to deal with this problem is a province where there is no precise knowledge of the local people, the local problems and, on the other hand, the incentives are also on their heads?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u19	Madam President! I wonder why a municipality that knows its inhabitants is left bystander when different employment services are transferred to the customers of companies seeking profit. This means that now that, for example, a young person who is unemployed and hard-to-work has so far received comprehensive support from many different sectors in the municipality, then in the future, this would enable the company to make only its own slice of its client's life, and that does not necessarily lead to the desired result if the whole is not taken into account in one office. Regional growth services and the development of regions are well taken care of, there is nothing wrong with that, but from the point of view of the individual person in which he lives, it does not matter if he does not get a job at all. Now I ask the Minister: Since March, for example, in the region of Uusimaa, organisations have no longer received the pay subsidy to employ young people who are hard-to-work and are not eligible for the employment services of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u20	President! Indeed, huge financial resources and their transfer are at stake. Around EUR 700 million will be transferred to the regions and EUR 400 million will be allocated through the Structural Funds, so that it really is not a button trade. We've been asked to follow the Alliance model. There is a lot of potential, but, ladies and gentlemen, the alliance model — with less, more, I suppose, it is crystallized — can only work, and only in a situation where someone is genuinely proactive and locomotive and that things are not dealt with only with one hand, so to speak, with the other hand in the pocket?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u21	Mr President! It is a good thing that we are talking about regional development and growth services, when, as a whole of social and regional reform, the production of vitality and income has been left in the position of the child. It is good that we are now discussing how each province could develop and strengthen employment and thus prosperity. It has been criticised that no reforms should be made. In yesterday's debate, the SDP said that reforms must be made, reforms must be made. Now that they're making them, we're just like the brakes on here. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u22	Mr President! Yes, reforms can and must be made, but reforms must be those that improve the current state of affairs, which improve employment services, which improve growth services. For example, this funding pattern: Yes, there is genuine concern that funding for growth services will be reduced in the future with this reform without earmarking. The funding goes to the general budget, and Parliament cannot even direct how much of the funds allocated are actually spent on growth services and employment management. Or the provinces do not have the right to tax, which would then be able to raise more money to produce growth services. In this respect, I see that the reform is threatening to reduce the money allocated to growth services and employment services and thus weakens the current situation. The second concerns this privatisation: I have not been given any justification for why privatisation would improve services and how the process of providing services for the unemployed will be carried out in this world of private producers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u23	Madam President! It is quite interesting to listen to this debate when we always find only problems, and we cannot find the opportunities that this could bring. Nor have I had the argument that this would not improve. Why should this always get worse? For example, there will now be more than one operator in the employment services, and if there are similar conditions, then the best players will win, and as a result the unemployed will also be able to look at the best services. Do we all agree that the current services are sufficient? This will enable them to provide better services. Now we are just giving equal conditions — is that not so, Mr. Minister? — the various actors genuinely work in the same group, and the best win, and people choose the best services, which leads to employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u24	Mr President! Mr Jaskari, at the time when the government brings a complete proposal, the opposition will not raise any concerns or problems. People who are hard to work include the long-term unemployed and those who are able to work part-time. There's an estimated 100,000 of them. At least I am very keen to develop employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed in these municipalities. But there are now a lot of concerns about whether, for example, the money will certainly be earmarked to support the life-management and employment of those who are hard to work, so that we can move this issue forward and bring about better reform. Furthermore, is there a sufficiently clearly defined overall liability, so that it does not disappear there and, in the end, no one is responsible for anything?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u25	Madam President! Indeed, in Finland, the majority of companies operating in this interface do not currently provide the services they are expected to provide in this new model. This means that the market must react very quickly if it is to be imagined that, for example, in the case of those hard-to-work companies, this is the case — good luck! But I would return to this funding for growth services, because it is indeed a general coverage. It is quite predictable that when future provincial councils have to cut down on services because they will be structurally underbudgeted, it will probably be a lot, much easier to cut down on employment services than on social and health services. This may lead to a situation where, when employment falls, the regions may even be able to receive general funding to correct the employment situation, but in practice, because it is not earmarked, it may also be subject to social and health costs. I would return to the need for a solution that genuinely guides and does not create such a trap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u26	Madam President! The growth service is at the heart of regional development at the moment. In my opinion, there have been some incorrect declarations here, for example, that this would be privatisation. This is also an opportunity for the province to decide on how to organise these services on its own. It also differs from the Australian model that Australia has quite detailed guidelines on how operators are to organise the service, but here in Finland, every province can organise it either as its own service or as a company or buy it from private companies and so forth. In my opinion, this is a question of how we can be effective in recruiting services, that is to say, work should be faced with another. I would have asked the Minister: for example, does MTK have good ideas in the future if it wants to get a better job and an employee in the rural sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u27	Let us take two brief comments at this stage, Mr Lindtman and Mr Pirttilahti, and then the Ministers' answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u28	Mr President! Should not the idea of reforms be to correct what does not work and not to break what works? Now here you are driving down the working employment service centres, where the most vulnerable unemployed people have received the service they need, from different sectors, and these very successful municipal trials are being driven down, and why? Here comes to mind when you look at this government proposal, the old saying that if the only tool in hand is a hammer, then all the problems look like nails. This is suitable for the social welfare sector, where the market model, incorporation, transport drive the market model and incorporation, and now these active employment services based on the Nordic model of active labour market policies are being driven into the market model. The hardest-hitting people are left behind here, and the question is how they get the services. I am pleased that the leading labour market policy thinker in the coalition
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u29	Madam President! Here, at least in some parts, porridges and wafers get mixed up here when this growth service has been brought up. In short, there will not really be any major changes to its regional development side. There, municipal strategies are still a regional strategy and a regional programme. But, on the other hand, we can compare how they are being implemented at the moment and how they are going to be implemented: after all, the funding has generally been on the side of other project funding from the Ely Centres, but now, in a sense, the province itself will decide on the development funds. And there must indeed, as Mr Suutari has pointed out, be smart decision-makers, i.e. we should make our own programme and set out to implement it. Of course, there are concerns here about how this would be done at municipal level, considering that there is a strong upper secondary education association, a business company, and then, of course, how these growth services and their own vitality will be achieved. So the question to this surface is: how will the surface of growth services and vitality services be managed so that this cooperation will also be maintained in this alliance model?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u30	And now for both ministers, three minutes. — Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u31	Mr President! Thank you for your comments and your speeches. Just a few basics to begin with: There's nothing here to privatize.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u34	Then Minister Lindström, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u35	Mr President! In this preparation, representatives of the Ely Centres and TE Offices have been involved in the preparation of the regional regions. Based on the messages received from the preparation, i.e. based on the messages received from it, it is seen that the regional model facilitates the coordination of social welfare and growth services compared to the current THP approach. So this is the feedback from there. The TE Office currently operating in the TYP operating model coordinates the TE services with the social services of several municipalities or joint municipal authorities. In the future, the responsibility for organising social services and growth services lies with one and the same operator in the region. This will facilitate its coordination. These services will continue to be coordinated with the rehabilitation services of Kela, and the municipal services can also be part of this entity. In practice, the province can organise services for customers who need a cross-sectoral service that promotes employment, e.g. through a social welfare centre. The draft law on freedom of choice includes an obligation for the regional business body to provide own responsibility social welfare services to social welfare centres, and this social welfare centre can also provide growth services. The question has now been asked about the position of these hard-to-work people, and this is one of the things that has been considered: this is the coordination, and it is a place to provide services to such people. It is also possible that in the future, as a growth service, the province will purchase entirely new types of services for the unemployed, which may then, if necessary, include, in addition to growth services, a flexible range of work capacity assessment services, employment-promoting health services and services, including elements of social rehabilitation. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u36	Let's take a little more debatt for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u37	Madam President! There are two major problems here: one is the separation of the organiser and the producer, which brings us to the same type of world as here on the social side, i.e. the market economy. The second is the understatement of the role of municipalities. As I understand it, around half of the fine payments are still being paid by the municipalities at the same time as ending the TYPs which have different experiences in different parts of Finland and ending these municipal trials, which have been first for the long-term unemployed and which have now been even wider than the Tampere model and others. At the moment, municipalities are investing around one billion in the management of employment, and now this government thinks it can afford to throw it away. In other words, the municipalities are no longer allowed to participate in these alliance models, which may need further clarification. I find it interesting in this debate that we should compare Finland with Australia when we have excellent experiences in Sweden, Denmark, other Nordic countries with regard to municipal employment management, which
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u38	Värderade fru talman! Tillväxttjänsterna är viktiga och jag tycker också att det är helt tätt att man har sökt en speciallösning för huvudstadsregionens stader i det ox sammanhanget. Men jag skulle ändå ha några frågor kring varför man har stannat just för en samkommunsmodell och hur man har tänkt att det övriga Nyland ska scötas, precis som ledamot Nylander arv tidigare rain.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u39	Madam President! I am surprised by these speeches which say that municipalities have so far had significant incentives for employment management. Of course, these fines have been a kind of coercive measure and they have also pushed the municipalities to build these own employment management models, but I can tell you from my own experience and from the discussions with the municipal authorities that I have had with the local authorities that this has been more of a coercion that has had to be dealt with when the state has withdrawn from many areas of the TE Services altogether, and now I think that this new growth service model and law has brought us back to a new setting. And I would not belittle the fact that, in the future, we will have social services under the same administrative organisation and organiser in the same provincial administration — for example, the most difficult services for those in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u40	Mr President! This law establishes a special solution for New Zealand for growth and employment services, this joint municipal authority of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. It has already become apparent that very many The Municipality of Uusimaa is willing to join this Joint Municipal Authority, and it is important that the matter is dealt with carefully in Parliament so that this model becomes as flexible, easy and fair as possible. Of course, there has also been a lot of good discussion here about the role of other large cities and municipalities. After all, the municipalities have been important employers, so it is good to continue to be good in the municipalities of the link, and the experience gained from the employment service centres, all those good practices, should be introduced, because there is much to be improved in the management of long-term unemployment, but it is these TUP centres that have produced good results. But I would ask the ministers: How have we thought about this ict law, which would be coming in the autumn? What kind of starting point would that be?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u41	Mr President! We still have no answers to the question of the problem of this market-basedisation. Although it has now been stated that the provinces have the right to organise the services themselves, this commercialisation is very clear in this bill, which is about to oblige the provinces to distinguish between organisation and production, to oblige the provinces to form their own production when operating on the market, and also to oblige the provinces to secure, for as many services as possible, the possibility of choosing the service provider they need from more than one option. This consultant assessment, to which Mr Satonen referred earlier, merely states that at best, in the case of successful individual cases, it is possible to achieve a better result of between 5% and 15%, but the section of the bill which sums up international experience and research data clearly states, in the government's own proposal, that there is no evidence that a private service provider is more efficient in terms of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u42	Madam President! There have been praises here for existing employment services. To be honest, I have to say, when I have dealt with them myself, that I have not yet found very many active employment services. And quite often the feedback you get on this job is that there is no help from that TE Office, no one there and, in fact, it is not even there anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u45	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! There have been some good speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u46	Madam President! Employment and business services are absolutely central to the national economy. And this concern is great because this model on our table seems quite confused. Of course, here Minister Lindström did somewhat alleviate these worst concerns, which I myself had in connection with these various partners. But it remains unclear, for example, what it is like for unemployed associations to be involved in such a service provider and whether they must be incorporated if they want to be part of such an alliance model. It is also worrying that there are actually no deadlines for the speed with which the unemployed should be able to reach the various service points — here Mr Satonen made a good point about this situation for the most vulnerable. There are instructions for telephone and internet services, but yes to such online workers for someone who may have different social constraints, for example, also, poorly functioning. And it would be very important, therefore, that this clarity be brought to this proposal, so that it does not happen in the most difficult way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u47	Mr President! The fact of the matter, on the basis of all this debate, is that the red thread of this reform is to transfer employment services and employment services to the market. That's the line you're making here. Of course, it is in line with what you have already said on other issues, such as social and health services. But when you look at how confused this structure is and how little public authority takes responsibility, here comes the great sufferers who most need these services, the long-term unemployed and, for example, young people — people who do not automatically and easily find a job. Minister Lindström, you will remain in history as a person who stopped the state employment services — you will remain in history as a person who stopped the state employment services and transferred them to this business field, which nobody knows about. The end result will be ruins, and they will smoke after you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u48	Madam President! There is a need for different players in the market. An interesting detail is that in this last couple of parliamentary term, when I have worked in Parliament, we have used private recruitment services — when the secretary-general has been elected, when the librarian has been elected, it is strange that we use a private suitability assessment. And in the market, these things are needed in exactly the same way as the public. Then another aspect of this alliance model: it involves transparency, it involves trust, it involves the need to produce better. Take from the alliance model, for example, the Tampere tunnel: it was completed in budgeted time and it was completed in the euro amounts it was supposed to be. Everybody won. This kind of confrontation between private and general, public, is odd. They say why don't we use the workers in those municipalities? They're the same people who work there with the same training. Amazing confrontation as if a person were worse or better, depending on the organization in which he works.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u49	Congressman Lindström — Lindtman, I'm sorry. I was thinking about both of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u50	Mr President! Mr Kiuru, you do not really compare the services of those who are most difficult to employ with the aptitude tests or the construction of the Tampere tunnel, do you?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u53	Mr President! As this debate here shows, there are many questions. This legislation is rather confusing, and it would be good if we could get answers to them, and in the sense that it is a good thing that this debate is now, it was postponed at this time when the ministers were present. There has been little concern that this very major reform under the guise of regional and social reform is being carried out in a kind of stealthy manner, and that is why I hope that this debate will indeed clarify these shortcomings. There has been a major problem here many times, which is this global funding that goes into the province, and how to ensure that there is enough money for these employment services as well. Minister Lindström said that various services can also be purchased to help here, but how does the province buy if there is no money? And there is no more money for the province — when Minister Lintilä compared these to the municipalities — because there is no tax law of his own which the municipalities have had. Then I'd like to ask you about the disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u54	Madam President! There is indeed a huge change in the system, and I must say that perhaps a lack of courage on the part of the government cannot be blamed on this issue, but we cannot really thank for the courage to do so, because we are going to try such a huge change in the system once again, so that this is a terrible thing to do. This basic solution is hardly justified in this proposal and it is still unclear to us what these social reasons for this change are, why this is necessary. The fact that we say goodbye to the Nordic system and move on to a purely market-based model tells us more about your ideology than about the need in this area. I am concerned about this third sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u55	Let us take two more replies, Mr Hoskonen and Mr Filatov, then the ministers' speeches, and then let us go on to the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u56	Madam President! I am amazed to have followed this debate on growth services. It is as if the image of the opposition was given that the municipalities and the province could not cooperate. From experience, I can say that my country, North Karelia, and its municipalities work together every day, the state authorities, the municipal workers, always. It is quite clear, from my own home, I dare say that every day we have contact with the Ely Centres, with the Regional Union, with business associations, anywhere. The connections are fine, and that's a normal way of life. Please, ladies and gentlemen, give us the impression that there is a vat that is not connected to anything from the outside. They live just like they do here, work and develop Finland. This opportunity must now be taken advantage of so that we can build that good growth beyond growth centres. Look where growth is currently taking place in this country — all over Finland: in Kainuu the workforce and Lapland are doing well. This opportunity must be taken advantage of, and we should not paint devils on the walls.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u57	My last response at this point, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u58	Mr President! I believe that private employment services, when it comes to standard employment, can bring added value if they operate in a narrow sector and target a specific area of competence. It is then that companies are better known, that job seekers are better known and that the labour market is better known. But if you read right here in the explanatory statement to your law, it says: in Australia the privatisation of public employment services has been carried out. The OECD estimates that it did not affect the employment results achieved. In the UK, large-scale procurement of services from the private sector has been carried out. Its main target groups were young people, the long-term unemployed and those with health problems or those with part-time work. The impact on employment has been weak. In other words, the employment impact of these example countries has been weak. And it is a question of increasing transaction costs when services are provided. But when you said that you could become a social welfare centre, where the employment services and the social and health services that are difficult to employ would then be separated from their own social welfare centre, have these assessments of your TE Offices and Ely people taken into account that the customer chooses its social welfare centre? There is no longer any power to say from the Employment and Economic Development Office that these services are being provided here, but that customers go outside the province, for example, according to this social welfare law. And this brings its difficulty in integrating these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u59	Then there are the answers of the ministers. — Minister Lintilä, and no more than 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I will go back to the previous debate, there was a certain lack of response, and then, in fact, what has been said here: This alliance model has been questioned: the feedback that has come from this alliance model and its potential has been very positive. In other words, regions, cities, municipalities have seen it as an interesting opportunity because it allows the province, the municipality and a third party to put the resources together and to seek a solution to the problem that is identified, recognised in the region, whether it is a youth unemployment issue or something similar to that of older people. It has received positive feedback. And here too we must remember: the responsibility of organising always in the province. So this is very clear. The question has then been raised as to why the municipality-based approach has been removed, why not the municipal model. The long-term reason is that the business areas and employment areas are larger than the municipality. So we've been looking for an extent to do that. Congressman Suutari asked at some point about this M.K. job they're launching. Very good opening for them. With a great deal of satisfaction I have noticed that the unions are coming, I believe, if I remember correctly, Pro and PAM are at least interested, very good openings, and I very warmly wish them involved, because they really do have knowledge and knowledge of these issues. Of course, you can ask, like a representative. My corner said if we're okay at the moment. We have very good staff. Now, in the last framework, 206 person-years were added to the TE Centres, more resources are available, but of course the personal service is the one that will be applied for even better this way. And I would like to stress again: this is not about to be privatized. We're here to pick up several tools. Perhaps the comparison could be that we used to go one sized pants through the kingdom, now each region gets its own chance and its own needs. This problem was raised: the best way to deal with the problem of confrontation is through their own regional solutions, and they are very different in every region in this country. But it's clearly recognisable. In other words, the red thread of the government here is to give flexibility and decision-making power to the region where the problem and the solutions to it are best known and identified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u61	And Minister Lindström, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u62	Madam President! Why don't we get started on these separate solutions from Uusimaa? Here along the way many areas came with its wish when they heard that such a separate solution for New Zealand would then be coming, i.e. to ask for some of these. Yes, our answer all along was that the mere fact that New Zealand was given this kind of thing was the result of long reflection and twisting. We have a constitution which, of course, is behind it, but we also considered that the capital region is an exceptional region in a different situation, given the economic situation, the labour market situation and the number of immigrants. In this separate solution, the influence of other municipalities in Uusimaa is secured by the fact that all Municipality of Uusimaa has the right to become a member of this joint municipal authority. In the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, 44 per cent of the long-term unemployed live in Finland, 48 per cent of those who speak foreign languages. So here it is really considered that this is an area for which it is justified to give such a separate solution. There has been a dispute along this path — if I am to simplify — about just one thing, and that is the responsibility of organisation. This issue has been discussed with Tampere, among others. This role of municipalities has now risen, because the government is somehow underestimating the valuable employment work carried out by the municipalities. No, he's not. Excellent work has been done in Tampere and many other areas. The point is that now that we are going to go ahead with the growth services, the province is the one responsible and the responsibility for organising is there, not in a single municipality, because someone has to take responsibility in the final game for every long-term unemployed person in the region in question, every one of them. This is the background here when it comes to the law that the province answers. That's why we've gone down this road. And this separate solution for Uusimaa, which has not yet been tested here, of course, is how the Constitution is going to deal with it, but our experts, with responsibility for office, believe that this is still something to be justified. The alliance agreement, which is why this is now done or what it is: The alliance may include a province, municipalities, service providers. It defines the objectives of cooperation, then the content of what is produced, what is acquired, the roles, the financing, the cost-sharing, the organisation — that is to say, the risks are also borne together. I'm sure this will bend to a lot of people. We don't even know where the Alliance model bends. Here I have encouraged the municipalities to use imagination, to go along with these pilot projects, to try out the new world that it will be in the future, because through these pilots we only know what may or may not be playing. Is there anything other than growth service or vitality that can be attached to the Alliance? It is up to the subscribers to decide what all the tasks are assigned to the Alliance. For example, managing social and health services in the province, municipal welfare services in the same alliance may be a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u63	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u64	Mr President! After all, the regional government that is now under construction is, at least to the beginning, actually a state administration in the provinces. It is directly controlled and funded by the state. The elected councillors are elected to the provinces, but they do not have the right to tax at least in the early stages. The Growth Services Act now brings together the business and employment services of existing Ely Centres and TE Offices for the organisation of regions. This will bring decision-making closer to residents and users of services. Services must also be where the needs of the people who use them are best known. Mr President! The Growth Services Act allows the regions themselves to tailor their services specifically to their own needs. In future, the provinces will also be free to decide whether to purchase services on the market or to produce them themselves. However, in all situations the province is responsible for the tasks of the authorities. However, it is essential that the basic service level is secured throughout Finland, and therefore the minimum requirements for growth services for all regions have been laid down in the legislation. After all, the region is made up of regions, and now I really hope that in the future, the regions will also take account of the needs of these regions and municipalities in the production of growth services. It would be better if we were to conclude that the municipalities and regions would have the opportunity to take responsibility for their own activities and take responsibility for the implementation of these matters at the municipal level. It is easy to see in the provinces only the needs of its central area if we do not give the regions the right to implement them themselves in cooperation with the municipalities. This is what I hope is going through in committee in particular, in order to get this to serve the whole province and not just the centre of the province, namely the experience of the distribution of EU structural funds. Many times that mouth of its own has been closer than the mouth of the container, and that is why we have to talk about this. The region will create its own control programme for the production of growth services and at the same time ensure availability and quality control. For its part, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy monitors the realisation of equal access to growth services and the adequacy of the level of funding both nationally and by region. In addition, as the organiser of growth services, the municipality has a responsibility to coordinate the customer's services if the customer also needs non-growth services to be employed. The province will also ensure that its customers are informed about their rights and benefits and that the services meet the needs of the customers. This is a very important piece of legislation, but I really do appeal once again to the committee that is dealing with this issue, that you are making decisions that give the regions sufficient opportunity and, in all possible circumstances, fair treatment for the municipalities and the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u65	Mr President! According to the proposal, the growth services of Uusimaa would be organised by a joint municipal authority established by the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Indeed, for once, the rapporteurs must be commended for their urban prowess. This separate solution of Uusimaa supports the operation of our national economy's engine. The challenges facing the operating environment of the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, such as the number of inhabitants and the number of enterprises and immigrant populations, the experience and competence of the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and their financial contribution to vitality services, are exceptionally significant compared with other urban areas. Uusimaa is a unique region that differs from the rest of the country in terms of economic structure, foreign investment and economic dynamics, among other things. Numbers don't lie. 40 per cent of the turnover of enterprises is generated in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and approximately 30 per cent of the jobs in the private sector are located in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Finland is rapidly urbanising, we are at the edge of a new wave of urbanisation. It is now a question of whether we are here to support this positive trend or to slow down the inevitable trend. Many researchers in the regional economy believe that the role of the region as a driver of growth will grow in the future. A separate solution for Uusimaa is also justified by linguistic considerations. Almost half of the foreign-language population of the whole country lives in the capital region. On an annual basis, the number of foreign-language speakers has increased by some 11,000 persons, and it is estimated that growth will continue at the same level. That's good. Getting international experts into our country is a lifeline, and the deteriorating dependency ratio will not be resolved at home. The separate solution of Uusimaa is not about confrontation between rural and urban areas. The cities of our capital region are not competing and should not compete with the rest of the country. The capital region must compete in its own series, which includes many other European cities. The Government's proposal now provides tools for the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and for the whole of Uusimaa to continue to work towards this competition. Mr President! In practice, growth services mean the necessary measures for everyday life, such as supporting employment and helping unemployed job seekers to find work. Services promote business activity, business growth, renewal and internationalisation. The change responds to changes in the labour market and ensures the availability of skilled labour. These measures are already strengthening good employment trends and they give us the confidence that we should be aiming for the employment rate of 75% already. The Act also strengthens cooperation between the various actors in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. During the consultation, the municipalities of Uusimaa took a positive stance on growth services. The principle underlying the separate solution of Uusimaa is close coordination between employment, skilled labour and the development of economic activities. Secondly, the responsibilities of organisation and service tasks will be differentiated. This solution supports the development of the whole working area of Uusimaa. Administration will also be as simple and clear as possible. The governance of growth services emphasises the partnership and cooperation of actors to promote growth, business conditions and people's well-being. In this preparation, there have been different options for implementing growth services in Uusimaa. However, I can be sure that this legislative package will give the whole of New Zealand the best opportunities to strengthen employment and growth on the basis of the points I have just mentioned. It should also be pointed out that the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area must also ensure that cooperation between the joint municipal authority and the entire Uusimaa region is organised also for municipalities that do not belong to this joint municipal authority. With this proposal, the economic and functional competence of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area will be best used.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u66	Mr President! The main objective of this bill seems to be not only to transfer responsibility for the organisation of growth services to the provinces, but to privatise service production despite the assurances of ministers that this would not be the case, but it would appear so when reading. This bill is in some places poorly prepared and is reflected, among other things, in the fact that the government's arguments in some places even abolish the government's own arguments. Risk assessment is also non-existent. This bill already carries great risks because it is a huge change in the system, which is going to be implemented once and for all. A serious shortcoming is that the social objectives of active labour market policies are very thinly included in the proposal. I find it sad to see how many good things are being thrown into the trash. The effectiveness of active labour market policies has been systematically developed for a long time. For example, the most difficult services for those in employment have been enhanced, the cross-cutting joint employment service point TYP is well established. Local government experiments have had good experiences in different parts of Finland. Municipalities have also invested a great deal in employment in financial terms, and they would have the will, knowledge and will to continue with the well-known activities. The entire development work is now threatening to go to waste when the current production structures are abolished. I was also left unclear as to what would happen to rehabilitative work activities under the responsibility of organising municipalities. Municipalities have invested a lot in it, for example in human resources. Mr President! Despite the answers of the ministers, I did not find out what services, for example, will be available to those who are hardest hit by employment in the future. There is a clear risk that services will be weakened because it is difficult to get profitable business from the employment of the hardest-employed. Furthermore, I cannot see what will be, for example, the capacity of organisations to provide services in the future. There is also concern about the disruption of service chains and the fragmentation of services, as some services, for example, will remain in municipalities. I was already talking about the problem of universal coverage in the debat, and the Minister's reply did not convince me, because if there is no money in the province, no matter how competent the decision-makers there are, it is quite difficult to manage the employment services of the long-term unemployed. It would be quite different if there were also tax rights in that province. This bill assumes that the regional funding criterion is unemployment rate and the number of unemployed job seekers. In my opinion, this is a rather strange criterion, even though I should enjoy it in principle in the case of high unemployment in North Karelia. But what motivates the province to invest in the management of unemployment if the financing criterion is the number of unemployed? It is difficult for the decision-makers in this and now economically troubled province to think that the benefits will eventually come in the future, provided that more tax revenues are obtained through employment if there is a shortage of money here and now. And, as I said earlier, it would be different if the province had the right to tax. Just a few more things. This bill has a lot of faith in digitality. I believe that too, but at the moment we have almost a million people who are not digitally involved, i.e. those citizens who do not have the skills, the ability or the ability to use digital services. In eastern and northern Finland, there is no There are a lot of people in this group who have been unemployed for a long time. This is why building on digital services is increasingly marginalising some of the citizens and the long-term unemployed. In the future, it would be important to ensure that regions and municipalities can agree on their responsibilities, obligations and division of labour, taking into account regional and local specificities. Workable and proven practices, such as THP activities and innovative approaches obtained during the employment trials, must not be discontinued. The role of municipalities should continue to be strong. The Alliance model sounds good in principle, but in my opinion, in the model proposed by the government, the Alliance lacks content. Without content, it will remain a mere co-operation on procurement, which can be done without the Alliance even now. Finally, Mr President, I propose that this bill should come to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities for the purpose of drawing up a report. I justify this by the fact that most of the changes concern employment services and, furthermore, these pilots, which are essentially related to the implementation of this law, are coming in May, and it would be very important for these issues to be dealt with in the same committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u67	Mr President! During this debate, a representative asked if everything was all right now. And the answer to that is no, it's not all right now. However, the problems of Finnish labour market policies are the result of a longer development that has continued over several Government terms. The offices of the Employment and Economic Development Offices have been reduced and the focus of employment measures has shifted increasingly from paid measures to unpaid ones. However, this latest government plan is a completely new development and will change the structure of the entire Finnish employment service system if it is implemented. The starting point of the Government’s proposal is strongly based on market economyisation. There is an obligation on the regions to distinguish between the organisation and production of services according to the buyer-producer model. In addition, the regions will be obliged to re-incorporate their own service production when it operates in a competitive situation in the market. In addition, the province must guarantee people the opportunity to choose the service provider they need for as many services as possible from more than one option. In my view, this entry also contradicts the fact that the regions also retain the possibility of producing all the services themselves. According to the draft law, increasing competition is a fundamental pillar of the organisation of growth services. According to the government's estimate, a market of 300 million will be created for labour services, including 190 million new services currently used for purchasing services and up to 110 million new services that will be transferred to the market. This means that the activities currently carried out by the authorities, such as the establishment of a plan for employment, periodic interviews and guidance to services, will be transferred to private, profit-making companies in the future. However, these tasks also involve the considerable exercise of power, which is linked, for example, to labour-policy cartels. So here again, by the government, we are doing business in a public service that is central to well-being, but there is still no answer to the question as to why this is justified. Finnish labour policy is not suffering from a lack of competition or market economy but from a lack of resources combined with this policy of constantly increasing sanctions and bureaucracy. At the moment, the problem in Finland is even that the labour market administration is left with unused resources, even though the active model should increase the pressure to provide training and subsidised work. Is the business model a more effective way to increase employment? As stated earlier in the debate, there is no clear support for the claim that private individuals are better placed to manage employment in terms of research or international experience on the subject. This is also stated in the government's own bill. According to the proposal, outsourcing of employment services generally does not seem to lead to the desired efficiency gains. Instead, it is likely that this government-driven model will weaken and complicate the position of the unemployed for three reasons: The first is that loose legislation leaves unemployed people in a weak position. In particular, this proposal for a Growth Services Act moves at a very general level, leaving considerable scope for regulation and consideration for the regions. The unemployed do not have subjective rights to services; they are discretionary and their more precise content will only be laid down in the laws to be adopted at a later stage. Secondly, the regional funding model combined with government social protection threatens to leave the unemployed out of work. The municipalities will be provided with universal funding for the provision of services, and at the same time the government will drive forward a social model with significant risks and several cost-raising elements. In addition to this, it should be noted that social and health care is also regulated by more specific legislation as regards people's rights to certain types of services within a certain period of time. If and when the costs of social services will increase in the future, this means that there will be pressure on regions to reduce funding for labour and business services. Thirdly, as Mr Satonen drew attention to, it is very likely that companies will have an incentive for cream peeling. Regions will acquire services from companies on a profit-based basis, which will give companies an incentive to focus on those customers who already have the best employment conditions. Thus, there is a very high risk that companies will focus on customers who are more easily employed, while the needs of those who are more difficult to employ will be overlooked. Finally, Mr President, freedom of choice in labour policy cannot be subjecting public employment services to the conditions of business. Instead, we need a system that guarantees everyone the opportunity to train or get to work, if necessary by means of a pay subsidy, and which, instead of mechanical sanctions, makes it possible to do job and part-time work, for example, by means of basic income. That would be a real freedom of choice in labour policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u68	Mr President! In order not to forget, I would first of all like to support Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's suggestion that this issue should be dealt with here in Parliament within the framework of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. I think it's natural that this should go to that committee. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already been able to listen to experts at two meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this draft law. This package of growth services has been somewhat overlooked by the debate on social and regional reform in relation to its importance. In particular, it is difficult to understand the overall situation now, as many content laws have not yet been adopted, as has been shown. Of course, it is important to wait for them. I will return to a proposal for a measure. At the same time, we have had a lot of discussion here in the Chamber about cutting income security during unemployment and about to reduce the conditions of employment. And I get the feeling that all these reforms or weakenings have two distinctive features: to market welfare society and to push employment to an even greater extent for the individual to decide, not for society or employers. In the form proposed by the Government, the legislation on growth services is a major structural change in which the strategic steering role of the state and municipalities in growth, business and employment policies is reduced and the regions are highlighted. I believe that the motion for a law on growth services puts aside the work equipment of the Nordic active labour policy. This is where the public sector plays a key role and where private actors complement it. Even private service providers are needed, that is not the point. My concern, however, is that these services will be widely privatised and market operators will share public tax resources in these services. They prefer to focus on services that are more easily employed. It reminds me of who is responsible for the most difficult people to employ — society, is it? In fact, should some conditions be set even for these market players, that they also take care of the provision of services which are most difficult to employ and not just allow them to provide services that are more easily employed? Thus, with the reform of the social and regional sectors, the regions will receive this universal funding, which has been mentioned here, and with certain weights, where unemployment is of great importance. But this raises the question of what are the incentives to reduce unemployment if you receive more funding than the unemployed. This incentive element is worth considering. Then, of course, there is the concern that if a certain sack of money is distributed to the province — and we know that it goes above all to social and health services — how much money is actually left to manage these services for growth and employment. In this respect, although I am not generally in favour of earmarking, should some steering sticks be considered here so that these sectors are not left in a weak position in terms of funding? This is what many players in the committee have drawn attention to today. At the same time, growth services limit the role of municipalities and, of course, it is a little bad to produce and organise services when they produce more than one billion of them today. I believe that the division of labour between the state, municipalities and regions should be further clarified for a number of reasons, and before this reform is completed, it would be worth considering finding a genuine partnership agreement model with a flexible way of resolving these issues between the state and the municipalities. Then I would like to conclude with a proposal for a measure, which is that there are therefore many reasons to review the reform of growth services and to take on board the points that have been made here. Otherwise, it would be wise to look first at the base on which this social and regional reform will take place and then evaluate the planting of growth service solutions in it. Would it not be wise to bring the growth service bill and substance laws together to Parliament so that we know much more about the whole? I would like such consideration to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u69	Mr President! At this stage of the debate, mainly a few comments on the debate that has already taken place and a few comments on this government proposal: First of all, I would like to emphasise that I consider this reform to be a good one in principle, but I will concentrate now only on this part of the employment services. There was a debate here about whether private production could achieve more net impact and efficiency than public service production. Here you can find a study of Finn’s 12 countries, which concludes that private service providers can improve the results for some groups and bring innovations to services in certain contractual arrangements. I understand that Mr Filatov also referred to this. I personally strongly believe that, in the case of a labour force with a good labour market status and well-placed employment in an open labour market, this is certainly a sensible thing to do. It is also probably the case that at least some trade unions have trainings that contribute to this employment, and I understand that the government has taken them into account in its own decisions. Secondly, as regards the role of the municipalities: it is quite large at the moment, I think there are 2,300 people who, according to this proposal, are currently doing these things on their own and taking care of them. Of course, the fundamental question is that the municipalities will continue to have a motive to be involved in this work. It is a key issue because it is hard to imagine that there is so much money in the rest of the way to organise these services if the municipalities are not involved at all. So maybe that's the thing I still think we need to be able to secure here. Then when we talk about what is in which part of the world that system and functioning model: We are also talking here about this Danish flexicurity model, where the local employment office has a fairly free hand in the planning of services and operational processes within the framework of the framework of the marginal conditions set at national level. If my knowledge of the Danish model is correct, then it is there that these private services have a really important role to play among people who are more employable, but then the municipality has a strong role in the target group of those who are hardest to employ, that is to say, it is one way to organise this. Well, there has already been so much talk about Australia that I will not go into it again, and indeed this model of ours cannot be compared to the Australian model, but it is wise to take that point into account. The risk of cream peeling comes to those services where the target group is very challenging — I think that is a genuine concern. Perhaps, then, a view of what these TYP services have achieved and what they have not achieved: here too, on page 63, there is an excellent point that states that ‘the persons who have benefited from TYP’s activities on the basis of their answers, who need personal service and guidance, have been motivated to take up the anti-youth and employment situation and who have an excessive problem of life management. “ And this is perhaps the fundamental question now that this group will continue to be able to serve in such a way that we can get them into employment and contribute to the labour shortage that is already in place in at least some areas. I hope that, by the way, when the government has reformed the labour market in a sensible way, these jobs will be created. That is what I see as very important here. Mr President! Finally, the fundamental question here is how this alliance model will be able to respond to this situation. On page 95, it is said that the alliance project involves the province, municipalities and private and third sector service providers to plan and implement together and may also involve their own service provision. So this is now the fundamental question of how to organise this in practice. In this context, I hope that, now that this Parliament is dealing with this in depth, the matter will be dealt with very precisely so that we can maintain the common will which we certainly share here to deal with the affairs of both the people who are more easily employed and those who are hardest employed in the future in an appropriate way. That is the crux of the matter to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u70	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Satos about the analysis and the examples you have raised. We cannot deny that, although this law allows for its own production, this takes the employment services to private companies, there are so many elements relating to the construction of the market, as it were: these pilots relate to the construction of the market and the entry of private services. To a certain point, it is a good thing, when they have their own slice on the side they know, but even now these market players have said that when they become hard to employ, their skills are limited. If we look at the pilots that have already been carried out, it also shows that in Uusimaa, for example, when young people were unemployed with good skills, a private service provider created effective employment services. But when looking at the elderly and looking at the long-term unemployed in Pirkanmaa, the results were not very good. This is the difference we should see. I personally believe, as I said just now, that if you act in a narrow sector and, for example, you pass on the workforce in a particular sector, then surely private individuals will be able to act more effectively when they are allowed to concentrate on their own slices and do not have to rule the whole world, as the public has done at the moment. But that is what I am surprised about in this model that, since we already have these private brokers operating on a completely market-based basis without putting the euro in it, why do we have to create a model in which we have to start putting state money in it? This is the big question. When there is too little money, why take a market - functioning issue, as it were, in the arms of the tax banks of the state and municipalities? That is why I do not understand this private aspect of what is here. It is true that our current services are far from fully functional. There is a shortage of resources, there are a wide range of problems, and especially when unemployment rises, resources follow slowly and often do not become customers. These are the problems we need to fix, but that is what I do not understand, that when we have effective models, why are they broken. By working models, I am referring, for example, to TYP services. TYP is intended for those customers who need a cross-cutting service and, as Mr Satonen said, for them, that model works. It has even provided labour in areas of labour shortages that our so-called normal TE services will never be able to implement. That's why I'm sad that this T.Y.P. service is going off. The Minister has good faith that we can make the social centres and employment services work together, as it were, but I am bound to doubt that model, because in reality, if customers choose which social centre they go to, then such a whole cannot be built. It is different when the municipality is a subscriber. It will then be possible to say that a municipality, which is responsible for organising and ordering, can order the whole, as it were, but the provinces play a different role. And I dare say that when the regions have considered this, this freedom of choice has not been considered, but has been thought, as it were, through the old municipal model. I hope that the Minister will describe that model to me, because I myself am the county decision-maker and hopefully also the future county decision-maker: what is the model by which we organise these services in such a way that they are integrated? Although I have been dealing with these things for quite a long time, I cannot understand it with these models if we look at the social media and look at this Growth Services Act. If you consider the example of Pirkanmaa, for example, that this experiment has produced good results, it is difficult to see how the Alliance would ensure that the model continues. It will involve new players, it will have to be dismantled in certain respects, some of it will remain in the municipalities, and it is difficult to imagine that it will be able to function, as are all good examples. It may be that the alliance model gets pretty close, but here too the question is that when someone is working somewhere, why break it? Why not focus on and correct things that do not work? Then, if you think of this subscriber-producer model in general: it has been tried in many municipalities and it was believed to bring benefits and cost-effectiveness, and it certainly brought cost-effectiveness. In addition to public services, alongside municipal services, private operators became able to learn from one another and, in a certain way, price awareness, for example, was brought to a completely different level. But at the same time, when it comes to public authority tasks, it was discovered that there will be a great deal of duplication of bureaucracy. Responsibility disappears in such a way that when a municipality has the responsibility of organising and then there are also public producers and private producers, those who organise do not get to the production side, but citizens expect political decision-makers to be able to influence both sides. The problem was that there was a lot of duplication of work and a lot of things got in the way, and that is why the municipalities have been giving up the subscriber-producer models. So you could say that this is not so much a reform of this subscriber—the producer model or the separation of the organiser and producer, but rather an old age if you look at what has happened in Finland. One of the ministers, I think, was Minister Lintilä, said that we need bigger shoulders than the municipality, and I agree. Many municipalities are too small to handle employment services because of the much larger employment areas. But now, in fact, shoulders are narrowing if you look at them from a state point of view. We have had fewer TE Offices than we will now have provinces. We have regions where there are fewer people than in larger regions, if there is a slight increase in unemployment — perhaps not quite but almost, you can say, the workforce and the unemployed at least. And this in a way brings a very disproportionate size to the provinces that organise this. I have still not found the incentive here to ensure that regions are also interested in the availability of labour outside the county border or in the unemployed outside the county border. Since this financing model is based on the number of unemployed, in a way, on the service of companies outside the county border and the needs of their workforce, there should be incentives that are quite different from those that have been seen so far, because it is certainly not easy. This has been difficult, for example, in the joint financing of TE Offices. Some transport projects have shown that when a sponsor is replaced, there is no way that there will be a common alliance in which a region will operate intact but will remain fragmented. Then, if we look at Australia as an example here, as well as the United Kingdom, that thinking of privatisation in general has left these countries quite far from us. And there has been a huge risk that the private sector will first enter the market, that there will be incompetent operators and that there will be very good operators, and then, when we start to cut out those useless operators, then we will have to increase bureaucracy. And that is the problem of this whole "producer" model in general: we have had to increase reporting, we have had to increase different controls and introduce regulation into it. Personally, I understand that the basic idea of this law has been to reduce the regulation and the quantitative measures we have in labour policy and to allow companies to innovate, as it were. But I cannot understand why a public operator cannot also innovate, as has been done in Denmark. In other words, there has been a lot of room for action for the Jobcenters and the municipal level, but it has nevertheless been a public operator who has been there for these hard-to-work people. But here we are, as it were, relying on companies, and I believe that there will certainly also be good business operators, but there will also be fortune seekers. I myself have been a minister at the time when we were experimenting with a job search service, in which we had a call for competition, in which we sought companies that would act as intermediaries for a particular target group and would receive a reward when they were successful. When you looked at those invitations, you could say in advance that that will work, they will not, because there was, as it were, underestimated the challenge ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u71	Representative Filatov has already gone through quite a bit of time. Seven minutes is the one that's set for today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u72	Madam President! The Growth Services Act is one of these parts, which should now be completed in the next few weeks as part of a large package which, in fact, left us with the idea that we needed to reform social and health services. The reform of social and health services, which at the end of the last parliamentary term was a joint state of mind of eight parties, was then only five minutes away, and I imagined that it would be the model that will continue until the autumn of 2015 when I was at an event where I learned that we are not doing a social welfare reform, but that we are now doing a wide-ranging reform of regional government, and then suddenly all the lifes and avities and many other tasks, including environmental, health care, relief services and so on, were combined with this social reform. Now that you listen to today's debate and many more of these pieces that have been brought into the Chamber, I feel that almost all of us are starting to feel that this whole thing is not being controlled. You can see that from this debate, but also from these government proposals. It would have been possible to avoid these overlapping points being gradually progressed: either step by step — through more time-framed periods; or step by step — there would have been a lot of social work first, then moving on to changing the regional government of the state; or, for example, by region, as we have an example of, for example, the arrival of comprehensive school — it was only an elementary school, not a whole education system, and yet it was done in order to leave different regions of Finland to build it. Now, no such phase-out as could have been done is being done, but at the moment we are working overnight on both state administration reform and social welfare reform as well as changes in municipal tasks. I suspect that not all risks may be detected. So here we have two major changes to this Growth Services Act: The second is the separation of the subscriber—producer in the social services sector, which means that we are moving towards a model in which the private sector is offered hundreds of millions of them, since those services are supposed to be purchased by the provinces. And then the second is this reduction in the duties of municipalities, i.e. leaving the municipality only to pay the fine. If I have understood correctly — I hope that the ministers will correct me if I am wrong — then these fines, which are currently being paid by the municipalities, are still about half of them, even though the municipalities are being deprived of all the instruments that could be used to organise this employment management in the municipalities, the pilots, the employment trials as well as the TUPs, which means that the employment service centres are being taken away from the municipalities. I am very sad about this because, especially in larger cities, there would have been a will, not only in the capital region, but also in individual cities, to organise this. In particular, when we look at active labour market policies, for example for young people who have a strong connection with the school world – we have looking youth work, we have Ohjaamo services, we have youth workshops where in part they are inside the school, that is, they are organised so that they are within secondary education, in part they are within the youth service and in part they are made into foundations and so on – and now this link is being cut off and it is becoming less connected with the educational sector. In the same way, if we think that adult education has also been transferred to secondary school, how will it be possible to do so in relation to this employment care? Of course, the main concern lies in the case of those who are able to work, the long-term unemployed and those who are hard to employ. Just now, there was a good debate on cream peeling, just the same thing that has been discussed with regard to social services. As far as growth services are concerned, it will probably also be the case that the companies which, by the way described just now by Mr Filatov, have been producing private employment services in their own right, receive them with taxpayers' money and continue to manage only those people who find employment most easily. We are therefore not going to respond to this concern when it is known here that we still have, for example, more hidden unemployment today than ten years ago, people who can no longer even register as unemployed. How does this reform respond to finding these people in the service? Then there are these discussions about why, as with many others, we could still not follow the other Nordic countries — Denmark, with a strong municipal base, or Sweden, other European countries, where there are such models, where the public side and the municipality are strongly associated with the state and the private sector — but now we are looking for an example in Britain or Australia, where there are entirely private employment services. I do not understand why we want to get away from the Nordic welfare society model and from this basic thinking, how things are handled. Global funding has been difficult and will be difficult in this debate. I am also concerned about the state's means of managing and directing employment services, for example in situations such as the Uusikaupunki car factory, i.e. the state will not have the means in the future to take care of these when they go so that each province itself manages the unemployed and employment care of its own province. My next concern is also with regard to these municipalities, cities, which are the vitality of Finland, cities that manage Finland’s growth, how — in this case, when responsibility is transferred to the provinces and when we as joint municipal companies have a large number of business companies — the link with planning, business companies and the import of this regional vitality will be implemented. I haven't figured out how yet. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u73	I would ask you to pay attention to 7 minutes, because we are changing the subject at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u74	Madam President! Growth services have been greatly overshadowed by the social dialogue, although they are services that are absolutely essential to the national economy as a whole when it comes to employment and entrepreneurship. The Alliance model for growth services agreed by the government is a confusing entity, as has been pointed out in many speeches here. In practice, this model leaves open the roles of these different actors in implementing growth and employment services. Of course, it is always argued that the province will then implement all this, but, as has been pointed out here in the speeches, for example, because of the general coverage of funding, it is very sensitive that, when the wars eat most of the funding, growth services will then be left to the mope. The role of municipalities, businesses and the third sector will also be agreed at a later stage, and there will be no regulation on the points of contact corresponding to the existing TE Centres, nor on the deadlines for the rapid access of the unemployed to these services, but instead there will be guidance on these telephone and internet services, and this is a concern. There are several speakers who have pointed out that people with a particularly disadvantaged position in the labour market are left behind in this type of online job, not to mention those who would need social services alongside them. It is somewhat perverse that the services of the unemployed are increasingly being taken away as distance services, but these experiments, such as those of Pirkanmaa, show that the more personal and face-to-face services it produces, the better the result. I am not saying that this situation is somehow ideal. All in all, perhaps for the unemployed, we have to treat the unemployed as bulk goods, as if the same service were working for everyone. We know that, even today, there are many unemployed job seekers who suffer from various types of substance abuse and mental health problems, whose lives, if you could say so, may ultimately be the least of the challenges, and in their case access to social and health care and mental health services would be a top priority. On the other hand, we have job seekers there who have unupdated training or who lack that training. For example, they have been unemployed in ageing years, and training is needed to update their skills, and certainly other types of support are needed to get to work. Then, of course, there are those who are very quick to get back into the labour market, as if they are just spinning in unemployment there, and, for example, there is certainly also the possibility of different types of private employment services, which may be an additional source of recruitment for this type of talent, who are very quick to find their way back to the labour market. But the problem at the moment is that we are trying to treat all three groups of people in the same way, and unfortunately, I do not think that this alliance model is bringing the real clarity to the heart of this problem. This role of the third sector, which I raised in this question, and I did not yet receive an answer from the Minister, should also be clarified. That various associations, associations of the unemployed, workshops, etc. operate on the foundation of associations and foundations, do a very valuable job in the inclusion of the part-time and long-term unemployed, and these actors may have to be involved on market terms, may otherwise cause some sort of competitive neutrality problems. I understand that this is a little unclear, both on the social side and here on the growth services side, that these various associations, as far as they are involved in providing services and if they receive support from society... Then these EU rules on competition neutrality will come into force, and it is likely that there will then have to be mergers. This has been confusingly unclear. There I understand there is such a one-woman commentator who will try to study this, but has there yet become a line in this regard? Then there is the intermediate labour market: this is also important, and I would like to see action taken here, and I have personally appealed to Mr Lindström for this. In our case, this legislation on social enterprises was made a little too strict at the time when Mrs. Filatov was a minister and it was made in Finland. Even then, there were fears of competition neutrality problems. However, such a so-called intermediate labour market would allow the inclusion of a wide range of groups, including people with disabilities, people with long-term illnesses and people with part-time work, through tailor-made measures to the labour market, and these forms of enterprise would need development. At the moment, there is little thought in Finland that these are going down completely, or that the investigation was being carried out, but the minister fortunately corrected and made a repair move in this respect, thank you for that. I would like this legislation to be kept up for reform during this term of government, because it is clear that, when things are going well with the upswing and the economy, there will be a suction into the labour market, including those with a weaker labour market position. Then we have those disabled, part-time and long-term ills who might, for example, be able to leave their pensions to rest by tailor-made measures, and in that sense it would be very important for these people to be included as well. Mr President! Perhaps another word about the fact that we have no clarity on this aspect of funding at the moment, and that is why it is important that, when the customer is assessed for service needs and also for employment plans, it will also be such a task for the authorities in the future, because if these assessments of the customer's service needs and the establishment of an employment plan and also the provision of services are all possible in the future by a private body, but then the payment of these costs will be made with public funds, then it will be very easy to create a payment machine or an expenditure machine that may be quite impossible to monitor and manage the costs. Since there is apparently no capital or similar thought here in employment services, the question remains as to how this funding is to be managed in this respect. Of course, when this legislation is lacking, we will probably not even be able to get an answer to these questions today, but here we are at the top of the list. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u75	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u76	We will now resume the debate on the third item which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u77	Mr President! Historical regional government is currently being built in Finland. We will move on to a three-tier administration, where municipalities and cities, next level provinces, and then the level of the national government, will ensure that Finland has high-quality and good services and administration. The vitality of each province will be sought and emphasized from the needs and perspective of the province. Resources are also being combined, funding from different bodies and decision-making powers are being combined. In the future, we would have a decision-making power with elections, direct elections, elected decision-makers. This is a good thing for democracy, because the people of the newly elected region know the needs of their own region and the adequacy of services. Now more than 400 administrators will be removed and 18 autonomous provinces will be replaced. The reform will be carried out in order to boost growth and support the strengths of each region, promote job creation, facilitate the daily lives of companies and make it easier for the inhabitants of the province to deal with the authorities. The reform of the Growth Services Act is about us developing content and service structure in a customer-oriented way. Growth services are services for job seekers, employers and businesses. Growth services include employment services, skills development of job seekers, recruitment services and various support and expert services for business development. Take, for example, an active model. In the Government spending limits debate, more than 200 people were assigned to the Employment and Economic Development Centres to ensure that the services and needs of the unemployed in the active model are taken into account. This is a good thing. At the same time as the active model is being considered in depth, we know that the unemployed and those seeking employment need very diverse employment services, and in order to satisfy this need it is growth services that want to guarantee these services in the regions. Business and employment services, i.e. the business and employment services of Ely Centres and TE Offices, will now be merged into new growth services. Growth services support employment and help jobseekers find new jobs, while promoting business activity, business growth, renewal and internationalisation, and thirdly, also respond to changes in the labour market and ensure the availability of skilled labour. I think it is important for the provinces to have such a principled one-stop model that we respond to the needs of the unemployed but on the one hand to the demands of working life and employers' wishes and healthy ones. There has also been talk in the Chamber today about the problem of encounters, that is, that we have very many vacancies, jobs, and also a shortage of labour across Finland in various jobs. It would also be up to the future provinces to promote and enhance the matching of unworked and jobs in these regions. In future, the same regions will continue to have anticipating role in training, i.e. in terms of what labour needs exist in these different regions and in terms of the type of training to be provided. And I think it is important for this alliance model, which increases the vitality of municipalities by means of various agreements, in which municipalities and cities then enter into an agreement with the province on how different services are implemented through different systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u78	Mr President! The purpose of growth services is to promote employment, employment and the operating conditions of enterprises. They will be one of the most important tasks in the province alongside the wars. The Growth Services Act currently under discussion confers responsibility for organising growth services on the regions. Recruitment and competence services, wage support and start-up money are transferred from the TE Centres of municipalities. Business growth, internationalisation and R & D services come from ely centres. Regional development tasks in the regions are inherited from the current regions. However, in the context of the regional reform, the responsibility for organising services is not limited. At the same time, the production of growth services is also undermined. The Government intends to extend not only privatisation and freedom of choice but also to growth services. The current public service production will be converted into a multi-producer model. Mr President! The transfer of growth services to the province is not necessarily a bad idea. The region is able to organise employment services with a view to the entire working area. At the same time, services can be directed and weighted according to the needs of different regions. However, it should be borne in mind that it would be good for the labour force to move between employment areas, not just within them. Cooperation between regions is therefore needed. Cooperation is also needed within the province. Many long-term unemployed people need social, health and rehabilitation services in addition to employment services to improve their ability to work. In the province it is possible to obtain them from the same organizer, at least in theory. In practice, social services and employment services will have a different producer, even if the organiser is the same. The services are provided by a private company or by a department owned by the province. For data protection reasons, it is not possible to transfer customer information between producers any better than it is now. This wall between growth services and social services could be dismantled if both services were provided by the public sector — information would move and the customer would receive the services from one door. Mr President! In growth services, freedom of choice means that a person can choose a service provider if the same service is available to several different producers. How much choice a person has in practice will depend on the province. Freedom of choice is concentrated in the largest cities, both in employment services and in war. In the most difficult area of employment, there will be far less freedom of choice. The most difficult people to employ are also threatening to miss out on the benefits of freedom of choice, according to the impact assessment of the Government’s proposal. At present, businesses do not have the skills to help, for example, the long-term unemployed or other hard-to-work people into the labour market. This must also be acknowledged in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal. Furthermore, outsourcing does not automatically guarantee better results. Based on international comparisons and the results of pilots carried out in Finland, private services are only able to achieve better results than the public employment service in some circumstances. In many cases, the public sector proved to be equally efficient or more efficient. In 2016, the Finnish public administration was judged to be the best in the world. That is why it requires a great deal from private service providers to be able to do better. Mr President! Growth services would be financed through the general coverage of future provinces. This means that the financing of employment measures comes from the same pot as social funding. This puts jobs against hip replacements. In order to achieve the objective of curbing the growth of the costs of social services to the tune of EUR 3 billion, there is real economic discipline in the future. Employment services are easier to cut than social services, despite the fact that effective employment services could prevent the need for social services and also be cheaper to produce. At the moment, economic growth is improving employment, but what will happen when the economic cycle changes? Regions need adequate funding to support employment even in bad times. The best way to safeguard it is to give the provinces tax rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u79	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion. Two hours, from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, the following paragraph 5 of the order of business shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u80	Mr President! I shall begin with a solemn statement that this is a great day, because we have two major educational reforms in Parliament, the early childhood education law and the secondary school law. In this first case, the law on early childhood education is being reformed. The focus of the reform is on the best interests of the child. It is stated clearly in the law that when planning, organising and deciding on early childhood education, the child’s best interests must primarily be taken into account. The best interests of the child should be considered on a case-by-case basis for both the individual child, the group of children and the children in general. Moreover, the law would provide that the child should be protected from violence, bullying and other harassment. It is important that day care centres address the first signs of bullying. The day care centre should be a safe environment for the child, where no one is bullied and no one learns to be a bully. The new law strengthens the quality of early childhood education by raising the level of training of staff and clarifying the appointments. In the future, day care centres will work as a multiprofessional team of early childhood education teachers, early childhood education socionomics and nannies. Research on the importance of early years is growing. Early childhood education strengthens educational equality, prevents exclusion and supports the development of learning capacity for everyone. Every parent must be able to rely on the high quality of our day care centre, and the expertise of the staff has a clear link to quality. The increase in the level of education is achieved through two measures: the definition of professional titles and qualifications and the provision of staff structures. The appointments and qualifications of early childhood education staff would be laid down so that teachers of early childhood education would be employed in future day-care centres with a bachelor's degree in education, socionomics of early childhood education with a polytechnic degree in social and health care and nannies with a vocational degree. A previously acquired qualification would remain in the legal amendment. All current kindergarten teachers who could be either educational scientists or socio-nomics would be eligible for early childhood education. The new title “Early Education Socionomics” would apply to those applying to higher education in the field after the law came into force. As at present, new early childhood education teachers would have a bachelor's degree in education. The law also allows for flexible completion of qualifications. As a second step, the law would raise the level of training of the day-care centre staff by requiring that by 2030 each of the three occupational groups in the day-care centre should work side by side. The change would mean that by 2030 two thirds of the personnel in the day care centre would have completed a university degree. This is a clear increase in the level of training of staff, as today one in three higher education students are required. The secret of the Finnish education system is highly educated, the best teachers in the world. In time, the transfer of class teachers' education to the educational faculties was controversial but proved to be a success story for the Finnish education system. As the role of early childhood education as the most influential part of our education system is now widely identified, there is a clear need for a similar development. The law updates data protection standards to enable digital communication between homes and day care centres. At present, there are more stringent confidentiality provisions for day care centres than for the rest of the education system, which are a legacy of social welfare legislation. In the draft law, privacy would be changed to the same level as in schools, which would enable similar communication between the home and the day care centre digitally — that is, easier communication between the day care centre and the home, also supports parenthood. In addition, provision would be made for an early childhood education data reserve (VARDA). Mr President! During this term of government, early childhood education has been developed decisively as part of the education system. To mention a few important decisions, I would like to mention the two-fold increase in university education during this term of government, the most recent by 1000, so that the government has earmarked 28 million additional funding for it over four years. The fees for early childhood education have been reduced twice, most recently by 70 million — visible in the everyday life and purse of many families and increasing participation in early childhood education. In addition, many efforts have been made to promote early learning, to develop multiple literacy, to open up new opportunities for early language learning, and to develop pedagogy from many perspectives. In the same way, an experiment on free early childhood education for the five-year-olds has already been launched, which can be extended and extended next year by a decision taken last week in a government debate so that an increasing number of five-year-olds can benefit from free early childhood education. In addition, development steps can be taken towards the possibility that we might have a two-year pre-school education in the future, extending it also to five-year-olds. Certainly, in this debate too, much is being discussed about equality and groups in early childhood education, and in this context the government made an important opening last week by deciding on additional funding for day-care centres in the weaker, more challenging regions so that, where there is a great need for assistance, group sizes can be reduced. This is therefore a new allocation of EUR 10 million for next year's budget. This package of laws is a large package that looks to the future and strengthens the quality of early childhood education and the reform of education that has long been expected in the field. The law strengthens early childhood education, develops it as part of our education system. Early childhood education is an impressive element of our education system. Today, on the basis of research data, we understand the importance of the early years better, and that is why there is a great need for this reform of the law. Nevertheless, many things remain to be prepared. Our education system is never ready, and early childhood education must be developed even after this law. As a result, issues such as early childhood education support will be resolved in the next phase of the law. The law reform of early childhood education is now taking a big step forward for the benefit of Finnish children, families and education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u81	Let's open the debate on this subject. I would ask the representatives to ask for the floor by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u82	Mr President! I myself place this bill in the package in which the best interests of the child have been put first. After all, we have quite a good record of this parliamentary term of reducing early childhood education fees and now, as the most recent decision, the increase in the equality allowance for day-care centres as a completely new start. They've been remarkable. This has to do with the same series and the same whole. The President-in-Office of the Council, what I would like from today's debate, would be for the minister to be able to answer a few questions a little in that direction, too, because I believe that there are a little too hot feelings here, especially in the socio-economic field, and I myself have interpreted that even a few misconceptions have arisen. However, it is now the case that everyone retains their own qualifications, now in school, now in the profession. Maybe you could tell me about this one more time. However, when it seems that there is a persistent perception that group-specific regulation is being introduced, these staff qualifications are being regulated on a per-day basis from 2030 onwards. Last but not least: When one third are highly educated, they will then be eligible for kindergarten teachers from 2030 onwards. Socionomies are also part of that group; this stands in the section. There seems to be some misunderstandings about this too. It would be important if you could comment on this today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u83	Mr President! The development of early childhood education is one of the key elements of Finnish education policy. Early childhood education is the basis for the child’s future development and even prevents exclusion. We all know the fact that the euro's investment in early childhood education will produce up to EUR 7 later, more than any other education. It is indeed a good thing that the government has now continued the reform of last season's ministers and has taken the legislation of this early childhood education completely into the preparation of the Ministry of Education and Culture. But it is quite disappointing that this bill is not correcting the really great disadvantages you have made in early childhood education this season, that is to say, you intervened in that day care right and raised group sizes. And the difficult thing is that some municipalities have made these handicaps, some have not, which means that we have inequalities between municipalities and children. Why did you not correct these evil weaknesses, even though there had now been an excellent opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u84	Mr President! The early childhood education law under discussion is a major leap forward. The best interests of the child are given priority. Those early years are significant in the child’s way of learning, and it is indeed excellent that this presentation strengthens pedagogical skills and improves the quality of early childhood education in kindergartens. In the future, multi-professional cooperation will be the basis for everything. There is a need for kindergarten teachers, sosionoms and nannies, and they work together, but the child’s best interests come first. Thank you for finally having included in the law the eradication of bullying. At other school levels, children are protected from bullying, but this has not been the case in the Early Childhood Education Act. It is absolutely essential that this is now enshrined in the law and that work is now being undertaken to ensure that early childhood education has zero tolerance for bullying. It's like what you learn at home and in early childhood education, then you can learn at school. I am in favour of this bill, and we are going through this very carefully in the Committee on Culture and Education and we warmly hope for feedback, so if there is anything else,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u85	Mr President! The goal of the early childhood education law must be the best interests of the child. I think that's what we all think. The big question is: is socionomist as a kindergarten teacher qualified, what happens to their jobs, what happens to nannies in the future, even after a transitional period and at the moment? I would like to ask the Minister: is there any research evidence that the skills of a socionomist teacher and a university student are at a different level? Group sizes are big, that's the point. They have to be smaller, or more staff. The lap is what children also need strongly. Finnish early childhood education is highly valued internationally. Municipalities have also expressed great concern about what will be in the future if they receive enough staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u86	President! I agree with these speeches, which say that this is a great day when such a government proposal comes to Parliament. And it is extremely important that early childhood education is considered specifically from the point of view of the child, the child is at the centre. At the age of early childhood education, the foundation for the whole of later life will be built. It is said that as we move to the 2030s, the number of socionomists and kindergarten teachers would increase by 9,000, the number of nannies would decrease by the same amount. We must ensure that there are enough people who do the actual care work — care — and that, no matter what the level of education and the title of the job, the right things are done, for example, that teachers are not there just in their booths making early childhood education plans, but are actually working for the best of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u87	Madam Speaker! As has been said, there is an important and historic presentation at hand, particularly from the point of view of the best interests of the child. Of course, I am also putting much hope in the future in relation to the fact that, whatever our economic situation, or whoever was in power, from now on, we would be increasingly uncompromising in terms of protecting the interests of children and, consequently, of the quality of early childhood education that has been provided in terms of content. Another important thing I want to thank you for is this entry on bullying. Hopefully, it will further strengthen the will to work against bullying and also to find new tools. As has been mentioned here, at the same time, of course, at least from the point of view of the house, there has been a lot of mail and there seems to be a contradiction, and it is important to ensure that these conflicts do not fall short of this good proposal and its objectives and its content. And that requires very clear communication, which is the protection of current professionals and people studying for the profession at this transition stage. It is important to have skills, roles, and they are clear, and they are appreciated and appreciated in general. It is important to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u88	Madam President! Subjective day care rights were restricted and group sizes were increased, these have been significant and severe impairments in the daily lives of children in day care and also in the position of workers. Unfortunately, this law does not correct these major weaknesses, even though there is a lot of good in itself that can also be commended. In addition, the problem has been that this has been prepared on a rather narrow basis. It has led to the unfortunate fact that different professional groups, different qualifications, different trade unions are now stuck to each other's throats. We must make sure that this matter is dealt with in committee. We appreciate those who have received university kindergarten teacher education as well as socionomist And lastly, you have cut off all these already low-paid women-dominated sectors by means of holiday money cuts. This should be corrected in addition to the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u89	Värderade Talman! Lagförslaget är bra ur många synvinklar. För det första betonas kvaliteten och att utveckla kvaliteten, och det tycker jag är wasteviktigt. För det andra tycker jag om det arv med mångsidigt kunnande, det vill säga att en tredjedel ska vaa Barnträdgårdslärare, en tredjedel socionomer och en tredjedel Barnskotare. Det blir en bra balans där det finns mångsidigt kunnanto till förfogande för barnens bästa. Det ox tycker jag är bra.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u90	Madam President! There is a lot of good in this legislation and, of course, the most important thing is to put the child's interests at the heart of it, to record the maximum length of the child's day of care here and to harmonise the confidentiality provisions. However, as has already been mentioned here in the speeches, there is also concern about changes in staff qualification requirements and changes in staff compositions. There is a fear that the total number of staff and the number of trainings are currently under-estimated. We know that kindergarten staff are already leaking into other sectors. A large part of it also goes to further studies on the basic education side to be a teacher. Even then, the lack of wages and temporary employment in the sector has a bearing on the fact that there is a shortage at present. I would have asked the Minister: would it be reasonable to think, for example, for people under the age of three, that there would be some flexibility in the qualifications and dimensions of staff compared to those for those over the age of three? Since there is a need for arms for children under 3 years of age, there is a need for closeness and staff, that aspect of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u91	Mr President! Indeed, this early childhood education law is on the table, and this will certainly clarify the legislation in this area, but it is particularly important now, then, for this staff, that no one loses the qualifications already achieved and that the qualifications acquired will be preserved. This must also be clear to the staff, and the message must also be clear to them. Of course, we do not currently have enough staff in kindergartens. It is really important to increase the number of training courses. And the problem is even more serious in those areas where university kindergarten training is concentrated. In my own municipality, for example, there was no application for a kindergarten teacher, and it is important that we can start again in the area of continuing education, for the third time. Everyone gets a job right after the training. It is important to increase education across the country. But really this law: It is also important to promote pre-school education for young children, and this specific support for the very first and second grade classes will also be given to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u92	Mr President! When early childhood education was transferred from the STM side to the OKM side, there was a huge change. From then on, early childhood education was no longer a social measure but a part of the education system. This forces us to look at this activity in a completely different way, in a completely different way, in the interests of the child, of course, but also in terms of learning how the children will get the best possible food for the future schoolway. As a headmistress, I have always longed for possible problems to be addressed earlier in early childhood education. Then it will be easier, then it will be more human, and then it will also be in the best interests of the child. This, on the other hand, leads to the requirement that the level of training and skills of staff should be increased and strengthened on the part of early childhood education, and that is what is being done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u93	Mr President! Minister, this would be a very happy day if you had now restored this subjective child care right. And the second relates to these group size issues
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u94	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for presenting the bill. The development of early childhood education is very important for the future of our children, and, as Mrs Elomaa said earlier, the best interests of children are, of course, the most important. Unfortunately, however, this bill has indeed given rise to a major and rather fierce debate in public, particularly among professionals from different educational backgrounds. They are all doing important work, and I hope that the Minister will answer these questions in public, even in a rather violent way. Mr President! The shortage of employees is affecting the daily lives of day-care centres, especially in the capital region, and the increase in educational levels has not fully responded to this problem. With this draft law, there is a need to increase the level of education even more than is currently the case. Unfortunately, the level of wages has also fallen well short of other public sector tasks and cannot be sustainable in the long term, especially in the face of a shortage of labour, that day care providers and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u95	Mr President! It is important to improve the quality of day care and improve the position of the child there. The child deserves it and needs the arms of both a kindergarten teacher, a socionomist and a nanny, and it is good to find answers and balance in this parliamentary process with the concerns that have now been expressed, for example, with regard to the fact that all current actors remain fit and that the work of people studying in this field is secured. It should also be noted that we will certainly have sufficient qualified staff in the day care sector. The fact that bullying has been included in the law is very important, but I would like to remind you that when the right to day care has been limited — some children are only part-time and go off in the middle of the game — and group sizes have been raised, this will increase bullying among children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u96	Mr President! Thank you very much for this bill. The aim of this is — and I am quite sure that we will be able to do so — to increase the quality of early childhood education. The best interests of the child have been put first, and efforts are being made to increase the pedagogical skills of the personnel. All early-schoolers are doing extremely important work, everyone, and all occupational groups are needed. This law specifically seeks to strengthen that genuine multi-professionalism so that the good qualities and skills of each individual’s educational background and experience can be combined into a functional whole. There is currently such feedback from the field of early childhood education that it is difficult to do work according to education, everyone does everything. This law now makes it clear that we will have trained professionals in the future, both care professionals and pedagogically trained socioms and kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u97	Mr President! Indeed, raising the level of education of early childhood education professionals is a worthwhile objective; it must also be done in a multi-professional way, but raising the level of education is not a sufficient means of achieving this objective either, as it would require a significant increase in the number of graduates compared to the current situation. At the moment, shortcomings in pay and working conditions have led to a very widespread consideration of the sector's change in this area. In this respect, I would like the government to be consistent and to understand how decisions taken here in practice affect the working conditions of early childhood education professionals. This 10 million which the spending limits debate is now aimed at reducing group sizes to day-care centres in challenging areas does not make it possible for the government to increase group sizes in the whole country, in all the municipalities where there has been a willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u98	Mr President! Of course, the big picture of Finnish early childhood education has been great for years. About five years ago, we were number one among 50 countries in the Starting Well index, and we have really raised children who are changing the world. All this has been based on a law from the '70s, so it is certainly good to say that the preparation of the new law over the parliamentary term was necessary. Well, the problem with this law is, of course, equally obvious. It really does not take a stand on the folly that has been done in Finland since the last few years after all these hardships. We currently have municipalities — and they are always sending messages — where children are sorted according to whether parents are unemployed or, for example, migrant mothers at home, and then there are groups of children whose parents are working or groups that are simply too large. I will ask the Minister two questions. With regard to the preparation of this law: what kind of international comparison did you make and how did you assess our situation in relation to other countries and developments? Secondly, how did you take into account the effects of the deterioration in recent years, on which we already have little research data?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u99	Congressman Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u100	Mr President! It sounds like we agree on this point that it is in the best interests of the child to increase the level of education, the level of competence. I think it is important that we really understand that a multiprofessional team is caring for and raising a child there in care, education. In other words, the different skills of each employee in education, the strength must be strongly involved in supporting the growth and development of its child. You said here, Madam Minister, that three-step support is not involved, but it is coming at the next stage. Could you open up to us what timetable is now developing with this three-step support?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u101	Madam President! I was a little overzealous about to start the previous speech, but that is also because this subject is so important. I am pleased that this law emphasises the role of early childhood education in the school path and that the level of education of early childhood education professionals is also being revised, but of course it must be done in such a way that the concerns that have come, particularly from the socio-economic side, are taken seriously. We do not want to build two-story people, certainly, among early childhood education professionals. However, I would address what many other speakers have already addressed, that is, if and when we want to be in the best interests of the child, it is very difficult to see the limitation of subjective day care rights in the best interests of the child. We know that municipalities that are artistic under social pressure may not be able to provide those services which are not currently provided by law as additional volunteers. That is why I would have liked this law to have adopted a position on the right to day care and also on more reasonable group sizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u102	Mr President! The success of Finland and also civilization as a nation are ultimately based on the idea that anyone in this country can become anything. For this idea to come true, it can be said that the basic conditions are already being built in early childhood education. The euro invested in early childhood education produces many times as much back not only for the child but also for all of us here in society. Unfortunately, this limitation on the right to day care, which was passed by the government, has been tried in many municipalities. One unfortunate example is that it was tried in my own municipality, where it was driven through by a majority of government parties. I'm glad that decision was changed. Why? Because of the fact that when we examined the areas in which the right to day care was most restricted, it turned out that it was most restricted from the already weakest regions, i.e. where the need for early childhood education was greatest. In the light of this information, Minister, are you prepared to re-evaluate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u103	Mr President! On the contrary, I would like to thank the government for sticking to this limitation of subjective day care rights, because it is offered to those who need it on a case-by-case basis. We assume that families are raising, not society. We're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're short, we're Hundreds of places are open. Two things have an impact on this: one on working conditions and the other on pay. If we were to increase the salaries of kindergarten teachers by EUR 500, that would be about EUR 90 million more costs,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u106	Mr President! This is a very important bill, and we are almost at the port, as they say. I'm mostly asking you two things: The first is that 20 percent of children under school age experience loneliness. How, then, will this be addressed? Is it from home? Is it from kindergarten or both? I think we should find out why this is the case. There must be a reason. Then the second question that I am really concerned about and which now affects the work and quality of today's day care centre is this dispute that has arisen between the two levels of competence. I really hope that, at the time of the committee debate, a solution will be found to this issue, that this will be resolved, that there will be equal treatment. This is a long transition period, but we are now in such a situation there that it is constantly causing confrontation. And lastly, as long as wages are this low, staff shortages will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u107	Mr President! Yes, there is a need for more training for kindergarten teachers. That addition was started in the Parliamentary Committee on Finance, I was starting it myself with Mr Vahasalo, and it is great that this government has now taken this for itself, that is to say to train more teachers, but that alone is not enough. I can send greetings to the labour market table, yes, kindergarten teachers and all the staff there have earned their wages, but I say that it is essential for equality that the law establishes the right of children to a teacher. The differences are huge in the municipalities, and this flexible model 1+1+1 is indeed good, it really makes it possible to organise its work well, and this is no new issue. In 1973, the Day Care Act set the goal that 50% of day care staff should be kindergarten teachers, and today we are dealing with this new law on early childhood education, and this is also a similar recommendation in the assessment of national early childhood education,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u108	Madam President! It is excellent that this early childhood education law has now been brought to Parliament. For the whole of Finland, the money invested in educating children is certainly the best investment for the future in general. Many good speeches have been made in this debate on the importance of pedagogy, and I have received many, many messages, like all Members of Parliament, on the status of socio-economics. I believe that this is all well and good, so that there is no need for any further attention to be given to this matter. Of course, no one's professional qualifications are being questioned here, under no circumstances. But one more point I would like to make, and that is precisely the situation in the municipalities. The economic situation of municipalities has improved very rapidly in recent years, and municipalities have genuine opportunities to invest new funds for their own budget decisions today in early childhood education of children, such as clubs after school and many other things. That is why I would like to see the importance of the role of municipalities in this debate. These are the municipalities that are building up these early childhood education services, and I think that this debate is too small for attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u109	President! It is very good that, in the future, there will be a single law that will no longer be largely applied to a wide range of social welfare regulations. Very often it has been pointed out in the debate that participation in early childhood education in Finland is at a lower level than in the control countries. However, things are not as simple as this, because in many countries part-time work is considerably higher and is now directly mirrored by the amount of participation in early childhood education. It is no credit that different professional groups are in a situation of confrontation. It is a good thing to clarify that not everyone does everything, but values the different professional groups and recognises their importance. And yes, even if this forum does not decide on wages, its joint national task must be to ensure fair remuneration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u110	Mr President! Even a good bill will not improve the quality of early childhood education unless the savings decisions previously taken by the government can be withdrawn. Larger groups and the limitation of subjective early childhood education rights, for example, from the children of the unemployed, certainly undermine the child’s interests and quality development. The additional funding decided by the government last week to reduce group sizes will not remove this basic problem. It's just a small patch for a major trauma from the savings. I'm sure the Minister has received the same messages that I'm getting from the airport very much. There are now a lot of exhausted workers in early childhood education, and a exhausted worker is unable to do quality work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u111	Mr President! I personally welcome the fact that the quality of early childhood education and the promotion of the interests of children are now being given priority here so clearly. But perhaps that is why this raises quite a lot of questions. The Minister of Education has now assured us that the government has awakened the inequality of children and, in particular, the risk of exclusion of boys. And that is precisely why, if this has now been woken up, why do you not use this opportunity to withdraw the decisions which have specifically divided the children of this country? This is the place to fix the mistakes that have been made. When the government tells us that the direction has now been reversed, now the child’s best interests have been put at the centre, why do you not correct decisions that have been completely unambiguously and clearly contrary to the interests of children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u112	Mr President! There are indeed good and worthwhile reforms in this proposal, but in pursuing a high quality of early childhood education, we must, above all, ensure an adequate number of staff and sufficiently small groups of children. I personally see it as the biggest problem at the moment. However, it must also be recognised from the point of view of staff availability that the issue of remuneration is a crucial problem. It is a disgrace, though, that a schoolteacher with a high level of work receives an average salary of EUR 2300 per month. [Department: Offensive! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u113	Mr President! Hopefully, we will now have a law that guarantees this everyday activity, the interests of children, a sufficient number of staff and a sufficient number of skilled staff. There's one detail I'd like to address. The need for shift care is constantly growing in us, and in this bill of law this shift care has been ignored. I would, of course, like the law to take a stand on this issue of the organisation of shift care, because it is also a very important issue, especially when it comes to women's employment. It makes it possible for children to be safely cared for when mothers or fathers work shifts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u114	Mr President! I remember that when I studied as a social director, a post-socionomy degree, there was a major debate about this last time, and that is why I now say that the committee will be familiar with the matter and will appreciate all the professionals, the need for professionals in kindergarten. The day care centre is already doing good work and very important work. Skills are the best, and I can prove it myself as a fresh parent of a kindergarten child. At the same time, however, more representatives here have been concerned about coping and in particular about group size. For example, all important goals to eradicate bullying are watered down by the fact that group sizes are far too large. Time and hands are needed. I would like to point out that this pedagogy is not made into an empty mantra that is simply being said, but is genuinely invested in the fact that there are also hands, arms and people doing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u115	Then Minister Grahn-Laasonen, reply, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u116	Mr President! Thank you for the warm contributions. I believe that, when this debate and its composition are certainly read and the staff of kindergartens are interested in the way in which early childhood education is handled in Parliament, they appreciate the fact that they speak highly of all professionals regardless of their educational background. I thought that in this speech I could try to correct the misconceptions that have been going on. In recent years, you can say even in decades, this discussion between the staff groups, between the unions behind them has been quite inflamed, and it has, of course, been reflected up to us. We've received a lot of feedback about it. However, when the law on early childhood education is enacted by Parliament, labour market policy is not the starting point, but rather the child’s best interests, as is strongly underlined in this legislation: the quality of early childhood education and the development of early childhood education so that it strengthens the rights of the child and strengthens the growth, development and later learning of the child. The strength of early childhood education in Finland is multiprofessional cooperation. The best know-how for all professional groups is needed to ensure that Finnish early childhood education is as high-quality as it is and continues to evolve from it. It is important that all three occupational groups work in strong cooperation in early childhood education. The new draft law on early childhood education, which is being discussed today, will safeguard the status of existing persons and those studying in the field, i.e. the qualifications acquired. No one has to fear that with this law someone will lose their profession. All professional groups and professionals from all educational backgrounds will continue to be needed in early childhood education, and they all deserve our appreciation from the heart. In the new early childhood education law, the idea and idea is to identify and develop the skills of these different professional groups in a direction where these professionals and their skills complement each other and where these necessary areas of competence become even clearer. The interpretation of this legislation by itself and by the Ministry is that the role of socio-economics is actually strengthened by this legislation. Their skills will be better identified, and in the future two thirds of early childhood education will be highly educated. Concerns arose here about the number of staff training in early childhood education and how to get enough staff when it is difficult to fill existing places. That is why this government has made significant increases in the number of early childhood education, in the number of kindergarten teachers. They have been raised twice and will continue to be raised. The aim is that, when this law is hopefully adopted, at the end of this parliamentary process, we will immediately start discussions with universities and educational institutions on the path to be built so that this staff structure can be put into practice in 2030. Last year, the government has added a total of 28 million dollars to the mid-term debate that has not existed before, over four years, and it will provide a thousand new kindergarten teachers from educational faculties across Finland. Wages have been raised, and I would like to state the fact that wages are not decided either in Parliament or in the government. I am sure that this debate will be passed on to where it should be heard, i.e. to the social partners. The question of international comparison arose. Similarly, there were questions related to the right to early childhood education. We've done a lot of international comparisons. Finnish early childhood education is of high quality, internationally recognised, and Finland is also an attractive country to come and study and learn from our early childhood education. What can also be learned from this international comparison is that the main problem of equality in Finnish early childhood education is not the number of hours an hour, but the degree of participation in general. Finland has one of the lowest participation rates in early childhood education in the OECD countries, which is why this government has set an important goal, to increase the participation rate in early childhood education. In Sweden, the right to early childhood education is 15 hours, in Finland it is 20 hours as the right of each child. We have a strong quality, and this bill further strengthens it. Thank you for the constructive contributions we have made to the further development of this legislation, because everything will not be completed here, but, in the next phase, the issues of support will have to be addressed, among other things, in order to achieve greater equality of opportunity in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u117	Obviously, there is still a need for a debatable tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u118	Mr President! It has to be said that quite far, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you have gone in the wrong direction. In the last term of government, the then government proposed to Parliament, the parliamentary leader, that after the first phase of early childhood education a second stage should be completed, and the main dimension of the second phase was that a child under the age of seven would have received support, i.e. genuine support, three-tier support in the form of basic school, but it was already known that it was not possible to set a model in the first phase of the early childhood education law that had not been tested from so many perspectives. Now I am very sorry that you, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, have already put forward a motion for a consultation in which you have revealed your position. You were not interested in this support for children under the age of seven. Instead, you went straight to the core and intervened in many other matters and used quite a lot of resources from the pockets of the subsequent governments to bring up the issue of staff as a first step, and this element of support did not come. I believe that Parliament is rather disappointed, because at least eight parties agreed on this element last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u119	Mr President! Perhaps one important stopping point in this whole debate and also in that future committee debate is that we will be able to get top professionals to apply for different tasks in the day care centre in the future. It is true, as Mr Räsänen has said, that it has to do with the question of pay. So work is done on calling, on the big heart, on the desire to help, but if the salary of a truly highly trained person is 2,300 euros for the fine work and future work that is being done there, then it is not a motivator. It will not be decided here, as the Minister said, but I am sure the greetings will go and it is appropriate to go. I also see the importance of what Mr Jarva said earlier that, now that these places are being increased, it is being done in a regionally balanced way. You must not create a blind spot in different parts of Finland where you cannot train yourself and where you cannot apply for pedagogy. Which means you're gonna have to stand up to it right from the start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u120	Madam President! In this debate, attention has been paid to the limitation of subjective day care rights, which considers that if one or both of the parents are at home and there are no special educational or social reasons, then 20 hours a week is sufficient. I admit that in the past I myself have been in favour of this restriction and I considered it natural that if one or both of the parents were at home, then the child would not have the right to a larger one, you could say full-time day care. But, among other things, Minister Grahn-Laasonen has convinced me that often, especially in families where unemployment is at home, this early childhood education is very important to strengthen equality of opportunity, and so I believe that this issue will be evaluated at the latest when the next government programme is being negotiated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u121	Madam President! I am still in favour of what Mr Zyskowicz said earlier, that if the parents are home, then some kind of teaching responsibility is also the responsibility of the parents. But we are talking about people who are working for our children, so this is the future of the whole country. With this reform, the role of early childhood education as a kind of start of the school road will be emphasised. This concern of socionomists, what each of us has now come to see in the form of e-mails, the fear that the acquired qualifications and qualifications will be going away — it has been great to note and hear that this has been part of unnecessary fear, and it is good to have been clarified. Yes, we have had major problems in recruiting in this field. It has already been difficult to get qualified factors in this area. Exactly one of the most important,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u122	Madam President! High-quality early childhood education is primarily in the best interests of the child, but it is also in the interests of society. As we know, the euro put into high-quality early childhood education comes back seven times. However, if the quality of early childhood education is not provided and cuts are made, group sizes are raised, subjective justice is dealt with, holiday allowances are cut or there are no professional values, professionals are adequately paid, then both the best interests of the child and the interests of society are affected. And that is why it is so important to keep these things in mind. The Ombudsman for Children has studied that we should carry out more child impact assessments, including in the budgetary procedure. It is important to be able to see what measures are taking children’s cause and the affairs of families with children forward and which are not. I would like to ask the Minister how he views the proposal of the Ombudsman for Children that monitoring, measurement and budgetary procedures should be able to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u123	Madam President! The issue of the limitation of the right to day care has been raised here in many speeches, and Mr Zyskowicz has just suggested that perhaps his own position on this matter has changed, and he also suggested that the Minister would see the problem of this situation. I then hope and plead that forces and muscles will be put on this issue immediately and not until the next term of government. If we think that there is still a year left for the possible elections, it will be a hugely long time for all the families concerned by this question. There is a huge amount of bad things that can happen in those families — or, on the other hand, an enormous amount of good can happen, especially that equality and equality. Then this should not in any way be a question that we are throwing a little bit of here in the Chamber or, as it were, hinting outwards that perhaps in a year's time or after the next election or perhaps all of us in the government will not feel that way, but that is what we are going to do. It is extremely irresponsible, particularly from the point of view of the everyday life and equality of these families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u124	Madam President! Mr Kiuru said here that the Minister is not interested in supporting children, in providing early support in the same way as in pre-school and basic education. I think it is excellent that this is certainly not the case, and I think it was good that the Minister said that this is the next step. The Minister could tell us what kind of preparation this will require. Warm, strong support is for this to come next, and this is well prepared. It is good to note that each child has the right to early childhood education. It is excellent that there has been equality in early childhood education. Studies have shown that the money that I originally started as Minister of Education has worked well in basic education, and it is good that it comes to early education. And I'm glad the bullying came to this. When, Mr Kiuru, you made the early childhood education law, countless statements, petitions, written questions came from organizations: intervene in this bullying, enter it in the bill. You didn't do it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u125	Mr President! I thank you for the opportunity to comment on these false claims. First of all, it is good that you raised the issue of bullying. I set up a working group in which the elements that would have been applied for with the various experts would have been the way to proceed, but Mr Grahn-Laasonen did not implement the proposals made on the basis of this working group's mandate. That's unfortunate. The next proposal was that, as the Parliament and the parties that were here last season wished, one thing will be put right together. All eight parties shook hands. Is it not right and reasonable for a child under the age of seven to receive support in early childhood education? I also appeal to you that this cannot be done in such a way that three years were prepared for the second phase of the early childhood education law and that this element of support was inconceivable. All other things seem to be making progress of EUR 100 million, but the support has been forgotten. There can't be any explanation that we didn't make it in three years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u126	Minister Grahn-Laasonen, short answer, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u127	Mr President! You, Mr Kiuru, had four years as a minister in charge, and working groups do not help much when they are needed. As a corresponding minister, you had every opportunity to strengthen the primacy of the child's interests by law, to correct the staff structure, thereby strengthening the quality, to record the fight against bullying, which is very important. You didn't do all these things. You went from where the fence is lowest. I remember following it closely and trying to get that staff structure in order by then, but you did not dare to solve this problem because it has caused so many conflicts. I am very pleased that today we are in a situation where we are dealing with the early childhood education law, which will solve the problems and conflicts that have been at stake for many decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u128	Mr President! I thank you for the opportunity to respond to these allegations by the Minister. I would like to say once again that I appreciate the work done by the experts, and that is how the major expert work was carried out in order to achieve the first stage of early childhood education by preparing for about a year. I was a minister for two years, and it was still taken through this Parliament. Then there were three matters left to be resolved. One of these issues was resolved by the Minister, but all the groups agree that every child should receive support on the educational path, the same support that is also available in primary school, and when the basic school model does not work as such, it was thought that it would be carried out by expert work on which to put the aid in order. Three years have passed and there is still no supporting element here. I mean, with that little money, we could've fixed this thing up here, but it just doesn't work out right now. Why?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u129	Mr President! I very much welcome Mr Zyskowicz's departure from this debate, in which he admitted, at least indirectly, that he was wrong as regards the limitation of subjective day care rights. If this is also a broader view shared by the Minister, I would indeed urge the Minister to take action immediately. There is no need to wait a year and a half before making this very necessary repair move. Mr President! I also think that we should take seriously the concerns expressed by the various professionals in relation to this legislative reform. I would have asked the Minister for his assessment, in particular, on two points. The first relates to the fate of nannies. After all, these changes will mean that less nannies will be needed, so how does the Minister estimate that this will affect the employment opportunities of nannies? Secondly, this demarcation of the title of kindergarten teacher only for university-educated students: how do you estimate that this will affect the long-term wage development of socio-economic professionals?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u130	Mr President! It must be admitted that one disappointment in this law was, admittedly, that there is no mention of this three-step support at all. I myself was a member of the parliamentary working group which, during the previous period, considered this. But now look to the future. Is it possible that the government would do something this season and bring something that would strengthen this support that many children undeniably need in early childhood education? Today, at least, when we heard experts in committee, quite a few supported this rather fast timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u131	Madam President! Many colleagues here have raised concerns about what the overall attractiveness of the sector will be in the future, of course because of these pay issues and temporary work and also because of the growing number of groups. And, of course, increasing the number of kindergarten teachers is a good thing, but it must be borne in mind that not everyone is going to be left behind in the field and the training of kindergarten teachers has been a very common way to move on to comprehensive school teacher studies. Here Mr Andersson was concerned about the recruitment of nannies. Well, their duties do not change by themselves, but I would be particularly interested in what will then be the will of the socionomists in the future for those studies, because now they are changing the possibility of these titles and also the jobs. Has it been taken into account that in the future there may no longer be such a fire as until now, because everything is actually changing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u132	Mr President! First of all, it has to be said once again that, at the moment, all those who have received socio-economic training as kindergarten teachers or those who are undergoing socio-economic training will continue to be qualified as teachers in the future, i.e. can continue to be teachers in kindergartens. In this sense, I can see, if we think about the future very far, that we may have a situation in which there are even two socionomists and one nanny in the day-care centres. What must also be remembered — and this has been well pointed out here — is that perhaps smaller children have an even greater need for care and a greater need for saliva than older children, and this law makes it possible to apply the staff structure flexibly within the day-care centre for groups of different ages so that smaller children have more access to the presence of those who have received care training. And finally, the fact that we strengthen pedagogy does not mean that we strengthen learning as if in a school-like way, but that the pedagogy professionals know it and understand the level of activity planned for those of any age, and this is
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u133	Mr President! Much has already been said in this Chamber about the availability of staff, which, of course, will have a fundamental impact on the well-being of children and even on safety. This is, of course, affected by this generally recognised low level of pay — and I hope that greetings on this issue will also go to the labour market table — but there is no doubt that the problems in day-care centres are also caused by this increase in group sizes, which also has an impact on the comfort, endurance and, I would stress, even on the safety of children. Mr President! This EUR 10 million allocation for the reduction of group sizes, as mentioned by the Minister, is in itself a good thing, but I think it is far too small and does not solve the problems in general. Rather, it is a Band-Aid for these problems. I hope that the Minister will now take a position on whether it would not be appropriate to regulate this dimension of group sizes at the level of the law, so that equality would be better achieved in different municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u134	Mr President! After all, this is a bit confusing to hear about the opposition, that the assembly here says more or less that it is opposed to the weakenings, the cuts that they themselves have made. For three years, education experts, child welfare professionals and the child welfare commissioner have been trying to tell you that the limitation of equal rights to day care and the raising of group sizes will be hit and hit the very children most in need of support, they will suffer the most. You have had the portfolio of the Minister of Finance, you have had the portfolio of the Minister of Education — who other than you have had the opportunity to reject these decisions? It is not right at this stage, when reform is being carried out, to say that we are actually opposed to this, but then perhaps the next government will be able to correct these things, these mistakes that we have made will be corrected. Why are you guys doing
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u135	Madam President! In the meeting and also in the Greens, when they are a government party, there is a commitment to the Government Programme and also to the individual solutions agreed in the Government negotiations and, accordingly, to go. In that regard, I said that I had changed my position and, in this light, that I had been in the wrong government negotiations when this matter was also decided. We other people, Mrs Kari, have the possibility that we sometimes admit that we were wrong and that we were in a different position than we are at the moment. Fortunately, you Greens are completely free from such human weaknesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u136	Mr President! I appreciate Mr Zyskowicz's reassessment. This is not the first time that there are representatives in Parliament who admit that the matter has been re-evaluated. Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen, you said in a word that ‘the status of socionomists will be strengthened’. We have already started an expert consultation in the Committee on Culture and Education in advance, but we have not yet listened to the expert representatives of the organisations themselves, the OAJ was today, but not so far beyond the field. One example. Now, after this long transition period, the socionomist will only be able to become the elected head of the day care centre by completing a master’s degree in education. I've already backed up the fact that this doesn't make any sense. In a way, we need to carefully evaluate the content of socio-nomic training and see how it can be developed and then perhaps with some lighter educational programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u137	Mr President! Socionomists, kindergarten teachers and also nannyes have made a direct emergency call. Is their concern in vain, or is there something in the law that endangers their position? They probably have lawyers at their disposal, too, and they're worried. Bullying is a problem, the extent of which surprises even day - care centres. The bill for a school peace ombudsman is made by the Finns, and I hope that the representatives will get to know it and sign it this week. That's good. We need to find a number of tools to root out bullying. It is good that the Early Childhood Education Act also addresses it somewhat. A sufficient number of staff and the size of groups are of paramount importance in eliminating bullying. Wages are lower in responsible day care work. My sister has been a kindergarten teacher for over 40 years in East Helsinki, and she likes her work very much,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u138	Mr President! The Minister has done a good job. This is an excellent bill. This responds to many of the major problems facing our society. This responds to progress in the area of equality. It's progressing in early childhood education. Bullying is being tackled and taken into account the sensitivity periods of the child that have not been taken up so far in our society, and that has been one of our major failings. It is shown here that there is no support at all. There's support for the kids right now. There is a special teacher in early childhood education, a kindergarten teacher, and his position and opportunities to work are strengthened in this way. This is an excellent law, and this is in line with the change in the administration we made during the earliest periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u139	Mr President! Early childhood education is a whole of education, education and care, and it is built on the educare model. It is precisely in this area that multi-professionalism is important. We therefore need the skills of teachers, socionomists and nannies in early childhood education, and they are all important in the everyday life of early childhood education. Different skills are also needed from now on. Thus, the most important quality factor in the everyday life of early childhood education is precisely skilled staff and sufficient staff. That is why it is very regrettable that you have not corrected this reduction in the size of the staff in this proposal. It's a very unfortunate thing. But someone here brought up that shift care, and it is good that the law now provides for shift care. It must be given to a child when day care is needed at night, at weekends or at night, but one thing has in a way been overlooked. In other words, we have a large number of 1–2nd graders,small schoolchildren who work in shifts and do not have legal care for this type of day care. I would like the Minister to consider bringing the proposal at some point,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u140	Mr President! I must say that Mr Zyskowicz's arguments do not confirm the government's ability to correct this unjust and anti-children's decision to restrict subjective justice. After all, this government has withdrawn a number of proposals that have been submitted, even those that have been before Parliament, and has also given up certain objectives recorded in the Government Programme discreetly — such as a 20% reduction in the number of master's degrees, which gave rise to a great deal of surprise at the time the Government Programme was published. In other words, I see that the government would have every chance of cancelling and correcting this unfair and bad solution, which is one of the most critical decisions of all experts, which has been made in the case of early childhood education during this term of government. This demarcation affects the rights of Finnish children all the time. If it is now understood that this was a bad decision, why wait a year and a half before it is corrected?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u141	And now we're going to the list of speakers. Representative Toivola, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u142	Madam President! A small but very important detail, for which I would like to thank and highlight: it is very good that the Sámi language is confirmed in this proposal as the mother tongue in early childhood education. It's really important. Then I would have asked about these college places. The Minister said that there is still an objective to increase them. Could it be opened up a little bit more because the target is quite ambitious, with a transitional period of 12 years? The OAJ estimates that we should have 1,100 new study places per year in order to be able to meet all the needs with which this objective can be achieved. How is this relationship seen, at least as much as is known to date? And for Mrs Zyskowicz, briefly: Absolutely change the opinion, I appreciate it. What was confusing in this comment was that there was an understanding that the Minister of Responsibility had turned your head, that is, he has been worthy to resist this restriction and has led you to change your view. It does, as it were, confuse everyone in relation to the debate that has been taking place for several years from the point of view of this delimitation and how serious the issue has been.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u143	Shall we have a few more? If the Minister can wait, let's have a debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u144	Madam President! I would like to say to Mr Toivola that I have not tried in any way to get behind Mr Grahn-Laasonen's back. I was indeed involved in making a decision on this limitation of subjective early childhood education rights, and in fact the then future minister, Grahn-Laasonen, was not involved in that decision. Since then, I have talked to many experts, read many related articles and, in the light of these discussions and the additional information that I have received, I have come to the conclusion that it is in the families where either or both parents are at home that this early education and participation in it would often have a very positive effect. My position has also been influenced by discussions with the current Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u145	Mr President! I very much appreciate, perhaps even more, Mr Zyskowicz, that he has now, on the basis of what has been studied, translated his opinion, but just as Mr Toivola has already asked, perhaps the greatest confusion is now about how Mr Sanni Grahn-Laasonen thinks about this matter, and that is why I would like to ask here: do you share Mr Zyskowicz's idea and wonder whether you have also changed your mind on this matter? That would be the good news of the day, and that is what I am looking forward to now more than Christmas presents next Christmas. Then we have to say that it is a good thing that the learning path is understood from both ends of the life cycle longer now, and it creates opportunities for children and Finland to succeed, but the importance of care needs to be stressed, especially for children under the age of three.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u146	Mr President! This is interesting, therefore, that the Finns here are committed to the Government Programme as the only party. After all, there is a two-party system in Finland: there are Finns who are Finns and then there are these others! These others believe that socialism and that society is growing, and we Finns believe that families are raising. And if necessary, individual. For us is important such an individual and the fact that we do individual politics. And if necessary, even now those who need to receive more day care, which is important. But now I'd like to ask when the minister didn't open it: How will the job description of the socionomists change? If we now have one teacher and two nurses, and if we have two teachers and one nurse in the future, then that means that the job description of the socionomists will change. Open it up real good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u147	This is where they call you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u148	Mr President! I said just now that we should look to the future, but that is what we have to say about the previous period: in the previous period, six parties — six parties — decided to examine whether subjective day care rights could be restricted, including those of the government. We figured it out. That's bad news. But the good news was that already in the previous period, these six parties said: it is not worth it, it does not bring savings, but it reduces the quality of early childhood education. And then some of us learned that already in the previous period when we worked this out because we worked it out. Mr President! Question to the Minister: These kindergarten teachers' opening places. We have heard that there are too few of them. Will the government return to this issue and increase these starting points?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u149	Let us now give Mr Grahn-Laasonen a reply, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u150	Mr President! Thank you for the conversation. Firstly, the number of places to start — the last question raised here. The previous question also asked how to secure Swedish-speaking services in this context. What I want to say is that this law, when it is hopefully adopted, will also send a very strong signal to universities about increasing the number of educational establishments, and this law is needed precisely to ensure that we have a clear, parliamentary will for us to have a higher level of education in early childhood education, and that will also result in the increase in the number of places of origin. The government has already contributed to this through its own decisions. Together with universities, we have agreed to increase the number of seats, first by a third permanently, and then there will be a thousand new seats, 28 million, which means that we have already made very significant increases during this period, and it is necessary to continue them, however, in such a way that the quality of education is ensured, so that it is not possible to think that these issues will be resolved overnight. That is why this law has a long transitional period. Similarly, the issue of securing Swedish-speaking services can be returned to, for example, when negotiations with higher education institutions are renegotiated. The mid-term talks will take place right here in the next few months. It was a question of how the job description of socionomists changes, what kind of skills socionomists have, especially in early childhood education, compared to other staff, for example. The need for multi-professional cooperation, support for families, cooperation with social and health services in the new regions, child protection and so on, in order to reach families in order to be as high a quality and well-organized as possible, has grown strongly, including in the Government’s programme for the change of child and family services in Lappe. And we want to brighten this expertise even more and make it available from the educational background of socionomists. With regard to the issue of the right to early childhood education and equality in early childhood education, I would like to return to what I mentioned earlier. I regret that this Chamber has not given sufficient attention to this most painful point, which is participation in early childhood education at all. We constantly receive comments from the world, from the EU level, that the participation rate of early childhood education in Finland is one of the weakest in the OECD countries. That is something that we must pay attention to, and that is what the government has done, including through reductions in payments, to increase participation in early childhood education. The problem and the point of pain is that the children who would benefit most from early childhood education are the least involved in early childhood education and that is why, among other things, a free-of-charge experiment has now been launched to bring the entire age group into early childhood education in the future. In this area of equality pain, we should give more weight to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u151	Since we have two hours of discussion on this subject, we are now going to the list of speakers. — First of all, Mr Vahasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u152	Mr President! When the law on early childhood education was transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Ministry of Education and Culture, the nature of early childhood education changed. Early childhood education was no longer part of social welfare but part of the education system, its first step. In this proposal, the transfer of the administration will receive the final seal. This transfer of government had been hoped and expected by experts from around the world. I mean, the whole world was watching this, that's when we're moving. We were the last island in the world where early childhood education — then talked about day care — was still on the side of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Now it's fixed. This change makes it necessary for these activities to be considered and taken into account also the word ‘pedagogy’ which previously did not exist. Children get the best and the best possible food for the future school road. Any problems must be solved before school age, the earlier, the easier and the more humane. In our country, we have not yet made sufficient use of the periods of sensitivity of the child's development and learning; that is what we still have to do. The most important quality factor in early childhood education is the competence of personnel. As early childhood education has been transferred into the education system, it is also necessary to strengthen pedagogical skills. The university needs to train educational scientists. There's a big shortage. The situation in the capital region in particular is alarming. The Ministry of Education and Culture has agreed on a further 1000 places to start and will certainly increase them when needed. The new function titles are the teacher of early childhood education, the special teacher of early childhood education, the socionomist of early childhood education, the nanny of early childhood education — always in front of the word "early childhood education" — will strengthen the multi-professionalism and improve the targeting of work in kindergartens in line with education. It is important for the growth of the child that the specific skills of each education can be better highlighted. It is the job of the head of the day care centre to be responsible for pedagogy and quality of work. It is therefore significant that the new law will require a master's degree from the managers. And the point is that all the qualifications at the moment will also be maintained for those who are currently studying. The staff structure will not be applicable until 12 years from now, i.e. 2030, it is a good time. The whole level of education in our nation must be raised and equality promoted. And that is why work must start as early as possible, early years, for it is the child’s future that matters most. Mr President! It is important for each child to participate in early childhood education and therefore for all children to have access to early childhood education to be reduced. One factor that reduces this is that the new law also brings discounts to customer fees for families with low and middle incomes and families with more children in early childhood education. This bill is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u153	Mr President! It may be a little difficult to have this debate when it is not quite clear what the Ministry of Education and the Coalition Party think of what they are in favour of and what they are opposed to. A lot of people here would probably have appreciated hearing the Minister's opinion on these issues which were discussed earlier. However, we know more and more about the importance of pedagogical, high-quality early childhood education, and we know that if we want to combat the inequality of children and stop the growth of learning differences, then we must give the most support to the first and most important steps of the learning path, because it is then that the stone leg of learning is laid for life. There's a lot of good in this bill. What is good, for example, is that the content, quality and pedagogy of early childhood education are strengthened. The proportion of children in early childhood education must be increased. In Finland, there are fewer children in early childhood education than anywhere else in Europe, and this is completely unsustainable. For this reason, since the beginning of the year, the Greens have been proposing to bring forward pre-school education by one year and have long been pushing for early childhood education to be free of charge. The second thing that is absolutely good in this bill is that child bullying, violence and harassment are now being dealt with strictly. This is something that should be taken seriously in every single municipality, every single day care centre, because children need a safe environment where they grow up and learn. These professional titles are, understandably, a big issue for early childhood education professionals, but it is our job here to ensure that our children, all the children in this country, get the best start on their own path. It is now good to ensure in committee what kind of education best prepares for what task, and this is important so that we can best guarantee the right of the child to a high-quality pedagogical early education, because it must always be in the best interests of the child in this law. This bill provides a good basis for this work. Mr President! The Minister of Education has now told us that the government has awakened to the danger of boys being excluded, to the inequality of children and to the growing learning gap. Here in the past, the Coalition Party suggested that it itself was opposed to the cuts and the weakening of early childhood education itself. Perhaps that is why it is completely incomprehensible that the government is still refusing to listen to the educational experts, the child welfare professionals and the child welfare commissioner who have repeatedly told us how harmful and harmful these weakenings and surgeries are. Why is there still no withdrawal of decisions which discriminate against the children of this country, decisions that have clearly been mistakes, decisions that the coalition is now trying to wash its hands? The narrowing down of equal day care rights and the raising of group sizes hit the very children who would have needed our support the most, and they did not even bring the savings that these cuts were going to bring. The children's position was weakened in vain. Children's inequality and growing learning differences are our biggest failure. This reform is the moment, this is just the place where we can correct the mistakes that have been made. We can restore equal day care rights, we can reduce group sizes. By doing this, we would also improve the opportunities for early childhood education professionals to do their own work, because they are doing very important work, but they are doing it with far too little pay, which, after the government's holiday allowance cuts, is even smaller. And on top of that, this work is now being done in too large groups of children. The right to quality early childhood education is an equal right for each child. And while this bill brings many improvements, it does not correct the big mistakes made. These are the mistakes that are being paid for by the most vulnerable children, and that is what we need to correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u154	Mr President! ‘Standard Message to the Council of Finlandis : Finlandlivesthetime of well-being underachievement. We have not managed enough to put vulnerable children on the track of well-being and social uprising. This is what everyone is suffering from.” I saw us as MPs, the Parliament was denied about a month ago by the Finnish Children’s Ombudsman in his report, which is now being discussed by the Parliament. Mr President! Social Democratic Education Ministers carried out the most important reforms in terms of the quality of early childhood education between 2012 and 2014. At that time, the child was granted the right to early childhood education from 1 August 2014. This subjective right has been limited by the current government, based mainly on the labour market position of the child's parents, and, as has been said in the debate here, this has proved to be a wrong, indeed wrong decision. Social Democrats regard the development of early childhood education as one of the most important elements of Finnish social and educational policy. It is important that the legislation on early childhood education is now fully transposed into the preparation of the Ministry of Education and Culture. I believe that, here and now, we should also have corrected the significant weakenings that have been made in early childhood education during this parliamentary term. In other words, the limitation of subjective day care rights should be withdrawn and group sizes restored to at least the previous level. This is what the statement of the Ombudsman for Children meant for us representatives, that is exactly what it meant. Mr President! I think it is important that we now ensure that, in addition to pedagogical skills, early childhood education also has social and social skills, because early childhood education is not only about working with children but also about the needs of the whole family. We Social Democrats want to stick to the so-called educare model, where education, education and care — care, care — form a functional whole. Education, education, treatment. This multi-professionality in early childhood education is best achieved by employing both candidates, i.e. university students, and socionomists, i.e. those who have studied at polytechnics, and nannies who have completed vocational qualifications. In recent weeks and months, there has been a terrible situation in which, for a variety of reasons, sociologists and carers feel that they have somehow lost sight of themselves and that this bill is, in fact, mistreatment and mistreatment of them. I can promise you that, in connection with the debate in the Committee on Culture, when we have listened to the experts, we will have to make the corrections that we hope to be able to do together and we want to do. In other words, all kindergarten teachers and nannies deserve dignified and equal treatment. I can assure you that I will do and we will do our best to do so. I believe that this three-step support for a child should now have been specified and extended to early childhood education, because when you see these growth and development problems, especially for young children, psychological services and, if necessary, psychiatrists and so on, or whatever the actions are. Mr President! I would also like to say that we in Finland have a relatively low participation rate in early childhood education compared to many other countries. Well, low and low, it is about 75%, but in many other countries — France, for example, it is practically 100, Sweden 95 and so on. I believe that even with this law, the quality of early childhood education will now be further improved and then increased attractiveness. Perhaps here, Mr President, at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u155	Mr President! The development of early childhood education is one of the key elements of Finnish education policy, as it is the basis for the child's later school path and even prevents exclusion. Social Democratic Education Ministers carried out the most important reforms in terms of the quality of early childhood education between 2012 and 2014. It is a good thing that the current Minister for Education continues that reform, so that the legislation on early childhood education is now fully transferred to the preparation of the Ministry of Education and Culture. It is also good that the bill sees early childhood education as a local service aimed at providing close to children and families. Thus a local school, a nearby day care centre, can become an increasingly strong part of the local school path. It is also good that the law explicitly provides for shift care. It is therefore legally necessary to give it to a child who needs it at night, at night or at weekends because of his or her work and study. In this regard, it would be desirable to ensure that small first- and second-class schoolchildren are provided with a day-care centre if the child's evening and night-time care cannot be otherwise provided, for example, in single-parent families. This is a pretty big problem, for in many single - parent families, though now a nurse, a first - grader may have to spend an evening and a night alone at home if no help is available nearby. Mr President! It is a great disappointment that the draft law does not correct the significant weakening of early childhood education during this parliamentary term. In order not to be forgotten, I would remind you that this government limited subjective day care rights to part-time children of parents at home and increased group sizes. This has caused great inequalities between children living in different municipalities, while in other municipalities these handicaps have been implemented and others have not. We Social Democrats believe that the right to day care for any child should not be limited to oversized groups and that sufficient staffing should now have been lacking. Unfortunately, the proposal for a law on early childhood education does not propose any improvement on these matters, but the government leaves the weakenings it has done in the past. According to international recommendations, half of early childhood education staff should be kindergarten teachers. This is, among other things, the case in many other Nordic countries. However, we currently have kindergarten teachers in Finland, i.e. graduates of either the university or polytechnics according to the current law, only about one third. With this new bill, two thirds of the personnel in early childhood education must have a degree in higher education, i.e. the qualification of either a teacher or a socionomist in early childhood education. So the amount is doubled, and this is, of course, a good thing. In order to implement the guidelines of this bill and to respond to the current shortage of kindergarten teachers, the university must have 1100 annual starting points for kindergarten teachers every year from now on. That is what we heard in the first expert hearings in the committee today, and I would like to ask the Minister whether this has been taken into account. All I heard was a thousand, but 1100 would be more real. We must remember that early childhood education is a whole set of education, education and care, that is to say, the educare model. In this case, it is important to remember that it is precisely in this area that multi-professionalism is important. We need the skills of both early childhood education teachers, socionomists and nannies. They are all of the utmost importance in the everyday life of early childhood education and in the lives of children there. Different skills are needed. In other words, the most important quality factor in the everyday life of early childhood education is precisely skilled staff and a sufficient number of them, even when there are cases of illness, which means that there must also be enough replacements. President! It is a great disappointment that the bill does not improve the rights of children in need of support for their learning and does not strengthen the support they need. Children should in future be better protected from the right to the support they need, to the special teacher of early childhood education and to other support measures, just as provided for in pre-school and basic education. By the next stage at the latest, the so-called three-step support which is already being implemented in pre-school education and basic education should be added to the law. The need for experts to support growth, development and learning in early childhood education is quite urgent. It is absolutely necessary that every child should be covered by three stages of support from early childhood education, so that problems can be tackled early. We all know that things work best when they are dealt with at an early and good stage. And experts can do it when they're given a chance. Private early childhood education services are increasing in a growing number of municipalities. In order to ensure a uniform quality of early childhood education and a level playing field in education, greater attention must be paid to monitoring and directing the private service providers of municipalities, as well as to supporting and instructing them. This would have been a good thing to draw attention to in this bill too. Early childhood education should primarily be organised by the municipality, and the pursuit of early childhood education should not jeopardise the quality, equality and provision of public services. Similarly, early childhood education structures must not lead to excessive profits. Mr President! It is worth remembering that the child’s participation in early childhood education is reflected in later learning outcomes and prevents exclusion. It is therefore important to increase the participation of Finnish children in early childhood education at European level by gradually making early childhood education free of charge. In Finland, 68 per cent of three-year-olds, 76 per cent of 4-year-olds and 78 per cent of 5-year-olds participate in early childhood education, while in other Nordic countries, for example, these figures are more than 95 per cent, bringing them closer to 100 per cent. My personal view is that the best way to encourage participation in early childhood education is to make it free of charge in the same way as pre-school education has been done. The loss of a sibling's allowance for home care support should also not prevent the participation of children over 3 years of age in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u156	Mr President! Investing in early childhood education is one of the best future investments we can make. Early childhood education promotes the development of children’s language and cognitive skills and improves school preparedness and subsequent success on the school path. Early childhood education also has a positive impact on the development of children's socio-emotional skills. There seems to be broad consensus among researchers on the benefits of early childhood education. All children benefit from early childhood education, but particularly effective for children from the weakest conditions, whose growth environment has factors that hamper their development, such as health problems or problems of social interaction. However, benefits will only be realised if early childhood education is of sufficient quality. So only high-quality early childhood education is a future investment, not just any early childhood education. The government’s previous savings in early childhood education undermine its quality and deepen the inequality of children. The messages I hear from early childhood education fields are more than worrying. In large groups, individual consideration of children is difficult, and the loss and arrival of part-time children make them restless. In a constantly changing group, learning social skills is more difficult. Many professionals have said that the conflict between reality and professional identity is so great that they are exhausted in their work. The development of the quality of early childhood education is based on the experience of professionals that, in large groups and in the constant change of children, they are unable to do their basic work in a high-quality way and to meet children as individuals. A professional in early childhood education told me that he did not want to work in a day care centre when the groups were so large that the work seemed to be “slip belt work”. Many parents have also reported that they would not want to take their child to day care, for large groups are making the children restless and no one will be able to respond to the needs of the children. I would have liked to have heard what the Minister will reply to these messages because I know that the Minister is getting exactly the same messages as I am getting from that airport. The limitation of subjective day care rights to 20 weekly hours for children whose guardians do not work full-time, study full-time or act as entrepreneurs is also unequal. The limitation of the right to day care has divided families and children into different baptisms. Why do children of the unemployed receive less early childhood education than others? Would these children not be particularly in need of full - time early education? In the case of a child who is subject to a restriction, an extended day-care right may be applied for and generally granted in the municipality. For example, the child’s need for support, child welfare and family conditions may be justified. But even here problems have been noted: these children are easily labeled as children of troubled families. Two out of three municipalities have limited the right to day care, and small municipalities in particular have done so. In other words, equal early childhood education services are not implemented in different parts of Finland. The more residents in the municipality, the less demarcation opportunities have been used. In many municipalities where demarcations were made at the beginning, decisions were subsequently withdrawn. In this debate, Mr Zyskowicz said or suggested that Minister Grahn-Laasonen was also opposed to restrictions on subjective day care rights, but the Minister himself did not answer the question. I really would have liked to know if that was the case. If that is the case, the government would now have the opportunity to correct the serious mistake it has made. Mr President! This bill does not correct the quality of early childhood education if the size of the group is still too high or if the extent of early childhood education depends on the labour market status of the parents. I also hope that the committee will take seriously the greetings of professionals who have come out of the grievances of this proposal. It is important that early childhood education includes not only pedagogical skills, but also social and social competence, as well as the special skills provided by nannies from the health sector. Children also have more and more different medical treatments, for example, and in their implementation the health skills of local nurses, or nannies, are absolutely essential. Teaching, education and care form a functional whole, and teamwork from different professionals brings the best results and benefits to children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u157	Mr President! Early years are the most important for the child’s life and educational path. Early childhood provides opportunities for learning, social interaction and the future of the child. That is why it is important that we finally have a proposal here in Parliament that strengthens the quality of early childhood education and pedagogy. The law will allow genuine multi-professional cooperation to improve the use of the different skills of early farmers. Mr President! Early schoolers are all doing extremely important work. Without professionals in the field, there would be no way of achieving the objectives of the law and the early childhood education plan. The draft law proposes a reform of the staff structure. In the future, at least two thirds of the staff of early childhood education groups will be pedagogical professionals with higher education. In the future, each professional group will play an important role in day care centres. The eligibility criteria are being checked, but with regard to the false statement made in public, I would like to say to everyone that no one who is currently qualified for kindergarten teacher's duties will lose their eligibility as a result of this amendment of the law. With regard to the changes to the staff structure of the Act, the transition period is long and will fully enter into force in 2030. This will enable municipalities to prepare for changes in the staff structure, and it will also be possible to increase the level of training required at national level. Mr President! Finland has the lowest participation rate in early childhood education in the Nordic countries. This cannot continue. We have seen a decline in educational outcomes for a long time. The differences between girls and boys have also increased in some places, and this too has recently been addressed in the Ministry and asked for further insight from researchers, which is why. It is of primary importance that the participation rate of early childhood education can be increased. A key measure here is gradually to move towards free part-time early childhood education. This period has already seen a reduction in early childhood education fees, which has made it possible for children to move to free early childhood education more and more. Mr President! The Government's proposal contains many important individual points for organising early childhood education and improving quality. An example could be the registration of shift care at the level of the law. This clarifies the current interpretations of its organisation and is a very good addition. In addition, the regulation of data reserves can increase the sector's human capital. Bringing data regulation together in a single law is a step forward in the current model. Electronic systems can also improve communication between the day care centre and the family. In this Chamber, we have also discussed who is raising children. In early childhood education, there is talk of a parenting partnership. This means that not only the day-care centre staff, the pedagogics professionals, but also the child’s family are obviously involved in raising the child. This parenting partnership cannot be outsourced to the day-care centre, it is quite clear, but early childhood education plans jointly plan the best way to secure the development of the child and the path of learning. This law further strengthens this. In addition, much has been said about providing support for children under school age and early childhood education. I would like to remind you that, although we do not have three-step support in early childhood education, we still have special kindergarten teachers and we have people with socio-economic training. This new law can also strengthen the interaction between maternity clinics and early childhood education, for example. At present, many municipalities are doing an excellent job in ensuring that maternity clinics and early childhood education services work together and that the child can be offered the support he needs, either in connection with early childhood education or through a maternity clinic outside early childhood education. Finally, Mr President, every child must have the right to non-discrimination and equal treatment. Under no circumstances should bullying be allowed. I am extremely pleased that the early childhood education law finally includes an obligation for staff to intervene in bullying. Every child deserves a precious childhood. A child must have the right to be a child, the right to joy, play and care. I think that the law is very supportive of this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u158	Mr President! Let me start with this bigger picture, where the entire early childhood education law is based. When you look at this section of education and research and the international work that has been done, which I myself have been able to follow under the leadership of Professor Lasse Lipponen, especially in Finland and at international events in recent years, and when you really run into comparisons, we often find ourselves in the top position in Finland, and quite often the same way that we do not even necessarily know about these comparisons. It may be quite positive news in a way, but it is good to see that decades of work has brought this about. That is why I also believe that strengthening and valuing early childhood education is an international issue. We can also influence the children of the world through our actions, and in a certain way it is also Finland's responsibility. Our early education is progressive in global comparison, and it is good if that is the way the laws are. Therefore, the fact that we are currently updating a law that is older than I am, from the beginning of the 1970s, seems to everyone to be very justified. It is therefore welcome that Parliament should be able to deal with this legislative package that has been prepared for the parliamentary term at this stage. Mr President! Early education according to the Finnish model, and thus winning the Starting well indexes, is based on this educare thinking, that is, the kind of thinking in which every situation is a learning situation. So the most essential aspect of both this law and our whole thinking on early childhood education is the perspective that leaves the child. Everything is child-oriented, and the main thing is in the best interests of the child. This is all very welcome and is also at the heart of this law. I brought the most obvious problem of this law in that debatation earlier, and it was lacking in a delightful number in this Chamber, namely that the law does not take a stand on the folly that we ourselves have done in recent years by excluding many children from early childhood education, from full-time education, and specifically by classifying children among those whose parents are, for example, unemployed or immigrant mothers. So our child - oriented early education has suddenly come from the fact that children are classified according to their parents. In the debate, I asked the Minister whether the preparation of the law took account of the estimates and research that we have on these weaknesses. Unfortunately, I have not yet received an answer to that question. Instead, we heard in this Chamber that Mr Zyskowicz has changed his mind on the subject, and he specifically referred to the research and studies that have been carried out. In this way, this is a serious place for the Minister, namely people's understanding of political decision-making is, of course, a test if we are dealing with the early childhood education law right now, and there is one key element here: whether all children are fully involved — this is also the biggest debate in this debate — and then there are two different messages from within the same party or there is no reply from the Minister at all. Well, I'm sure we'll get it here today or during the course of this law. In a spirit of decision-making that trusts in the same research, it is also necessary to comment on this level of participation which is on the table here and to which the Minister referred. Indeed, it has been low in Finland for a long time, compared internationally, and that is why, for example, pre-school education during the previous parliamentary term was introduced into compulsory education. There have indeed been measures in this period. However, in January, the Economic Policy Review Council expressed some doubts that they have not been the most effective way of spending money specifically to increase the level of participation. They may have had other effects. Mr President! I have to say here that I am proud of my own hometown and of the movement of cities that Helsinki has been at the forefront of all the time thinking about the best interests of children and not doing the weakening of early childhood education and the sorting of children. We have stood up for education and education by maintaining subjective day care rights and sound groups. Now it is good to see that these impact assessments lead to others coming along, perhaps even the Finnish State. The movement for progress, the Social Democrats and, of course, the cities are also constantly developing new ones. Among other things, we are looking at a nearby day-care centre and an option in which children and their families of the future will hopefully build more and more in connection with their own small community’s nearby day-care centre and local school. Mr President! One thing that saddens me when this precious law comes into being is how the government has given birth to a situation in which many highly respected professionals in this field really now feel uncertain and full of questions. At this point, I would like to thank you for the many contacts we have all received. It also shows the strength of civil society. And these contacts have come from a wide range of points of view, not from one or another direction. On my own behalf and on behalf of the SDP colleagues, I promise that the draft law will, of course, be examined very carefully in committee, including from the point of view of qualifications and training requirements and continuing training. Mr President! Of course, why I am saddened by the uncertainty experienced by professionals in this field is that, if I am convinced of something — and I believe that this belief is shared by many — then that early childhood education professionals are in the calling field. They who seek the best early childhood education in the world every day. They are pursuing the happiest children in the world who would not be measured to death, as is done in many countries of the world, but who are being prepared for the world of the future. Mr President! Finally, Finnish early childhood education could perhaps be described as raising children who do not adapt to change but who change the world themselves. In this spirit, Mr President, Minister, we are going to the committee to clear the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u159	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u160	We will now resume the debate on the 4th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u161	Mr President! The development of early childhood education is extremely important. The conditions under which Finnish children grow up contribute to their entire future. High-quality early childhood education is an integral part of the Finnish education system and is indeed the top international level. Early childhood education must be reformed ahead of the child's interests, and a safe environment for growth and quality early childhood education must be made possible for all children. I am therefore in favour of improving the flow of information between the home, the day care centre and the authorities, as it serves the best interests of the child. Bullying must be stopped both in day care centres and in schools. Bullying is a terrible thing, and it is particularly harmful to bullies, but also to bullies, as well as to the general atmosphere in day-care centres and schools. It is in everyone’s interest that day care centres have sufficient staff. This will allow not only high-quality early childhood education but also, for example, more effective intervention in bullying cases. Those famous hand pairs are needed. Group sizes are too big. At the moment, many day care centres are suffering from a shortage of staff. How can one focus on teaching and upbuilding children if all time goes largely to dressing, undressing, and changing diapers? The urgency also affects the ability of the staff to cope. Both children and workers suffer from staff shortages and this problem should be resolved urgently. Mr President! Qualification requirements are a hot topic for discussion in the reform of the early childhood education law. We have all received a huge number of contacts from worried socionomist kindergarten teachers. Concerns about jobs are justified. I consider it a bad thing to change the qualifications of the government in connection with early childhood education. Are polytechnic socionomists as qualified early childhood education professionals as those who have studied on the university's side? I have been following the debate on this subject for years and I have heard numerous arguments for and against it. My own view is that the education offered by the university of applied sciences enables the achievement of a comparable level of professional competence with university studies. Future socio-nomics studying on the polytechnic side often have even greater social skills, which may prove very useful in today's kindergarten teacher's work. The status of socionomies should not be undermined. At present, the main problem in day-care centres is not employees' job descriptions or titles, but the fluency of practical work. There is a shortage of trained early childhood education professionals. In Finnish day care centres there are tons of nannies who work well. New qualifications can also pose a threat to them. Although the proposal guarantees the ability of old school teachers to be a teacher of early childhood education, they are not in an equal position with the graduates of education. Article 37 of the Staff Structure is problematic, and it can be said that in practice it discriminates against socio-moms. In view of the current situation in the field, the current state of personnel competence and possible training pathways for socionomies on the university side are not necessary and in the best interests of children. True Finns do not want socioms and nannyes in the card. The views of municipalities are similar in many respects. Mr President! Just a few more words about hiring at day care. Of course, that is not a solution to this Chamber, but it is now a problem for the trade unions. Very underpaid are members of the day care staff. We need to find a better solution. The responsibility is high, the pay is low. Cooperation between home and family, child health clinics and day care centres is very important. All joint phases are important. Representative Huhtasaari raised the importance of home and family today in this Chamber, and it should never be underestimated. Cooperation must be promoted at all stages of the joint process, even when you go from upper secondary school to polytechnic or continue studying from vocational schools. Arthralgia is important. It is also a good thing to do, and when things are in order, it can even prevent exclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u162	Mr President! The child’s best interests must be at the heart of the reform of early childhood education. This means that every child must have access to quality early childhood education. The government's proposal for a new law on early childhood education brings many welcome reforms, but many major improvements were not made by the government. Compared to other European countries, Finland has the least participation in early childhood education. In most cases, the most vulnerable children who would benefit most from early childhood education will be excluded. Studies show that early childhood education can compensate for differences in learning due to family background and prevent exclusion. The most important way to develop early childhood education would be to restore a full-time subjective day care right for each child. The Sipilä government limited this child’s right on the basis of parental status at the beginning of the reign. Children’s access to early childhood education must not depend on whether their parents are at work or at home. It must not depend on their income either. In early childhood education, therefore, it is necessary to move gradually towards free-of-charge, starting from the age of 5. A prerequisite for good early childhood education is that every child has the opportunity to have sufficient adult time and attention. The Sipilä government expanded the group sizes when we should have done the other way around. Group sizes should therefore be reduced and, in the case of children over 3 years of age, the person size should be restored to seven children per adult. This is in the interests of both children and early childhood education workers. The government proposal is now the first step in the reform of early childhood education, but many other steps are needed. Mr President! The good thing about the Early Education Act is that it secures the multiprofessional nature of early childhood education. There will continue to be a need for different types of workers in early childhood education through different training courses, backgrounds and strengths. Sosionoms have valuable expertise in multiprofessional cooperation. Their contribution is critical to ensuring seamless cooperation between early childhood education and child protection and other family services. In turn, pedagogical skills of kindergarten teachers are central to the ability to support the learning of children from early childhood education. Their knowledge creates a continuum from early childhood education to basic education. The new law strengthens the role of early childhood education as part of the school path. The day care centre is not just a place for play but increasingly a place for learning where the challenges of growth and development can be addressed early. In the future, each child will have the right to know both the socionomist and the kindergarten teacher. I think this is very important. In addition to the qualifications of early childhood education staff, it must also be ensured that they are adequate. Further training of current early childhood education professionals must be made effective so that everyone has the opportunity to continue training within the transitional period of the law. There is also a need for adequate training of new professionals. In that case, the resources of education must also be secure. Education has been cut too much, even though the future of our children rests on it from the point of view of trained professionals as well as of children and young people themselves. Now we have to reverse the sled, and we have to invest in education rather than in surgery. Where necessary, the transitional periods for the qualifications of early childhood education workers should be reviewed in order to ensure that qualified staff do not lead to additional staff turnover. Mr President! There is yet another major part of early childhood education that is not corrected by law. It'll be fixed with money. This is about hiring early childhood education professionals. An adequate remuneration must be paid to motivated and important staff for their work. Now that is not the case. Early childhood education professionals, the majority of them women, are in a pay gap. In the context of the reform of the Early Childhood Education Act, it must be ensured that the day care centre will continue to be a desirable job for dedicated educators. The permanence of employees is important from the point of view of children. It is about time that the talk about the importance of early childhood education was also reflected in the employee pay bag.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u163	Mr President! The most moving moment of today's parliamentary debate was probably experienced when Mr Zyskowicz acknowledged that he has changed his position on the fact that the definition of subjective day care is wrong after all. I hope I don't spoil the mood of regret and forgiveness by pointing out three things. First of all, Mr Zyskowicz thanked Mr Grahn-Laso for somehow making him see the light. However, in all these years this minister has defended this unjust decision unwaveringly. And, contrary to what Mr Zyskowicz says, this correction does not have to remain the first step in the next government. This is a year to move, cancel, this is a bad decision. Justice does not wait. And thirdly, researched data have been available three years ago on how the children of families at risk of exclusion are most in need of early childhood education. There has also been a lot of experience with our experts. I am not in any way a person in this field, nor am I in this Parliament specialising in this, but I remember very well that, among all the cuts that I have seen as unfair, it was this that exhilarated me so much that I used my first parliamentary speech in June 2015 on this theme, and I will test your patience by quoting two paragraphs: ‘In this statement,the desire is to focus only When you punish the unemployed, it's wrong, but they are, we are, at least adult people. Don't punish the children of the unemployed. When the family of the unemployed is deprived of the right to full-time child care, the government rejects those children who are at the greatest risk of exclusion. If the rest of the care is still paid for, the children of the poor will not receive early education at all and will not be among their peers. This surgery will ensure that exclusion and non-participation begin in kindergarten age. As the father of two and five-year-old children, it seems terrible that equality of education and opportunities has been abandoned, that children are divided into hereditary survivors and those who have been condemned to be deprived. Understand that this savings will be avenged in many ways in the years to come.” Now these kids are five and eight years old. For three years this injustice has continued. There is no reason to wait for the next election and the next government. This wrong decision may be withdrawn immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u164	Mr President! It is very easy to agree with Mr Haraka's speech. I was not in this Chamber during the debate during the day when we were talking about this early childhood education law and I did not hear the change in Mrs Zyskowicz's opinion on this matter, but, just as Mrs Harakka said, there is no reason to wait for the next government, but that correction should be made now, just as already the government's wrong decision through the ploy was well known for all that research into the importance of early childhood education for the child's entire lifelong learning path, for his survival, for his entry into a profession, for his working life, for his success, for his income in fact, for everything. And on this point, now that the government has been patching up its major educational cuts in some places, when they feel that there is more money now, this would certainly be the first thing that should be corrected. We must thank the smart municipalities who, through their own municipal decisions, have withdrawn this government decision and yet offer every child early childhood education because it is extremely important. And as long as we talk about the prevention of exclusion and are concerned about it, that speech will certainly be pointless if we do not correct this problem, because this is a fundamental problem, according to all studies, and it is the children who are most at risk of exclusion that will benefit most.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u165	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. The deadline for the referral is 2 hours between 6 and 20 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u166	Mr President! The education reforms will continue and move on to the reform of upper secondary schools. Upper secondary school is a unique time on the threshold of adulthood. It is an opportunity for our young people to learn a variety of new things, to broaden their horizons and culture. In upper secondary school, it is very valuable that you can study a wide range of subjects, learn comprehensively. And that's the most important thing in high school, general education. General education will continue to be the core and heart of upper secondary school education. In recent years, researchers have been concerned about whether high school will be a little out of hand in this development of the education system. Age groups are getting smaller, knowledge is needed more and more in the future, but the attractiveness of general upper secondary school has even been a matter of concern. In addition, there is concern about the crumbling of the knowledge base, the weariness of high school students and heavy stress, the falling learning outcomes and the low-blocked road to higher education. That is why today is a big day, because we are bringing a government proposal to the House that proposes a new law on upper secondary school. The proposal relates to the reform of upper secondary school education in line with the Government Action Plan, which aims to strengthen the attractiveness and quality of upper secondary school education and to facilitate the transition from upper secondary school to further studies. The aim is for upper secondary school education to be even better able to meet the requirements of postgraduate studies, future working life, internationalism. The new law on upper secondary school has been prepared in broad and active stakeholder cooperation in a good spirit. The preparatory work has involved actors in upper secondary school education, experts, both in the monitoring group and in the comprehensive regional round. The participation of teachers and students in the preparatory work has been valuable. It's in the end result. During the consultation round, the reform of the upper secondary school was considered necessary and the orientations of the proposal were considered to be successful. The proposed law will reform the structure of upper secondary school education. The aim is to promote the organisation of more extensive courses and studies across subjects, to reduce the fragmented nature of upper secondary school studies, and also to promote the development of comprehensive knowledge independent of the main content of subjects during upper secondary school studies. In the future, credits would be used instead of courses as the basis for the dimensioning of the number of courses and the studies covered by them. Education could be more free to cross the boundaries of the subject and the organiser of the education should decide the extent of the studies to be organised. Regional and local strengths can also be better taken into account in the planning of upper secondary school education. There is no intention to change the subjects and the number or compulsory nature of their studies in relation to the current situation. The proposed law also aims to promote the well-being, endurance and motivation of upper secondary school students, support students in their studies and facilitate the progress of studies and the transition to further studies. The right of students to receive guidance for studies would be strengthened, and the guidance would be even more personalised. Guidance would also be given to those who do not receive a post-secondary study place after upper secondary school. In addition, provision would be made for the right to special education and other support for learning. This strengthens the equality of students and the ability to study in upper secondary schools regardless of, for example, reading or other learning difficulties. The new law would guarantee all upper secondary school students the opportunity to get to know, peek, study at higher education institutions and complete a course organised in cooperation with higher education institutions. In this way, higher education studies would become familiar to students during the upper secondary school period, which would promote further studies and the development of career plans for students and facilitate the transition to higher education. A peek at higher education studies will facilitate the choice of the field and give insights as to what university education is and what it requires. In future, the student would also have a stronger opportunity to develop his/her international competence and competence in working life and entrepreneurship in upper secondary school, which are key and important for students in the future. The reform will support the opening up of upper secondary schools to the surrounding society, the development of a culture of action in upper secondary schools based more strongly on cooperation and community, taking individual needs into account, more diverse. Restrictions on the frequency of renewal of the matriculation examination would be waived. This is particularly necessary at a time when the student choices of higher education institutions are being strengthened into the matriculation examination. Thus, the reform will also reduce the stress associated with the matriculation exams. The laws would enter into force as early as autumn 2019. New curricula and teaching, guidance and support in accordance with the new law would be introduced in upper secondary school education starting in autumn 2021, i.e. there are transition periods, because we do not want to burden upper secondary schools but to allow everyone to get involved in this development. The changes to the renewal of the matriculation examination would take effect already in the autumn 2019 matriculation examination. In addition to the present proposal, a broader government proposal on the reform of the legislation on matriculation examination will be prepared to be submitted to Parliament in the autumn. The preparation of the proposal already takes into account the work done in the development of the Gaudeamus igitu Group on the development of the matriculation examination, and the results of the study on the English matriculation examination and its implementation will also be included in this legislation. I hope that this debate will give a good boost to the development of this important and truly inspiring legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u167	Thank you. Let's start with one of those rascal debuts. I would ask those who wish to participate to stand up and press the V button. — — — — This will be initiated by Mr Puumala, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u168	Mr President! There are a lot of good things in this law now, and I believe that there would be reasonable satisfaction in the hall from scratch: special education and support and also money reserved for it, own curriculum, more personal guidance, long-needed things for upper secondary school students, cross the boundaries of subjects, closer university cooperation, stronger internationalism, post-secondary guidance obligations also for upper secondary schools, that is to say, care will be taken even after the upper secondary school has left. Excellent things, important, long-awaited steps. I'd like to ask the minister, how do you see vocational school now? We did a big reform there just recently, and is my synchronization now good between high school and vocational school, are the student's rights and obligations similar, are those support services at the same level in high school and vocational school? It is important that they are kept in the same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u169	Mr President! I would like to take a catch from that speech by Mr Puumala. In many ways, this good high school presentation by the government brings such a new, strong branch. Upper secondary schools are launching stronger cooperation with higher education institutions. I think it is all right, but I am concerned that the upper secondary school should also cooperate with vocational education as vocational education and training does with the upper secondary school, and this was quite lightly now in this government proposal. What does the Minister think, can it be confirmed? Another thing I'm worried about is when the main function of high school is general education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u172	Mr President! There's a lot of good, good things in this high school law. Increased flexibility in learning, the responsibility of the teacher to tackle bullying, the importance of good conduct and a safe study environment are good things, cooperation with universities — there should also be a little more cooperation with vocational institutions. Internationalisation is a good thing. Personal guidance is a good thing, but I would like to ask the Minister: how does it manifest itself in concrete terms? How does this study guidance work out in concrete terms? I am very concerned and the Finns of Finland are concerned about the narrowing of the upper secondary school network. There will be a lot of obligations, so it is likely that the upper secondary school network will shrink automatically. What happens then in community schools? [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u173	Madam President! As has already been said at the mouth of several representatives, there is a lot of good in this proposal: it encourages cross-disciplinary learning, emphasises internationality, working life and entrepreneurial skills, and then strengthens cooperation between upper secondary schools and higher education institutions. It is also valuable to leave quite a lot of space to the organisers of education at regional level, as it were to create their own entity. I think it's very valuable, but at the same time, I think maybe there's a pretty big responsibility on the other side of it. It puts quite a lot of new pressure on innovation and the ability to see everything that can be built regionally from the point of view of leadership or leadership in general. How much of this has been discussed or prepared for, for example, this kind of management support? How do we ensure that similar delicious innovative entities are created regionally throughout Finland, be it a small locality or a large place, or have little or much experience of doing this kind?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u174	Mr President! I agree with these estimates that this bill contains a lot of good guidelines. Strengthening university cooperation is a good thing. Broader study modules and the strengthening of the support received by students are absolutely worthwhile objectives. This preliminary examination of the committee has mainly raised concerns with regard to the timetable for the preparation of ops, and also with regard to the fact that, for some reason, the mention of this part of upper secondary school education has been deleted that it also provides the capacity to continue in vocational education, which I myself wonder. In fact, my main concerns relate to the fact that, although I agree with the Minister that the strengthening and importance of general education is a key principle, and to reducing the stress of students, in my opinion, increasing the weight of matriculation examination in student choice is at odds with these objectives, and it is a pity that the process has now taken a different course, which means that we in Parliament have not been able to deal with how it will actually affect the content of upper secondary school education and the choices of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u175	Mr President, värderade talman! In my opinion, too, there is a lot of good in this bill, but a few comments like this and perhaps also a question to the Minister about how to proceed from now on: Today, in committee, the OAJ spoke of quality criteria that should be considered in the future. Not that there will be some sort of ranking list, but quality criteria that would help with this substantive development. Then I think about the fact that it is extremely good and valuable to really invest in special education and guidance, but are there any of these qualified teachers? Do we have enough special teachers, do we have enough qualified tutors to really achieve this fine and good goal? And the last question is the cost. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u176	Mr President! As we have heard, there is little or no criticism in this bill. This is a very positive proposal. This proposal aims to strengthen the role of upper secondary school as education and the attractiveness of upper secondary school education. I particularly welcome the fact that upper secondary schools are increasingly required to cooperate with higher education institutions, which will certainly help high school students to see what and what kind of sector they want to focus on in the future. However, I would like to ask: now that the upper secondary schools are sure to want to cooperate more with higher education institutions, would it be necessary to impose an obligation on universities to cooperate with upper secondary schools in order to ensure that all upper secondary schools are on an equal footing? In general, however, I would like to thank you for this excellent piece of legislation, and it is great that we will be able to deal with it in greater detail in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u177	President! The government, at least in matters of education policy, cannot be blamed for inaction. There has been a reform of vocational education and training, the last two hours were talked about reforming early childhood education, and now there is a reform of the secondary school law, which has been in force for 20 years and which has been parsed many times, even so that the seams may already fail. However, this is a moderate reform, and it is precisely this general education that is taking place ahead of us. I was very pleased to see this cooperation in higher education. Personally, I would have gone further and talked about a university or university degree, that we would have gone for a couple of weeks as we would go to work. It is a great thing that a future high school student already has a sense, a deeper sense than we have had, of what university and university studies are. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u178	Mr President! There is a lot of good in the bill, including more guidance. At the same time, the vast majority of upper secondary school students do not have a clear picture of what different fields of study lead to, and at the same time, only those who have successfully acquired their summer work will have access to professional skills. Particular attention must be paid to the quality of upper secondary school guidance in order to enable individual study paths to take place and to speed up access to post-secondary education and to give young people a clear picture of the future working life and its various possibilities. It is also good that the bill promises special education and support for upper secondary school students. Contrary to this wish, however, 70 per cent of the municipalities responsible have not been able to organise student and student care services in accordance with the requirements of the Student and Student Care Act, which came into force in 2014. This is a bad thing, and it is important that the development and resources of upper secondary school education pay attention to this issue, namely improving school well-being, because high school students really find their work rather burdensome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u179	Mr President! Indeed, the law at hand is an important opening in the development of upper secondary school education. Of course, there is still a great deal to be done to modernise secondary school education to these modern needs and to further increase this diversity in the future, but this is a good start towards it. Above all, it is important for university cooperation to be increased and secured also for small upper secondary schools, so that all Finnish upper secondary school students can get to know university studies. This is already being done, for example, in my own home home, studies in robotics and programming will be started in collaboration with the University of Applied Sciences in the autumn. This is also important for the development of the region in these areas. Mr President! I would have asked: how to ensure that all upper secondary schools and upper secondary schools have access to these higher education studies in the future, and also how to secure resources and the network of small upper secondary schools and the accessibility of upper secondary school studies for all Finns in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u180	Mr President! The development of upper secondary school education to meet today's requirements is of course of paramount importance for our level of education and, for example, this higher education crane is a step in the right direction, as is the possibility of developing working life capacity. But, as Mr Jarva has just mentioned, I would also ask the Minister: how can we in practice ensure that in small towns too, in small upper secondary schools, these conditions will be secured in the future and that the new opportunities offered do not apply only to the major upper secondary schools of the largest localities, the higher education cities? Mr President! In this proposal, the personal curriculum is now recorded at the level of the law, which is very positive. The Finns of Peru drew attention to the importance of student guidance already in the alternative budget last autumn. Effective student guidance significantly reduces the drop-out of studies and thus marginalisation, and it is of course important to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u181	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, there are many good things in this proposal, such as this particular assurance of student guidance and special education and other support for learning for upper secondary school children, and it is extremely important that sufficient resources are also provided for these, so that it does not remain on the hands of the municipality, whether it can afford to carry them out, but that these costs are fully covered. There has also been concern that this in itself a very good objective of increasing cooperation with universities is being implemented throughout Finland. I myself met high school students in Eastern Finland some time ago — they were here in Parliament — and there was concern about how to get to Lieksa, for example, the same opportunities that exist in Joensuu, where there is both a university of applied sciences and a university of applied sciences. Moreover, these young people were also concerned about how the general education of upper secondary school is guaranteed. This law does not now refer to their compulsory nature in different subjects, but it is a genuine concern about how, in the future, as further studies are more and more defined by the matriculation examination and upper secondary school grades,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u182	Mr President! This is a bill where everyone wins. Upper secondary school students win: they have easier career selection, receive personal guidance and support. Universities win: they receive more academically prepared students as students. Working life will win: the years will decline, the capacity for working life will improve, and the students will graduate earlier. We have had one problem in society because we are too late to graduate. Personally, I would also like to increase cooperation with universities so that there will be more campuses where upper secondary schools and higher education institutions would be under the same roof or at least in the same yard. This has at least been planned, if not already implemented, for Aalto University.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u183	Madam President! This is a fine legal reform, but it is not an enormously comprehensive one. This goes on with the series of supplements that have been made, but it's all right. I would like to ask a specialist about the removal of health information from the legislation. Only religion is now going to be separately defined. It is a question of its own, but when we look at the historical context, we remember that in the recession of the early 1990s, when the municipalities cut a lot of education and, in particular, health information was often on the line of fire — it was reduced and even abandoned in many upper secondary schools — it happened that after a few years the number of teenage pregnancies started to grow. Therefore, Lipponen’s first government decided to make health information a compulsory subject. Surely we all assume that high-quality sexual education and education at all levels is essential. It's in the best interests of all of us. I would like to ask the Minister: have you taken these considerations into account, and will adequate sexual education continue to be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u184	Mr President! Upper secondary school should continue to be developed as a general school, while at the same time making cooperation between different educational institutions more flexible. This is where higher education comes in. I have been asked in exactly the same way whether this is possible for all upper secondary schools, small upper secondary schools, distant secondary schools, when I think that the idea should be that every young person in Finland would have the opportunity to attend high school as close as possible to home. This will probably have to be done, or it will be possible, to introduce studies arranged in a different way in small upper secondary schools, as digital and distance education and as network-based activities, in order to provide students with a wide range of opportunities to study in the same way as they themselves want in their own plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u185	Mr President! I want to thank you, too. There are a lot of good things here. For example, it is worthwhile to develop the possibilities of re-testing. We believe that this will have an effect on the well-being and stress-reducing of high school students. There is a need to reform the entrance exams and admission systems for postgraduate studies in higher education, but we do not think that it makes sense to build the student selection too much on the matriculation examination, because people must always have the opportunity to start over. Yes, it was. Even Einstein, I think, has fours on a school certificate. I met with high school students, and they asked me to ask about this concern that the High School Union has: “Just protecting against bullying, violence and harassment, but teachers and principals have a duty to intervene and inform the mother of the bullying and bullying of the Constitutional Law. According to the 2015 school health survey, 85 per cent of upper secondary school students who have been harassed feel that school adults do not
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u186	Mr President! The proposal for a new secondary school law is very good and worthy of support. Even the opposition seems to find little to criticise. There has been concern about individual support, student guidance, but I am sure that when the opposition gets to know this law, those concerns will also be lifted. It is the personal support that is important to the student's everyday life, always special education and increased guidance, that really improves in this new law. The new upper secondary school is more international and flexible, while the general role of the upper secondary school is strengthened. Many important things in it also contribute to cooperation with higher education institutions and to the preparation and preparation of students for higher education and thus towards working life. Good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u187	Mr President! Here I appreciate this general approach, modernisation, university cooperation and guidance. Perhaps in the draft law I need a broader perspective on the development of secondary education, from which we have received the message from many quarters in this country that this is our broad objective, the completion of a secondary degree for the whole age group, and that is where the upper secondary school is at the heart of the matter. How does this relate to this whole big picture, that's what you could have thought a little about in the original texts of the law. As a question to the Minister, I would like to ask you a question about safeguarding a certain kind of peace of work in upper secondary schools in the midst of various reforms. After all, we are now in parallel with a number of reforms at the same time — 2016 came into force with the previous ops, we have the digitalization of the matriculation examination, which will complete the first full next year, the class-gathering which started last year — and now we would like to see 2021 be a new ops, two years after the first age group has reached the finish line with these previous ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u188	Let us take three more replies, and then we have all gone once more, except that, finally, I will give the chairman of the Committee on Culture the floor, and then the Minister's reply. So Honkonen, Karimäki, Puumala and the Minister's answer, and then we go to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u189	Madam President! Indeed, I think it is very logical that, now that this parliamentary term has been reformed in the past, there will now be some very necessary and good updates to our high-school education and upper secondary education system as well. In particular, I am pleased about what I have received feedback from several students that it will be possible to renew the matriculation examination without any restrictions in the future. Another thing, perhaps a little more pedagogical, is the recognition of knowledge acquired elsewhere. It is true that whether we look at the education system or the vocational education and training system, we are still a long way behind many other countries on how to recognise knowledge acquired elsewhere in life. This, I hope, will make that element a better part of education, and I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u190	Mr President! There are many good elements in this government proposal for a secondary school law, such as the possibility of special education and the wide scope of upper secondary school education. Of course, I share the concern expressed here by the representatives that general education, for example, should be carefully implemented in committee. It is very good to have this cooperation in higher education, but the very fact that it is possible everywhere, in small upper secondary schools and in remote areas is very important to ensure that we are in committee. After all, we have long had and established this classless idea that everyone can study and choose subjects at their own pace, and it is a very widely supported and well-tested system, but, on the other hand, it gives rise to the fact that young people, especially those who withdraw, no longer have the support of their own group and class around them. I would ask the Minister: how can we improve community in high school and reduce loneliness?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u191	Then there is Mr Puumala, chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u192	Madam Speaker! Maybe there's one more thing I'd like to say to you about the future in high school. That is already involved, and I would like it to become a living part of future high school education, namely these high school diplomas. I'd probably call it a portfolio. I would think that, in the same way as in that vocational education, the continuing evidence of competence in the future high school would be even more than it is now — not just that three years are being prepared for the Olympic Games, that is to say the matriculation exams, and only on their terms there will be action, but that you could provide screens constantly, carry out studies across the academic boundaries, collect your own electronic portfolio, your own knowledge folder. That knowledge folder would then also be relevant when you go to college, it would see its development and maturity. What do you think, Minister, about this whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u193	Mr Grahn-Laasonen will then answer these questions, no more than five minutes. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u194	Thank you. That's very encouraging. — Mr President! Upper secondary school broadens horizons, and our big task is to ensure that this happens for every high school student that adults support young people as they prepare for the next steps. It can be said that when this reform of the secondary school was carried out, we wanted to foster precisely two important core tasks in the upper secondary school, which are strong general education and, on the one hand, preparation for further studies, and this bill reinforces these important tasks. There has been concern about general education and its strengthening over the years that this task will be fulfilled in an increasingly complex, knowledge-intensive world. There has also been talk here in the Chamber of profound understanding, the importance of understanding larger entities, the skills of the future. I believe that it is this new upper secondary school structure, which enables the construction of multidisciplinary, interesting study modules, larger entities in upper secondary school education, that strengthens the general role of upper secondary school. And I would like to underline what has already been said that this law does not reduce history, does not reduce health information, does not alter the balance between subjects, does not make any of the current subjects voluntary, but enables cooperation across subjects and gives teachers new tools to cooperate and open up upper secondary schools even more strongly to the surrounding society: strong internationalism, internationalisation, a strong link to working life, entrepreneurship perspectives, new thinking on upper secondary school education. I would also like to say that the reform of upper secondary schools will, of course, also be followed by funding for municipalities. When there are new tasks, additional funding for upper secondary schools has been set aside for that purpose in the Government’s row last week, and it is about EUR 8.5 million. This will include important new tasks aimed at preventing and combating fatigue and stress, including through more personal study guidance. The arrival of special education in upper secondary school is a very important new issue, as is the requirement for post-secondary guidance for students who do not immediately receive a post-graduate place. We were asked how to take care of the community. I do think it's important, and these new study packages, these larger entities... Perhaps the problem with a classless high school was little that students often built their paths quite alone. It is now possible to form larger entities and, for example, a good improvement and the possibility that, for example, certain subjects that might benefit from teaching throughout the year can be taught throughout the year, such as languages, and not just in Sections 1 and 4, for example. This kind of reform of secondary schools opens up new opportunities of this kind, which may also lead to the sense of community and permanence, but also the possibility of personal paths that take greater account of the needs of students — this special education, of course, as a strong addition to it. The question was how to ensure cooperation between higher education institutions, how to strengthen equality from this point of view, too, that it is accessible to everyone. It is precisely for this reason that it is in this law and is firmly introduced into this legislation that it is the task of each upper secondary school in the future to ensure that every high school student has access to colleges already during his studies, that this opportunity is open and accessible to every high school student, not only to those upper secondary school students who study at Aalto University campus or who are otherwise geographically close to universities and universities of applied sciences. The important thing about university cooperation is that students have access to the areas they are interested in, to those universities, and that is why digital solutions, different networks and also the corresponding opening up of universities to upper secondary schools are also needed. That is what we have already agreed with universities at the beginning of this period in conjunction with the negotiation of agreements, and the universities are also very interested in this cooperation, because it is their future students. The government argument also became other good news for high school students. The student allowance for upper secondary school students will improve, the month of student support will increase, and so will the educational material supplement to ease the financial pressure on families and upper secondary school students, especially in those families that are less well-off and less well-off, where the cost of upper secondary school studies, the cost of learning materials, has even become an obstacle to upper secondary school studies. We want to get rid of this problem because equality of opportunity is an important value for us, and that is why the educational material supplement will now facilitate the position of high school students and their parents in a weak economic situation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u195	Then let's move on to the list of speakers. As you will recall, we have moved on to the practice of speaking for seven minutes and three minutes can be spoken from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u196	Mr President! It's a high school jubilee today, isn't it? Students have long been looking forward to the reform of high school. They'll have it in a minute. There are many excellent things in the presentation, but I would like to raise the one thing that has been praised here too, namely closer cooperation between upper secondary schools and higher education institutions. That's the kind of thing everyone wins in. Three things: First of all, high school kids win. Career selection will be easier because they will have access to the courses offered by higher education institutions. This will also make it easier for them to find the education they want to complete after high school. And this is possible now for every single high school student, so far it has not been possible for everyone. More personal guidance is also supporting these right choices. Secondly, universities benefit. They get students who are more ready and motivated to study. It is important that, even in high school, students acquire the academic skills needed in higher education institutions and learn scientific thinking and practice writing academic texts, such as essays. Higher education studies in upper secondary schools facilitate the transition to higher education and reduce intermediate years after upper secondary school. This means that study hours will be shorter and students will graduate more quickly. So then, thirdly, working life benefits from this law. In addition, almost every company today needs international expertise and understanding of larger entities, and the new curriculum strengthens these skills for students. Personally, I also hope that upper secondary schools could form even closer cooperation with higher education institutions and together form campuses. For example, something has already been thought about, thought about, perhaps even been implemented at Aalto University. This will best enable cooperation in higher education, to which upper secondary school students will in any case continue. And the idea of quality criteria, what has been said here, is also good and worthy of support. They have already been presented by the Coalition Party, and they have already been in basic education. Although the upper secondary school is general education and does not prepare for the profession, the three-year studies and the education capital accumulated during that period must be relevant. The best benefits for studies are provided when they create a strong basis for higher education studies. The credit system, to which the transition will take place, will also facilitate the transition to higher education institutions. This bill is excellent. Thank you, Minister, for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u197	Mr President! Comprehensive education and equality in education are key objectives of a social democratic education policy. The task of upper secondary school is to provide good general education, develop problem-solving and creativity, and strengthen critical and logical thinking. In an internationalising world, diverse language skills are particularly valuable. The bill contains good things, such as strengthening special education, personal curriculum and more personal guidance, and addressing bullying. These are all things that we Social Democrats have been pushing for for years. Mr President! It is good that the content of upper secondary school education is directed towards learning across subjects, which highlights the multidisciplinary approach. In upper secondary general education, the preparation for matriculation examination and, correspondingly, the general objectives of upper secondary general education are overemphasised. The Social Democrats believe that the mere increase in optionality does not meet the needs of high school students. In high school, students should not be forced into premature, important content exclusions. There is also a need to strengthen critical thinking, new forms of learning, community and closer interaction with the society around it. In the evaluation of upper secondary school education, new ways should be introduced to better evaluate the skills that students need in their lives. Instead of learning from outside, the student’s knowledge-search capabilities and the critical analysis of the source of information can be assessed. By the way, it is only a good thing that the matriculation examination can now be renewed as many times as it likes — here I am referring. Mr President! At present, the majority of upper secondary school students do not have a clear picture of what different fields of study lead to. At the same time, working life skills come mainly to those who acquire summer work, which is rarely equivalent to those in which higher education students operate. Particular attention must be paid to the quality of upper secondary school guidance in order to implement individual study paths and speed up the application process for post-secondary studies. In upper secondary school studies, the required amount of compulsory work experience should be placed, which can help to clarify the understanding of higher education curricula, which speeds up access to higher education and reduces error choices. Mr President! Reducing the tasks and obligations of municipalities can increase inequality in access to services for upper secondary school students and in terms of legal security. According to a study by the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, 70% of the municipalities responsible were unable to organise student and student care services in accordance with the requirements of the Student and Student Care Act, which entered into force in 2014. The development of upper secondary school education and the resources available for it must pay particular attention to improving school well-being. Upper secondary school students themselves find their studies too stressful. This is why greater attention needs to be paid to promoting psychosocial well-being, reducing school bullying, increasing school satisfaction, strengthening social cohesion and adequate support. Mr President! The main problem with the reform of the law on upper secondary schools, as it seems to be in almost all government work, is that there are currently several separate projects at the Ministry of Education and Culture aimed at developing the upper secondary school. Reforms appear fragmented and confused, sometimes without an overall view. The current curriculum came into force in autumn 2016, which means that it is currently mostly driven in. There is also a three-year class and full swing. The yo-scripts are also changing: the electronic yo-test will be moved to final in 2019. The next item on the list is the reform of the student selection of higher education institutions in a way that would make it possible to increase the weight of matriculation examination grades in the admission of higher education institutions. Also, the high school presentation does not interfere with funding. In the context of vocational education and training reform, the financial system was reformed to provide 50% basic funding, 35% performance funding and 15% effectiveness funding. This certainly does not bring secondary education closer to one another, but even contributes to greater differentiation. Double degrees combining upper secondary school education and vocational education have been very popular. The change in working life highlights the competence that both forms of secondary education produce. Therefore, it is very important that dual degrees continue to be available to young people in the future. The Social Democrats are in favour of closer cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education at administrative, educational and qualifications level. In the opinion of the SDP, the current matriculation examination, vocational qualifications and the completion of more than one degree as so-called composite studies should remain on a uniform second level. Mr President! Unfortunately, this bill does not include opening up the study of life views to all high school students. Viewers should be examined in the same way as other subjects, and the section on this should be deleted as unnecessary. As an alternative, the student should be able to choose for himself which religion he or she is studying or whether he or she is studying life-view information. The Ombudsman for Children has stated that ‘the law onreligious education should be increased to ensure that all children have equal rights to participate The Office of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman alsosubmitted an amendment to its opinion The situation of non-religious students would also improve as the supply of life views education is likely to increase, especially in small upper secondary schools. In this respect, the amendment of the law would not require a change to the decision on the subject matter and the division of hours, nor would it require a change to the national grounds of the curriculum and the curricula approved by the providers of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u198	Mr President! Upper secondary school is a respected form of general education. However, the attractiveness of upper secondary school education has waned recently and the attractiveness of upper secondary school as general education needs to be strengthened. From this point of view, the government’s decision to launch the reform of the upper secondary school was the right one. The objectives of the upper secondary school reform are very much to be welcomed. First, to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school as a form of further education, second, to strengthen the quality of education and learning outcomes, and thirdly to facilitate the transition from secondary to higher education. The Government’s high school bill is an excellent whole, which is extremely easy to support. The new law on upper secondary school contains elements to achieve the objectives set for the reform. Especially great is that in the future every high school student will be guaranteed the right to personal guidance. This will ensure that every young person is able to move to higher education and find his/her own field of future education in upper secondary school better than is currently possible. Adequate support and guidance will also improve the quality of upper secondary school education and the student’s further learning capacity. Mr President! The main task of upper secondary school reform is to ensure adequate general education for each student. This is the only way we can ensure that all students have the capacity to study in higher education regardless of the field. In the future, you cannot complete high school by reading only certain subjects. In the context of this reform, disputes between subjects or changes in the number of subjects were completely excluded, and I consider this to be a good solution in order to move forward with the reform of high school. However, I agree with the previous speaker, Mrs Eloranta, that in the future it might well be considered that participation in the philosophy of life would also be possible for students of religious denominations. By means of general education, we mean the management of large-scale skills, not just individual subjects. It is therefore one of the most important tasks of the upper secondary school to show its students how the issues dealt with in the upper secondary school are connected to the surrounding society. The new law will also contribute to this. There are no changes to the upper secondary school syllabus. The transition from courses to the credits system now enables the planning of cross-border study modules and facilitates the transition to higher education. In addition, the comparability of studies will improve. Mr President! The second stage cannot be a loose part of our education system. For years we have been talking about increasing cooperation between secondary and higher education institutions. Good experiences have been gained, but unfortunately the phenomenon has not spread to all upper secondary schools on a national scale. It is therefore very good that the law now both encourages and obliges the providers of upper secondary school education and higher education to cooperate with each other. In high school, high school students should have access to so-called peeking studies in higher education. In this way the student could become a more realistic picture of his/her sub-selection and what higher education studies can offer them. I remember very well from my high school age that actually the only contact with higher education was what the students at the university came to tell us about them at the end of the high school. A rather thin knowledge base to choose a future field. Of course, the second contact area is there if your parents happen to be in higher education professions. Of course, it would be desirable for students in upper secondary school to have a slightly more comprehensive picture of what higher education can offer them. Mr President! The mission of high school is to inspire learning. It should open up opportunities for each student to dream of and dream of a future down. High school is often about self-thinking and finding: what do I want to do when I grow up, what do I care about? When you come to high school, you do not need to know the answers to these questions. At its best, upper secondary school supports the fact that a high school student finds the answers to these questions himself, and this is the way towards the new high school is now on its way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u199	Mr President! With regard to the future law on upper secondary school, I would like to highlight three aspects: firstly, the broader role of the law as part of our education system, secondly, the general starting point of the secondary school law and, thirdly, the peace of work that must be guaranteed in upper secondary schools and that must be taken into account in the reading and timing of the law. From a broader perspective, let us start with the education system. Education policy should always aim for comprehensiveness. That is why the fundamental aspect of this law is the issue of the overall picture of the second stage. It is accompanied by a recent recommendation from the Economic Policy Evaluation Council that everyone should complete secondary education, with up to 15% of the population now not having a degree when looking at the age of 30. Of course, thinking is about extending compulsory education and the broad objective of flexible 12-year basic education, which would be a model for which I think it would be worthwhile to move anyway and which would also be in line with international thinking. Secondly, it is valuable in the High School Act that it recognizes the general nature of high school, which has been under regular pressure in recent years, just as Mr Mikkonen mentioned earlier. This emphasis on general education is the right way to respond to the needs of working life in the 2020s. The only thing we know for sure is that we do not know about the future, and that is actually the important information. The best way to prepare young people for the unknown is to ensure a broad range of knowledge and skills and to ensure that teachers have a peace of work to take into account different learners. Wide-ranging education is also the best antidote to online populism, fake news and other phenomena threatening social peace. Young people are becoming less and less aware of such broadcasts as the YLE or the journalism of traditional newspapers. Instead, they are becoming more and more aware of the world from their users and social media. In this way, the importance and importance of the educational base provided by the school will be further emphasised. In addition to the overall picture of the second level and general education, I am still addressing this issue of ensuring peace of work for high school teachers and students, and I am talking specifically about peace of work from the point of view of time use and teaching. A couple of weeks ago, OAJ published a report asking for the views and views of high school teachers on their own work. Teachers reported that they had increased the time they spent on the work during the past seven years, but that time had been added to everything except teaching, or to their own core work. This increase in the number of teachers and the time spent on the work is probably due to the fact that we have had many different administrative and other substantive changes. The new ops actually came into force in 2016, they were prepared for several years before that in a very inclusive process, and these learning materials are being prepared all the time. In addition, class and full-length games started last year. In fact, the electronic matriculation exams will only take effect next year in all subjects, and, at least on the basis of the feedback that comes to me, this electrification has not been a problem at all, and perhaps the most complex steps will still be ahead next spring. Now the bill is based on the fact that we should start preparing new opsis in accordance with this bill so that they may come into force in 2021, only five years after the previous curriculum reform. In committee it is probably worth considering whether that schedule is justified and how the reform will be carried out in such a way that the high school does not seem like a series of teachers and students, as it were, such as such renewal funnels, but a proactive education. Teachers and pupils must be assured of the peace of work and the impact of past changes must be assessed before new ones are made. That's the whole idea of this whole hour-a-hour-a-rounding thing: to get its effects and then to think about it. But these timetables are certainly issues that can be discussed. There's a lot of good in general. I appreciate this cooperation in higher education at the starting points of this law. I hope that it will also be made compulsory for universities. In addition to study guidance and this kind of general modernisation are definitely values that are worth raising here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u200	Mr President! Wise deeds come before riches. During its history, Finland has made major educational decisions that have proved to be a huge success. For example, extending compulsory education in 1921, and free school meals in 1948 have once been groundbreaking decisions. The decision-makers at the time were wise when they invested in education, even though there were certainly no too many resources. This tells us that we in Finland have been able to value education a hundred years ago and it is also understood that in the name of the common good, we must allow everyone to go to school on a full stomach. Now, in reforming the law on high school, decision-makers should be progressive, as our predecessors were. Since the reform of upper secondary school education has far-reaching implications, let us do it well at once. The aim of the reform is to ensure the widest possible level of general education and to offer high school students a good capacity for further studies. A good contribution to the reform is to make studies more flexible and to improve support for students and student guidance. We Finns have been talking for a long time about the importance of student guidance at different school levels for the study and future of young people. Young people who know for the first time in a high school door when they come in crystal clear, what they expect from their doctrines and futures, are few. The family background has a proven impact on education. The level of education is to some extent inherited. If parents have an academic background, it is more likely that offspring will be trained. Student guidance in upper secondary schools is the potion that makes all young people well on a map of future opportunities and school paths. It would also be good if young people were personally encouraged and encouraged in their educational choices. Mr President! Many youths are uncertain about their future, and in addition to guidance, professional encouragement may come in need. The post-treatment and guidance obligation is also a sensible reform. From the point of view of comfort, the conduct of studies and health, it is good that the reform pays attention to the responsibility of the education organiser to protect students from bullying, violence and harassment and to a safe learning environment. The course format of upper secondary schools and the large size of educational institutions pose their own challenges to the formation of community. The representative, Huhtasaari, brought the High School Federation’s concern about bullying at school, and I must say that unfortunately school bullying takes place even in day-care centres, it happens very much in primary schools, and also in upper secondary schools and vocational schools, so there must be strong tools to prevent bullying. In Finland, there has long been a trend that schools in sparsely populated areas are being driven down. The coverage of the upper secondary school network is very important for the protection of general education and for the equality of citizens. Therefore, in the context of the reform, the situation of small upper secondary schools in remote areas must not be made more difficult by means of new obligations. The admission test reform is a difficult whole. Of course, it is understandable that young people are wanted directly from upper secondary school to post-graduate studies, but the effects of the reform need to be considered more extensively. Poor high school success must not be an insurmountable obstacle to further education. One must remember the fact that in high school, the family situation has a strong impact on the everyday lives of students, since the majority live at home. In addition, some youths mature earlier than others, so to speak. Level differences between upper secondary schools also have an impact on the quality of teaching and the success of studies. Already at the moment a good high school success opens the gates for further studies and new students receive extra points for entrance exams, which help to get in. The matriculation examination must be possible new, but I think there should be a limited number of renewals. Mr President! We Finns and Mrs Savio and I in the Committee on Education and Culture attach great importance to the importance of mother tongue, and I would also like to send Minister Grahn-Laasonen the message that the matriculation examination will not reduce the proportion of mother tongue to one day in a trial situation. I have the impression that this is not the case, but that the test in the mother tongue should be held for two days, and it is a very good thing if that is the case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u201	Mr President! As Mrs Elomaa said earlier, one of the most important stones in Finland's success has long been equal access to education regardless of her background. This is a necessary reform of the secondary school law now before Parliament, and it contains many positive points, as has already become very clear during this debate, but perhaps a little more concrete is needed in some respects. Developing upper secondary school education to better meet today’s requirements is essential. It would also address the future challenges of working life. It has already been said here that it is very difficult for us to predict them, nobody knows them, but I would like to highlight, for example, self-initiative search for information and the capacity for lifelong learning. They are becoming increasingly important in the future, and these are also referred to in this bill. Mr President! This upper secondary school law also includes a record that a student in upper secondary school would be entitled to receive personal and other guidance related to applying for studies and further studies on a regular basis. It is therefore very positive that this personal curriculum is now recorded at the level of the law. And, as I said earlier in this debate, the Finns of Finland demand a cost-effective investment in student guidance already last autumn, when we presented our alternative budget here in Parliament, and I very much welcome this personal curriculum. Mr President! Congressman Elomaa just brought up the bullying. It is a very serious problem in our schools, unfortunately also in high schools. Of course, in primary schools the situation is even worse. This law obliges the organiser of upper secondary school education to take into account possible bullying, violence and harassment. However, the situation is that the practices of bullying are currently inadequate and, in my view, there is still a clear need for more concrete action in terms of means of intervention, even though there is indeed a mention in the law of tackling bullying and obliging it to do so. Prevention of bullying would, of course, be better than intervention only afterwards. Mr President! Just a few more words on this trial reform of university admissions that is under consideration. In this context, it is important to maintain the entrance exams as an important access point for universities and universities in the future. Of course, speeding up further studies and access to them after high school is an important goal, that is something we all share here, but we must also remember that at an older age the entrance exams offer a good opportunity to show motivation to study, if the matriculation examination has gone a little slower in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u202	President! The education system is a chain where everything affects everything more or less. It is highly unlikely that if there has been a great deal of adversity, failure, humiliation, and other negative things in early childhood education, it would be easy to catch up. Often the negative cycle starts early, unfortunately, and then again, if you succeed in high school, for example, you have often done good groundwork in the past. The world is changing, education needs to change with it. What we are talking about right now is between subjects, cooperation between subjects. In higher education, it is extremely important, even now and in the future, to govern interdisciplinaryism. More and more people are moving in the field of interdisciplinaryism, and this is where the role of upper secondary school is very important as a form of education. It is irresponsible to say that general education is not needed today to the extent that it used to be, because there is so much information and now Google gets everything. But it is in such a world of interdisciplinaryity, in a complex world, that understanding of this, that seemingly unrelated things are very important in a relationship, in interaction, is extremely important. I would also like to see the attention given to the physical condition of students in future high school, as well as to the management of the economy, or to the wider extent — as such, I do not like the word life - control — to such provision for coping with life’s everyday life. It is great to have records for special education and personal guidance, but this securing of resources is the core of a poodle, so that it is not just a letter that died in the law. Municipalities have to invest their own money in it, and where do teachers suddenly come from? That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u203	Mr President! This proposal and this debate have put a lot of emphasis on this general importance of high school, and that is an excellent thing. But I'm a little confused about this now, because at the same time we have these high school trials going on. I have two high school students myself. One is this kind of high school, which is an experimental school, and the other now wrote and has gone to high school according to this old ops. And the difference is pretty big. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister about this now, as Mr Torsti and Mr Eloranta raised this point earlier, when there are a lot of overlapping reforms going on here. There are plans that even though the ops have now entered into force in 2016, we might start preparing a new one soon, and I understand that these experiments are precisely because of the fact that something can be done to prepare this new ops. I think that this is going a little further than it is going in two different directions, given that these experiments have specifically increased a great deal of optionality and have weakened that generality. It would be interesting now to hear from the Minister what the views and timetables are now in this regard. But then from this performance itself: It is easy to agree with what has been said here, for example, regarding student guidance. This guidance in the joint phases is extremely important. It is important here after high school when you think about further studies, but it would actually be even more important there between primary and secondary school. I would also like to see a right of study guidance covering the corresponding joint phase, and a little like a change from primary to secondary school. Well then, of course, this, that special education and support can be received in upper secondary school, is extremely important. And what is extremely important is that it is recorded here that a safe learning environment is guaranteed for all students, i.e. protected from bullying, violence and harassment. It is important that this also happens in practice. Just as has been pointed out in many speeches, cooperation in higher education is important, and it must be ensured that it is possible everywhere in Finland, even if we are in a locality where there is no university or university nearby. In fact, with regard to this cooperation in higher education, I would like to raise the issue of vocational schools, because there is no such requirement for cooperation. It would also be important to consider how to make cooperation between universities and vocational schools compulsory, because, for example, there is a clear channel from vocational schools to universities of applied sciences, and this should be guaranteed. But all in all, as has been said, there is a lot of good here and it is hoped that the resources will also be sufficient to implement these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u204	Mr President! This has been delighted with the fact that high school law now allows for a peek into the university. But at the same time it also allows for a peek into working life and entrepreneurship. In this regard, the Minister hoped for some of these practical examples of the possibilities that this legislation opens up, and in fact I welcome the fact that it is now possible to have entrepreneurship education from there through basic education to secondary education and then to go on to higher education. Today is a very good opportunity to raise the issue of NY entrepreneurship, which is a package of this kind, perhaps because today our NY entrepreneurs have been present in Kamppi. We should have been there to support these young entrepreneurs, but we are here now to discuss this legislation. In other words, this NY programme is a ready-made cross-disciplinary package that would be easy to implement. This is a well-designed package, and I would like to see this move forward. One concern is: This NY package, the entrepreneurship education package, is in the same direction in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. In Sweden, there are 115 employees in the same organisation and the state support is EUR 2.4 million, we have 14 employees here in Finland and the state support is 230,000 — that is, a small amount of resources are made here in Finland. But let's do a very good job. I think that this legislative package is a very good whole, and I am delighted that we will be able to deal with it in that committee. What worries me too is this timetable for reform of the ops — this was raised by Mrs Torsti. This actually goes hand in hand with the fact that, in spring 2020, these criteria should be taken into account in the matriculation examination tests for 2003, but then, by the autumn of 2022 at the latest, the tests should be drawn up on the basis of two different curricula. In other words, I also think that it would be possible to consider at least a year’s extra time now for these things to be carried forward. But a really well-prepared entity that enables a new future high school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u205	Mr President! It's high school. I am really glad that Parliament has received a proposal for a new secondary school law. In the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we have already started to consult experts, and it can be said from this debate that this proposal has been widely supported across party boundaries. That's a great thing. Indeed, this presentation strengthens the attractiveness of upper secondary schools as a provider of education for higher education. This new upper secondary school highlights individual study paths, cross-disciplinary cooperation, internationality and cooperation with higher education institutions. This can also be seen as an opportunity to deepen cooperation with entrepreneurship and working life, as stated in the previous speech. First of all, I am very pleased that the government, in its spending limits, has allocated additional funding to implement the reform — about EUR 8.5 million. This is a good thing, and I have to say to this bill itself that the right things are now being done in the reform of high school. Moving from course-based to credits-based structure, new content-based implementations that have been expected and dreamt of in upper secondary schools will be made possible. Indeed, it is excellent that the obligation of upper secondary schools to support and guide students is also being increased. We've been waiting for this for a long time. We're on it now. And, indeed, when credits can be made up of more diverse study modules containing different subjects in the future, it will provide students with more choice and new opportunities for the matriculation examination to deepen the skills needed for further studies and working life. This is a really great change. It is really important and sensible to encourage students to build their own study paths and also to give the upper secondary school the possibility of applying itself in the implementation of the study modules. I myself think that high school is the foundation of civilization and the cradle of civilization. Now we are taking a big step forward. It is, of course, good to say, when this is a referral debate, that upper secondary school education will continue to be a three-year education which will be organised separately for young people and adults in the future. I am really happy about what I said here, but I would like to make it very clear here that there is more personal guidance for upper secondary school students, support for learning and, if necessary, special education. It is this personal support that is what young people need. It must be obtained when needed, and it will certainly improve your ability to cope in high school and increase your motivation to study, which will certainly also be reflected in your learning outcomes. I think the Minister of Education has said this, and here I am dating a little bit of the same words, that the goal is really not to lose the learning potential of any young person, no high school student, but also to get the support they need in learning. With this, the upper secondary school reform brings the upper secondary school to a new era and gives them new, multidisciplinary opportunities, interesting learning entities. So here's the leap of the future. Mr President! I would also like to say to this general debate, when much has been said about the fact that every young person should have the opportunity to study at least a secondary degree, that this secondary school law supports it. In particular, I welcome the decision of the spending limits committee that the government will make a proposal for secondary school students to receive a material supplement to be paid in connection with the study allowance. That's 46 euros. This is a major support for the fact that no high school student, no secondary student, would lose their studies because of financial problems in the family. We have been talking about this for a long time, and now we have taken this action. In that sense, I am delighted. I hope that the speeches now about artificially, mechanically stretched compulsory education will be dropped, because they, at least during Minister Kiuru's time, prevented any development and reform projects from progressing properly while this was being pursued. Now a good solution has been found when this material supplement comes. I would like to thank you in particular for that. This is a major leap in the equality of education. Special thanks to the Minister for Education and all the ministers who took this decision in the spending limits debate. I'll give you warm support for this high school reform. We will look carefully at this in the Committee on Education and Rural Development and see if there is any further need for change here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u206	Mr President! I would like to reply to Mrs Pilvi Torst that when she pointed out that not everyone who has completed a secondary degree is able to do so, it is not because compulsory education has not been added and extended, but because of other things. There is a long, long-term problem, for the issue of early childhood education, which we have just discussed, is starting the cycle of exclusion. I am convinced that when every level of education would be able to make peace to do its own basic task well, we would have far fewer drops in the later stages — that there would be no pitfalls so that students would not be allowed to pass away. This, as Mr Kivelä said, is a whole in which all these levels of education affect one another, and the whole education system is as strong as its weakest link. In Norway, as many as one third of young secondary students are school drop-outs, cannot obtain a degree. And that is because it is only at the very late stage of their basic education that it is far too late for that young person and these medicines are no longer helping. They were here last season to learn about our early intervention, what is meant by how well we are doing here in Finland. And as far as professional cooperation is concerned, which is very much the case here on the left side, there will be no change. It's going to go on just like it's been so far. Mr President, thank you very much. There was also talk of community and needed it on the high school side. It must be noted that on the basic education side, when new curricula were introduced in 2016, which also include phenomena-based learning, comprehensive learning modules, and all those there, both pupils and teachers, are very satisfied with this new curriculum. Their motivation to go to school has grown and increased, and school satisfaction has improved considerably. Next, when this reform comes to high school ops, there will be similar elements. And this entry into force is excellently timed, because if I calculated correctly — I calculated by my own arithmetic — then when this high school opsi comes into force, then they will be the first students to have attended new ops for secondary school. It is really good for students, because then that new learning will continue and there will be no interruptions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u207	Mr President! It is indeed the case, as Mr Vahasalo said, that, of course, at all stages of the educational path, we must be vigilant, and that is exactly the kind of reform we are now undertaking at different stages, while, at some point, this three-step support is actually being given to early childhood education. It's not here yet. However, with regard to this second stage, I would now recommend a close study of the annex drawn up by Etlan Hanna Virtanen and then by Professor Allan Seri and Professor Roope Uusitalo to this report by the Economic Policy Review Council, which has been specifically examined by age group, who does not complete the secondary degree and what has been their primary school performance and what are the explaining factors behind it. They are very diverse, and from there you cannot draw such conclusions that as if this helps or this does not. There are a number of factors that affect them, and this is what has led them to conclude that the most effective way would be to extend compulsory education and therefore also to introduce an obligation for the education provider to carry out good reforms there within the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u208	Then, first, Mr Vahasalo, then Mr Jarva.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u209	Mr President! This is precisely the case when the reasons for those drop-outs are very diverse. In the past, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs examined the whole problem of exclusion and came to this conclusion. The answer to this is not one medicine, it does not cover everything, it does not cure all the problems of exclusion, but it is necessary, with the exchange of monitoring systems, the personal guidance that this law now provides and gives to high school students. This solves much of this problem, not a mechanical increase in the age of compulsory education. They don't stay there at school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u210	Mr Jarva, the reply, and then Mr Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u211	Mr President! Indeed, there is this problem of exclusion, and we really do have young people coming out of primary school who should not even be allowed out with this kind of skill, but in the first classes and preschools they should tackle those problems, precisely the many problems they have with families in terms of livelihoods and various kinds of problems that are then reflected in children. These problems are already being reflected in small numbers, and this exclusion and inequality need to be addressed early there, not to allow them to enter the second stage and, in particular, to enter that phase of completion of primary school. This is why, for example, the centre has presented the school for young children as one model that has already been tried in part of Finland. OAJ has also proposed the introduction of flexible pre- and initial education in its own compulsory education model. There has also been support from elsewhere, and tomorrow, for example, we will be holding an event at the Citizens' Info Centre at 7 p.m., and we will also welcome others to take a look at this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u212	Mr President! On the very same subject, I thought briefly about taking a position. After all, we all want those who have graduated from basic education to be well equipped to continue in their lives, and we must accept that there may be a situation in that basic education that some of the students need more time to complete it. I think that we need to look at the school for young children and there we need to make it possible to move forward at a different time, that is to say, to have the strength to be able to study well: mathematics, the mother tongue and so on. At the same time, we must reject the idea of going through basic education according to the age group and go according to the fact that there is sufficient skills to move forward. Really, welcome to the small children's school seminar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u213	Reply Mr Mikkonen again, then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u214	Mr President! So I myself made it my concern that, now that it is a very good thing for high school students to be guaranteed this cooperation in higher education, I would like to see this included equally strongly in the law, because from there too the paths go to higher education. Then I would like to point out this, that when it came to the fact that high school education is really expensive and those textbooks cost, and now this proposal that student support comes to the second level of this kind of educational material supplement, is very welcome, but it 46 euros a month unfortunately does not cover those books when one course has more books to obtain. And perhaps this way of doing so will also make us at the mercy of these publishers and will always have new books and higher prices. If we had some other way to guarantee that we would be free of charge, then perhaps we would also have more means available, better use of digital material and otherwise. It might be possible to consider how other routes could be made available for that free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u215	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u216	Mr President! Mrs Parviainen pointed out the entrepreneurship path in the past, and in this context, for example, the entrepreneurship line of the upper secondary school in my home town, Ylöjärvi, has received a great deal of praise from both students and companies. Hopefully, such positive practices for working life and entrepreneurship will also spread to other countries in upper secondary school education. In this context, thank you to the Minister for the entrepreneurship-oriented special school which Ylöjärvi High School received recently. Mr President! I would like to return a little bit to this cooperation between the schools and the upper secondary school and the business community. It is, of course, mentioned at this section level in this bill, yet I still wonder a little bit about whether the actual conditions for upper secondary schools in small localities are still in line with, for example, the large upper secondary schools in large higher education cities. It must be clear to everyone that there are clearly more partners and opportunities for cooperation in large cities. In the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, there is a need for further reflection on this matter. Mr President! I will also return to this study guidance, which I have already thanked. Effective guidance will certainly reduce the costs for society of dropping out and delaying studies, and these human benefits must of course also be borne in mind. But, as has just been said, it also requires additional resources to achieve this objective and must not be left to the municipalities alone. The entry in the Government Programme also requires that the new statutory tasks or the resulting costs be fully reimbursed to the municipalities. Of course, the government's proposal has mentioned these costs, but unfortunately, at least the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has at times received the message that the costs incurred by municipalities for other legislative proposals have sometimes been clearly estimated at the lower level. It is therefore also important in the Committee on Education to examine whether these government calculations are realistic about the costs for municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u217	Madam President! I would like to pick up on what Mr Savio said, namely the idea that, now that you are going through the law on high school in committee, it might also be useful to think further about how we can get upper secondary school activities to cooperate over time and build networks beyond municipal boundaries. Even though cooperation between higher education institutions is being carried out, there would certainly be a lot of synergies to be found in cooperation structures between secondary schools. For example, when courses are offered on a regional basis in a specific way, it might be justified to have more access to other upper secondary schools to carry them out in their own upper secondary school. Of course, some of this is done. In particular, when it comes to governance levels, I myself have come across a phenomenon in municipal policy where the upper secondary school of my municipality is seen not as a question of education policy, but as a kind of identity issue, and this may lead to conflicts when we start building cooperation, for example, in a regional or regional context. In vocational education, regional and sub-regional cooperation is already taking place in quite a number of different places in Finland, and I would welcome that in the future, when the economic situation of municipalities is hardly going to improve dramatically, especially when the social and regional reform comes on top of this, we might consider ways to encourage supranational cooperation in upper secondary schools. I am not proposing the transfer of secondary schools to rural areas, nor am I proposing that we necessarily force upper secondary schools to do something — that is not a good way — and the minister must also know that it is not an easy way either — but I am looking for positive ways to encourage cooperation between municipalities, because at the moment the situation may also be that the municipality x is quitting high school here, but at the same time the municipality y is building high school right next door. That's how I've been able to prove it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u218	Reply, Mr Jarva, 1 minute. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u219	Mr President! I will take the floor of the previous speaker in the sense that this is exactly what should be promoted in order to be able to do from other upper secondary schools, where, for example, specialises in certain themes and where there is a wider range of offers or specialised teachers, studies at a distance. In fact, this is what we have been doing in Kainuu for a long time. I myself have graduated from a so-called distance school — that is, a normal high school, but we have also completed studies there from colleges and other upper secondary schools. And during the experiment of Kainuu the Philial High School was also established. In other words, rare languages could be studied and groups formed between different upper secondary schools in this way. Although the provincial upper secondary school has ceased to exist — it has returned to the municipalities, and that is good — we will continue this pedagogical cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u220	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u221	Mr President! One thing that has got very little attention today in this debate about high school law is exercise. I am also very concerned about the well-being of high school students with regard to physical activity. We know that the price of immobility is increasing, talking about billions. The condition of a young person in high school is not good, and that is where the collapse occurs at the age of 15 to 16, and even in high school there should be more of that exercise and inspire it to exercise. When we talk about loneliness and exclusion, physical activity is one thing that could help, and I would like the Minister to make a strong contribution to this message as well and to get some more exercise to that high school because it is the key to well-being in many areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u222	Then the Minister's answer, no more than three minutes from that place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u223	Mr President! Thank you for your warm support for the high school reform. I believe that it will also warm up in that field, that Parliament strongly supports the reform of high school and these good advances that can now be made with this law. After all, upper secondary school has been strongly on the development agenda during this Government term already before, for example, the permits for special assignments in upper secondary schools were renewed and granted and the related legislation has been developed. The next step is then the development of the matriculation examination, and experiments and innovative solutions have already been developed both pedagogically and structurally along the way. Of course, these experiments will, as is the case, be made impact assessments, how they have succeeded, what good it will be to learn from them for future steps. There have been concerns about how the timetable for the reform of the curricula is going. Perhaps I could answer this more broadly by thinking that in the future, even more could be done in a direction which, instead of reforming curricula around once every ten years in a large volume as a major reform, could move in the direction of developing curricula more on the basis of such continuous development. That development work is, of course, everyday in schools, and it is a wonderful job. Of course, it is important in this reform to ensure a successful and strong support for the implementation and implementation of the reform. It is now possible for us to gather a lot of good experiences from the reform of vocational education and training where there is a broad support programme to implement it. During this government, the Finnish education system will be completely reformed as the actions of this government. Significant reforms are being undertaken throughout the education and training chain. Today we have had the opportunity to discuss the reform of the early childhood education law and the good work done there to ensure equal early childhood education, quality early childhood education and to build on the future. Similarly, the reform of vocational education and training has already been put into effect since the beginning of this year, and this is what is being done around the world here in Finland to marvel at the quality of advanced and flexible vocational education and training in Finland. Then the big curriculum reforms in basic education, the development of teacher education at all levels of education, tutor models and so on, and now this high school reform today. The Government has already taken action with universities to reform higher education. Increasing cooperation there, raising the level of education, creating structures for continuous learning, and this reform of continuous learning will be the next step to be taken during this government term. We don't run out of work, but big steps are taken. Just a few more... — Well, time is running out, which means that it may be possible for us to continue our debate in a later period, but I thank you all once again for giving strong support and also for contributing to it. And perhaps the last thing is this well-being. Moving is important, and I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u224	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u225	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! After all, this bill is closely linked to the Act on Transport Services of 2017 and the reform which amended the regulation of taxi services, inter alia by facilitating access to a licence for taxis and liberalising pricing in the sector. The opposition raised issues such as the problems that the reform could pose for competition and regional service provision. As a result of the reform, a reduction in the car tax on taxis will now have to be abolished, as it would be difficult for the new system to adequately limit the reduction. In this situation, reform can be considered appropriate. However, there are certain risks. The preparation has shown that the removal of the discount may slow down the renewal of the taxi fleet. This is problematic for achieving national climate and energy targets. Newer cars put less pressure on the environment. In the future, it would be advisable to monitor the extent to which the abolition of the car tax reduction affects the taxi fleet and its emissions. The abolition of the tax reduction may also further exacerbate the regional inequality created by the taxi reform. The impact of the reform on equality should therefore also be monitored and action taken where necessary. When this government proposal was discussed, there was a slight contradiction between the deliberations of the Committee on Transport and Communications and the tax section of the Committee on Finance, in that the Committee on Transport did not consult the Invalidity, which, in turn, belonged to the Tax Section and expressed strong concerns about the future of wheelchair transport. However, on the other hand, the Committee on Transport and Tourism had a strong will to ensure the accessibility of Kela transport throughout Finland, which was not so much the subject of consideration by the Tax Section, as the report shows. Therefore, from the point of view of ensuring the provision of regional transport services on wheelchairs, the proposal from the Committee on Transport and Communications that small, accessible vehicles should be included in the category of exempt vehicles is justified. This amendment to the Government proposal will also ensure that the jobs related to the equipment of these vehicles are maintained in Finland. On the other hand, the Invalidity Federation, among others, has expressed serious concern that the reform would reduce the availability of services for better service levels. These services are necessary for the safety and health of many wheelchair users. It is therefore essential to ensure that these specific needs are adequately taken into account even after the reform and that any shortcomings are rectified immediately. When weighing this matter, I happened to be riding a taxi in two wheelchairs today, and I was a little surprised that the driver was quite positive about extending this tax advantage to these lighter Caddy-class cars. He thinks it is smart that these transports also use more agile and less emission-efficient and, of course, cheaper means of transport. At the same time, however, it must be remembered that their comfort in travelling has received a lot of reproach from wheelchair customers, especially on the cobbled streets of the city centers. He then paused to consider how the necessary services for wheelchair customers will turn out in the future, and in this regard our second effort in particular is particularly necessary. We therefore propose that two statements be adopted. The first statement: ‘The government requires the Government to monitortheimpact of the reform on the fleet of vehicles before all national climate and energy objectives, employment, social andregional And the second statement: ‘The Commission requires the Government to ensure that the reform affects the safety and health of the wheelchair users and, These statements have been signed by representatives of the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Swedish People's Party in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u226	Mr President! I support the statements just made by Mrs Haraka as they were made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u227	Madam President! With the legislative reforms in transport, the taxi sector will change dramatically during this summer. In the future, licence requirements and licensing procedures for taxi services have been reduced. Operational obligations have been reduced, place regulation abolished and on-call obligations removed. In addition, it is allowed to use more diverse vehicle fleets in taxi transport. The Government's proposal proposes a phasing-out of the current €4800 car tax on taxis by July 2022. The presentation has received even a lot of criticism in the expert consultation. The abolition of the current car tax subsidy has been feared to increase the distance between vehicles used in taxis and to increase imports of second-hand vehicles from abroad. As a result, there is a fear of an increase in the average age of vehicles, an increase in emissions and a deterioration in road safety. In addition, the abolition of tax subsidies undermines the profitability of business and may thereby reduce the availability of services. Mr President! I am concerned about the availability of taxi services in rural areas. This concern was also raised widely in committee. The good thing about this proposal is that the tax exemption for previously ordered goods will also be extended to the so-called 1+6-seat taxis. These Caddy-class taxis can also accommodate wheelchairs if necessary. A wide range of equipment and, as a result, a wide range of services are of benefit, especially in rural areas. In rural areas, the volume of transport is lower and access to unhindered equipment may be a challenge. More options are good to make business more profitable. A smaller car is also cheaper in terms of operating costs and more economically sensible. Mr President! From a taxi industry point of view, change is a big leap into the unknown. There are so many uncertainties that monitoring and early intervention are particularly important. The Finnish Parliament Group proposes the following three statements: ‘1. Parliament requires the Government to monitor the impact of the proposal on the taxi fleet in terms of both travel safety for ordinary passenger and invalid traffic and, if necessary, to take corrective action. 2. Parliament requires the Government to monitor the impact of the proposal on the change in the fleet of taxis, in particular where there are reflections of large CO2 emissions. In other words, it is necessary to monitor the adequacy and quantity of the vehicle fleet in relation to transport needs. 3. The Parliament requires the Government, together with the rest of the cab reform, to monitor the impact of the proposal on Kela transport, school transport and other public transport, and to take prompt action to address any identified problems in the transport services of citizens.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u228	Madam President! What are we talking about today? After all, this proposal is based on law number one on transport services, which now comes into force on the will of the government parties from the beginning of next July. Future taxi services will no longer be subject to authorisation, obligations will be reduced, and taxi services will also be allowed to use more diverse vehicle fleets. Because of this reform, we are in a position to phase out the reduction in car tax on part of the taxis. In this situation, reform can be considered appropriate, although it also involves its own risks. The Committee on Transport and Communications issued an opinion on this draft law, which shows serious criticism of the threat of increased average age of vehicles, increased emissions, reduced road safety, the profitability of taxi operations and, consequently, the wide availability of services. In our own opinion, we also raised the challenge of access to accessible equipment in the future and proposed that the Committee on Finance, as a committee of reports, include 1+6 passenger vehicles in car-free vehicles, in contrast to the original government bill. At this second reading, I would now like to thank you very much for respecting this objective and hope in the state funds. This is particularly important in sparsely populated areas and has an environmental role to play in the local economy and also in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u229	Madam President! From the beginning of July, a law on transport services is coming into force, reducing the regulatory burden on the provision of road transport services and reducing the administrative burden on operators. The Transport Services Act will also substantially change our existing taxi system based on quotas and car-specific permits, even though professional taxi traffic remains subject to authorisation. The main point is that quotas restricting the number of taxi licences will disappear and the car-specific licence will become operator-specific. The current tax subsidies for taxis have been justified, inter alia, by restrictions resulting from the regulation of the sector, such as the place of employment and driving obligations restricting the freedom of business of licensed taxis. As these criteria are removed by the Transport Services Act, the review of tax subsidies is timely and justified. The government's proposal and the committee's report propose the phasing out of tax subsidies for ordinary taxis so that it will be fully in force from 2023. The committee's report, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Communications, stressed that this could be done, but now it is quite right to propose a continuation of the tax exemption for unhindered taxis and school taxis. The aim of the tax exemption is therefore to ensure the mobility of special groups and the transport paid for by society, especially in sparsely populated areas. The tax exemption applies to so-called large unhindered space and school taxis, which have been approved to carry at least seven passengers in addition. One or more of these may be persons travelling in wheelchairs. The restriction is the same as last in the 2015 amendment, where the so-called small unhindered 1+6 taxis were classified in the same category as ordinary taxis in relation to the tax advantage. They therefore had a maximum tax subsidy of EUR 4800 when the tax subsidy for large unimpeded persons was increased to EUR 15000, and the committee was in favour of this line at the time. The Committee on Transport and Communications unanimously saw the importance of including small unhindered cars for taxis in the category of duty-free vehicles. The reason is that the abolition of tax subsidies would probably reduce the availability of so-called Caddy vehicles for unhindered transport. This is because the resale price of these cars is lower than that of ordinary taxis. Therefore, their life-cycle costs are also higher than normal taxis. So, in very good cooperation, we achieved this change in the tax subsidies for taxis and school transport equipment. Mr President! Mr Jari, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Ronkainen made his own group's ponies here in three parts. In fact, I could almost agree with one of them, that is to say the middle one, which drew attention to the high level of CO2 emissions and whether the vehicles that travel on our roads in the future are appropriate in terms of volume and size in relation to the need for transport. In my view, it is necessary to monitor how our taxi fleet develops in the future, as competition itself becomes very wide open — and what, in principle, is a taxi in the future? We will certainly follow up with the statements on transport services. I think that Mr Ronkainen's statement 2 was quite appropriate, and I hope that Parliament will at least give a broad assessment of this and consider the impact of CO2 emissions from these cars on our taxi fleet in terms of transport services. [President PaulaRisikko : I beg your pardon,as the representative : were they intended to support them? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u233	Madam President! Indeed, this draft law is now addressing these car tax reductions, which will be phased out, and in this proposal it is proposed that large unhindered orders for one or more wheelchairs and for school transport taxis be totally exempt from car tax and, at the same time, the tax exemption for invataks will be abolished. The Greens are concerned, however, like the Invalids Association, that these one-wheelchair taxis, such as such Caddy-class vehicles, do not meet the requirements of wheelchair seated travel safety and health. In addition, for taxis of seven passenger seats with only one wheelchair space, safety criteria are not met and in such cases these vehicles cannot be counted as unimpeded taxis and therefore their tax advantage is not justified. This is why we propose an amendment to Article 28(3), which amends Article 28(3) to include ‘a person travelling in a wheelchair’for at least seven passengers,as opposed to six in the base proposal and two or more in the wheelchair’. And this is so that we can make sure that people in wheelchairs have a safe taxi ride, and this departure from the tax advantage from these smaller cars would be a stronger incentive to buy cars that are better suited to wheelchair passengers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u234	For Mr Mikkonen's information, unfortunately, these proposals cannot be made at second reading. They should have been done at first reading. But they were recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u235	Mr President! This is a reform of the car tax law for taxis, and I would draw particular attention to the definition of accessible vehicles and to this category of Caddy. I welcome the unanimous decision of the Committee on Transport and Tourism to extend the concept of an accessible vehicle to include the so-called Caddy category, that is smaller vehicles. So it's a smaller car than a truck. In practice, these big Invaks are trucks and there are two wheelchair people, while the Caddy class can accommodate one wheelchair on board. It is clear that when one person is transported, it makes more sense to drive this person by a smaller car than by a lorry or a large car, which then mainly carries empty space. That is why the Committee on Transport and Tourism came to this conclusion, and it is good that the Committee on Finance took this into account in its report. It is clear that this is also an environmental issue that you would think would be of interest to the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u236	Mr President! In this context, the chairman of the committee deserves to thank the members of the committee and also the members of the Committee on Finance and the report. This reflects the fact that, as a committee of opinions, when we unanimously reached a solution with changes to the government's proposal, our statement, through expertise, was accepted in practice. In other words, this point deserves to be congratulated both on the report committee and on its own committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u237	Mr President! I support all the statements made by Mr Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u238	Madam President! An interesting debate has now taken place here on this proposal from the Committee on Finance. It is a car tax change that these unhindered 1+6 taxis would be included in this car tax exemption or rebate. We've been talking about trucks and cars, and it's very nice to get the concept mixed up. Well, that probably fits the nature of this conversation. However, we all understand in principle, hopefully at least what this is about. Fortunately, the members of the Committee on Finance understood the need for this issue, i.e. these unhindered 1+6 taxis would be included in this tax exemption in order to provide services for disabled people and to be able to provide services throughout Finland, urban areas and rural areas, to provide these good and high-quality transports. I am particularly surprised by this view that this 1+6 car is somehow an unsafe car. It's a surveyed car, made in Finland, it's all four-point seat belts for all passengers, a wheelchair for disabled people is attached to that car. It is a curious view that if this same wheelchair is then put in a car with two seats, it becomes safe for two wheelchair seats instead of one wheelchair. This can’t be — if you’re familiar with the matter and the business — from anywhere. That skilfully confused the concepts. I very much welcome the fact that the Committee on Finance, and in particular the Tax Section, understood the importance of this issue and changed this tax exemption in such a way that it applies to unhindered 1+6 cars. This will enable all disabled people, all those who need these services, to be transported in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u239	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 7/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The report is presented by Mr Jalonen, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u240	Mr President! Indeed, the driving licence law is under discussion, and this has spoken to me enough to allow me to come briefly to present this. The driving licence law has therefore been reformed to ensure that the price of the card has been considered high among the public, and it has been sought to intervene as far as possible in such a way as to maintain safety. This has, of course, given rise to debate, both within the committee and outside the committee. I will briefly go over these arguments from our committee and it is, in fact, largely summed up in this beginning: ‘The committee welcomes the fact that the regulation of driving licences is being clarified and taken into account transport safety requirements. In this way, the reform will bring about the deregulation of the government. However, the committee notes that the driving licence system is still complex and difficult to understand. The committee therefore considers that further clarification of the driving licence system should be pursued and, if necessary, the overall reform should be prepared.’ So it sums up quite a lot of the reflection that we have been through. One of the topics of discussion that has been discussed and discussed is the basic premise that when the number of driving hours and theoretical hours is almost completely reduced from driving a driving licence, then, on the other hand, when a person first comes on his own vehicle to transport, which requires a driving licence, he is given four theoretical hours of the first driving licence. The content of these four theoretical lessons was discussed as to whether it should also emphasise practical driving, i.e. it would also be an alternative to driving hours instead of just theory, and this debate was taking place, particularly with regard to the moped card. Another big conversation was driving on a teaching licence and adding a brake pedal to the teaching vehicle, i.e. how the whole remains so diverse that the student has the widest possible experience of different cars, and how to turn the whole around so that it does not raise the price again. So this was one of the topics of discussion. Other topics for discussion are, above all, this adequacy and availability of professional drivers in Finland in the future. This has not only been raised in this context, but also in many other contexts. In this respect, this training of the Defence Forces has been raised in the context of the Transport Services Act, for example, and solutions are then awaited in Phase 3. The categories of driving licences over the top are letters on the card, which may not open up to everyone as it stands, that which it allows to drive and what it does not. Perhaps one of the most confusing categories of vehicles for which the cards are being driven is that category of tractor, and in order to clarify the matter, we made a fairly long opening point in our report, which, after reading, will give you this type of wire version of what is being driven and what is. I recommend you read, it opens your eyes and your thoughts. In the same context, it was noted that although in a professional sense tractors can be a competitive factor on the truck side, it is quite absurd in the agricultural sense to require a combination card from Finnish agriculture where E is behind it. When this reflection was discussed, it was decided to remove the E requirement, but at the same time knowing that this whole thing must be kept under control so that it does not cause problems for society. And that is why we have a proposal for a statement: ‘The Council of State calls for the implementation of the reform of driving licences,in particular as regards road safety and equal In addition, these topics are mopeds and motorcycles, two-wheel driving, and whether or not we have the so-called Suomi supplement here. The issue was studied and these are in line with EU requirements. There would have been a small chance of change, but it would have done so again that the driving licence would not necessarily have been able to cross the country, so this situation, which was here, made more sense in its entirety. And it is emphasised that no more Finland supplements can be done like this than the EU demands. Driving licences always require that you be in such a state of health that it is not dangerous for others, for yourself or for those on board. This can be a challenge in a future society when people get older and people want to keep driving licences longer. At this point in society, when these information systems are widely changed, we saw the possibility that they will be built right from the start in such a way that there is no need for a doctor to be crippled on account of his driving licence when he has just been there because of the flu. In other words, there the system can indicate that now begins the driving licence health check to be close to that whether it would be able to look at this at the same time, i.e. there is this kind of practical relief for information systems. On the other hand, if a person has substance abuse problems, mixed-use problems, drug abuse problems and so on, then it would also be directly known there, so that the card may not necessarily be granted directly if it is assumed that there is a risk of endangering traffic. There are many major changes here, and in general, changes always require that their effects be monitored and then possible problems can be identified and corrected. This leads to a second proposal for a statement, which reads as follows: ‘The Government shall submit to the Committee on Transport and Communications the changes proposed in the follow-up study and their effects,in particular in view of the impact So we went through this quite thoroughly, critically over the government-opposition front, and the result is a good, unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u241	Madam President! The aim of the driving licence law is to calculate the price of a driving licence, to reduce the availability of a driving licence and the means of obtaining it, to say, or at least to relax the interpretation of the law through the dismantling of standards and deregulation in so far as training requirements are to be relaxed. Minimum hours for driving and theoretical instruction are and will continue to be required for the completion of both a moped card and a B-category driving licence and all other driving licences. The driver's degree will be tightened and the qualification level raised. It is clear that the legislation on driving licences, which has been presented and which is now being adopted by Parliament, is still quite complex and there is certainly a great need for overall reform. But it must be noted that we are also dependent on the legislation and joint approval of the European Union insofar as our driving licence is suitable and valid on the roads of other European countries and vice versa when European licence holders come to Finland to drive you. In other words, of course, this dependency must, in many respects, continue to be maintained, but we in the committee still saw that the legislation on driving licences should be developed in a simpler way, and in that respect we said. There was also an attempt to remove the Finland allowances, which have been included in the driving licence legislation over the years. It should be noted that a four-hour theoretical teaching on the basics of traffic and the driver of a motorised vehicle is always required for the performance of the first driving licence. It concerns the situation when the first card would or could be as a tractor, moped or car card. The committee also dealt with teaching with a driving licence. According to the Government’s proposal, a teacher’s examination is no longer required to obtain a teaching licence, and the pedagogical conditions of the holder of a teaching licence are therefore not further specified at the legal level. A brake pedal is still required for the teaching car, which was the subject of a wide range of discussions prior to the government's proposal. So we need a brake pedal in place, but the test requirement is removed, which means that the test has to be removed. Mr President! The committee also presented an amendment to the driving licence requirements of the tractor. A Class E combination card shall not be required when driving a combination of a tractor and a trailer in the case of a tractor with a design speed exceeding 60 km/h. There is concern, in particular, that this may lead to distortions of competition, particularly as regards the transport of soil materials, but we in the committee considered it important that the law should be monitored and measures taken in the event of changes leading to market failures. That is why the committee made a statement. With regard to health information, the Government's proposal proposed that, when applying for the first category of driving licence, the medical opinion be replaced by a declaration from the applicant for the licence that the health requirements have been met. This will contribute to reducing the burden on the health service system. According to the second reform, a doctor’s opinion is in practice only required for a person aged about 75 if the driving licence has been renewed before 70 years of age for five years. It was considered important that the information flow and information systems between the doctor and the police should be improved and developed in order to facilitate the identification of traffic risks. In other words, the system for the transmission and use of health data does not really exist yet, and there is, of course, a desire for clarification and change in this respect. Mr President! The committee had a rather lengthy discussion on training requirements, in particular on the implementation of risk training, i.e. slippery weather and dark driving. It is necessary to learn to recognise the characteristics and risks associated with driving in the dark and slippery, such as the influence of road surfaces on vehicle management. At the level of the law, we considered it important that attention be paid to this risk training, how it is carried out, how much it is carried out and where it is carried out. There was a wide-ranging debate on this. As far as the moped card is concerned, there were many kinds of twists. The driving licence shall include a theoretical test and a driving test when a category B driving licence is carried out but, in the case of a moped card, a simple examination is sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u242	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say that I have some reservations about what this amendment to the driving licence law will eventually bring. We have therefore produced a unanimous report in committee, but this report, which has been well presented in the two previous speeches, contains several concerns, such as the complexity and lack of clarity of the driving licence system. I am particularly concerned about the issue of road safety in committee as a result of this change. We also called for equal conditions of competition in the future and for a follow-up study on the impact of the proposed changes on logistics, professional drivers and road safety. The consultation in committee work was quite extensive and, at times, there were heavy assessments and criticisms of transport safety in the future. Fortunately, the committee then called in its report for the system of driving licences to be clarified and, if necessary, for an overall reform. I would now like to believe that these possible remedies will then, if necessary, be taken in the future by the new governments. On the other hand, I would also like to say out loud that, especially when you think about committee work in connection with this reform of the driving licence law, I find myself thinking on a number of occasions about what the legislator is finally prepared to do in a spirit of deregulation, because I myself think — and I dare to think that all the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications also think — that standards should not be dismantled in such a way that road safety suffers, at the expense of road safety. When we are very honest with ourselves, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u243	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the driving licence law now, after the committee's amendments, seems to be quite good — not too good. However, the aim here is to clarify the regulation of driving licences and, for example, to push down the purchase price of driving licences. As we saw during the work of the committee, even after this reform, the categories of driving licences are certainly not clear. With which card you can draw a trailer and with what weights, no one can find out. This requires an overall reform in which the whole card jungle must be cleaned through. That is what the committee took a stand on in its report. The committee also makes two good statements in its report, one of which requires the Government to monitor the implementation of road safety and to deal with possible distortions of competition. This refers to the fact that the category of tractor will no longer need an E-class card when the trailer is to be drawn, and there is a risk that the transport of land will be of interest to tractormen. The second statement requires the Government to commission and submit a follow-up study to the committee in order to assess the implementation of the changes and their impact. Here, too, reference is made to road safety effects, logistics and, among other things, the adequacy of professional drivers. Mr President! The most important amendment to this legislative package was already made in December, when Article 61 was discussed separately. ‘External driving licence’. At the time, the unanimous decision of the committee concluded that the cards of citizens from outside the EU and the EEA would not allow heavy goods vehicles or combinations of vehicles to be carried in Finland in the future. This was used to close the gate to the gray economy. This change was meant to serve Finnish tourism, and the Chinese do not come here on holiday to drive combinations. They'll be allowed to drive a passenger car and a snowmobile in the future. All in all, as I said, this is a good thing and, in view of the statements, we can move forward with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u244	Madam President! This reform of the driving licence law is part of the government's deregulation and, in that sense, a very successful package of this kind. The aim was to simplify the purchase of a driving licence and to reduce the price of its purchase. The number of teaching, both theoretical and driving, is reduced. This will reduce the costs of a driving school student, however, by raising the standard of driver's qualifications, which will, however, make learning more important, so that the driving student will have to learn more in engineering driving than has been the case up to now. The card process is further simplified, for example with regard to the B card, so that the basic driving licence is one step when it is currently two steps. The committee paid particular attention to this and, for its part, wanted to ensure that this one-step teaching and diploma includes a safety component and also an experience of difficult traffic conditions, and that will be the case in the future. The acquisition of all these new driving licences is marked by the fact that all are required at the beginning of four hours of theoretical instruction, which will then be carried there later. So if, for example, four hours of the theory has been studied when purchasing a moped card, then the same doctrines will no longer need to be read when driving a car. Originally, it was the idea that the moped card would have a driving test in the future, but in the future, as has been the case at present, it will be enough to get a moped card. These statements have already been taken into account here, and they are necessary. In particular, it is necessary to monitor these tractor transport operations and the possible impact of their change on the competitive situation. The committee also stated that this system of driving licences, particularly for these tractor cards, is so complex that no one really wants to memorize how the letters and the various combinations go. Both statements also stressed road safety, which came up in a large number of expert opinions, and that is also my own concern on this issue. Driver condition is currently the greatest road safety risk, and we must not take action here to increase the number of drivers in worse health. This means substance abuse, alcohol and drugs, and the mental health of the driver. Access to information on these issues must be improved absolutely between our social and health systems and the police, as at present there is no information on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u245	Madam President! We must welcome this government proposal, which has now received a report from the committee. It is great that we are taking measures that reduce the price of driving licences, make it easier to obtain a driving licence and also provide more alternatives to the way in which driving is carried out. It is also very positive that the classification of tractors for driving licences is being changed because it has so far been extremely complex. Here we are going to abandon the so-called transport tractor category, but there will still be some difficult details of interpretation on this side of the tractor. I refer to section 4 of the committee's detailed explanatory memorandum, the categories of driving licences which state that driving a tractor still requires a driving licence if its structural speed exceeds 60 km/h. A category B driving licence shall be required if the total mass of the tractor does not exceed 3500 kg and the licence of the lorry if the total mass exceeds 3500 kg. The right to drive a category C1 lorry is sufficient if the total mass of the tractor exceeds 3500 kg but not 7500 kg and otherwise a category C lorry would be required. Of course, the essential thing is that the speed does not exceed 60 kilometers per hour. For example, the domestic tractor Valtra A94, which is only three-cylinder, 3.3-litre, already weighs 3500 kg. It is a 94 horsepower tractor, and it is very rare in today's tractor sales to buy tractors of this size. But what is essential is that 60 km, because the speed of their tractors does not usually exceed that 60. But we must clarify this in the future, because it seems a little bit that the Committee may not have given attention to what these modern-day tractors are like.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u249	Mr President! It is precisely the line of simplifying the legislation on driving licences that is right. We have too complicated legislation, we still have too complicated driving licences, we still have too many driving licences, and we must continue to do that. I am also referring to tractors in agriculture. Mrs Hautala spoke in such detail that I refer to her speech, and I fully agree with that. This also requires clarification in the same way as the whole issue of driving licences, but it is nice and pleasant to note that the modern system has been taken into account and such an old-fashioned, rigid system has been thrown into a scrap heap in this report. The committee has been on the right track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u250	Madam President! The purpose of this proposal is indeed to clarify the system of driving licences in Finland, and it will certainly happen in some parts, but as this debate already shows, the current Finnish system is rigid and difficult to interpret, and that is why it is important to clarify it. This section of the tractor card, which Mrs Hautala rightly described, is a good indication that it has achieved clearer practice, but it could also be changed. But generally speaking, I think that this idea of driving licences should go in such a way that if you have the right to drive a larger car, a heavier vehicle, then you can also drive a lighter vehicle without separate training under it. For example, a lumber truck driver cannot drive a bus, which I find amazing because it is a lot easier to transport a bus than it is to carry a lumber truck. This type of clarification should be done in Finland in the future in this renewal of driving licences, and these categories of driving licences would probably still have the same standard description. It is also important for this reform to take account of ensuring the availability of professional drivers, and the training provided by the Defence Forces should be made better use of. Since day by day and at least in the future the availability of these professional drivers is more challenging and difficult, this would be a good thing to take advantage of. However, the Defence Forces provide top-notch training, and I believe that any young person who goes through that training and passes it will be quite qualified to go into that category of transport as a professional driver, and that's what a trucker's career will be able to start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u251	Mr President! The purpose of this law has been to clarify and streamline the regulation of driving licences. Mr Pakkanen spoke well before me that we have a rather complex system of cards, and certainly that clarification is needed. For example, it is the idea that if you have completed a card that entitles you to carry heavier equipment and then the same card does not apply to that lighter equipment that is somewhat contradictory. I do have concerns about reducing certain standards in relation to safety. I have just had a fresh experience of one driver's licence being taught at home, and, for example, this does not require a driving instructor's test, but I do think it is a bad solution in terms of road safety. We know that a parent usually teaches his child how to drive, and his own driving licence must have been between 20 and 30 years. There has been quite a lot of time in that area for different transport regulations and traffic laws and rules to change in that period. Although the youth is doing the theory test, I would consider it entirely justified that the teacher also took the test before receiving a teaching permit. It is a good thing that this brake pedal stays there, because that is something that is sometimes needed. Also, not all cars that teach are of the type that necessarily slow it down so quickly, which is, in actual fact, that with safety in mind, it is all right for the teacher to have his own brake pedal. This is where the test requirement is reduced, but it is good that the pedal remains. Then perhaps with regard to these recent experiences, the point is that it would be possible for a 16-year-old to start teaching here. However, when the age of a driving licence is maintained in 18 years, which I think is quite justified, I just wonder that two years is a really long time, and that must give a young person quite the temptation to drive that car on his own. That I don't know... As such, of course, two years of driving hours may well accumulate, but on the other hand, when we know that such a closer teaching period is more justified from the point of view of learning, I wonder little why this training of a driving licence at the age of 16 would be started if, at the age of 18, the experiment could only be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u252	Madam President! Representative Mikkonen was just thinking recently about this difference between starting driving education at the age of 16 and the age of completing a degree. It has been seen that it is necessary to leave the personal level of driving, i.e. minimum levels of driving instruction and theory have been defined at the level of the law, but then everyone personally has to see how much of that training is needed, some a little more and others a little less. So let's go on this kind of personal path, which then leads to the completion of the driving licence degree, whose criteria have been raised. That is why it is necessary, at least for those who need a little more training than for just a few months, to get that driving lesson a little earlier. Mr President! The driving licence legislation that has now been adopted is indeed breaking down the standards. For example, it has been deemed necessary to carry out one phase of this B driving licence. The driving instruction for a moped card will be abolished, but the examination test will remain, i.e. the current model, there. But always in these cases, where standards are abolished and the threshold is lowered, comes to this road safety perspective, and it is important that we keep an eye on the matter and think about when we have to sort of pull the suspenders a little bit tighter and back, that we do not endanger road safety. In other words, there is a great deal of need for this monitoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u253	Mr President! In Finland, too, agriculture is developing very fast and the size of farms is increasing. At present, these fastest tractors, with a structural speed of more than 60 km, are not much used by agriculture, but as the development of farm sizes continues at this rate and the number of farms is increasing, they are likely to increase in the future. That is why we raised this issue in committee, and now we have changed this original government proposal so that there will be no need for a composite vehicle card to drive the fastest tractors in the future. If this composite vehicle card had come to these tractors, in practice it would have prevented these fastest tractors and more efficient machines from being introduced on farms, and farms will certainly need more and more of them in the future. In this Chamber earlier today, there has been a discussion of upper secondary school education and its changes. It went through things, that learning and knowledge are the most important thing. It's not how many hours people sit on the school bench, it's how people learn and know things. Also in this renewal of driving licences, the most important thing is that a person in school or a person entering a driving licence exam knows and controls these things. That means that others can very quickly get a card with little training, and others may have to spend quite many hours in the course, quite many hours in that car studying to drive before the card comes. That, in my opinion, is the best part of this driving licence reform that knowledge is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u254	Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u255	Mr President! The introduction — the clock ran a little too fast — did not say the safety, dark and slippery part. That is what we were actually going through very thoroughly. We went through where this should be done, or whether it should be done, and in what way and eventually, where. This is a very diverse and thorough approach to this issue, and the outcome is a reasonable, reasonable compromise. We were talking about tractors and what is a driving licence class, which drives what. I do not know how generally it is known, but there are now three categories of tractor plus then, of course, this old category of road tractor. In view of the fact that this type of normal tractor, which looks like a traditional agricultural tractor, recognizes as a tractor all but, for example, the ATV can be a tractor in all these categories, and then, when consideration is still given to the possibility of a speed restricted car being established in the future as an alternative to mopeds, probably in one of these categories of tractor vehicles, it is noted that in this vehicle category alone there are different vehicles as many as possible. All of these have their own criteria based on speed and weight, which is the driving licence and driving licence category that can be used to drive it. It's quite complicated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u256	Madam President! I have just forgotten to address this health issue in my speech. It is quite clear that such endangerment to oneself, others and society in general is something that must be taken very carefully into account when granting a driving licence to a person. In my opinion, the chairman of the committee rightly argued that this is a question of appropriateness in the wider context. That health check usually takes into account the condition of the person. It is also understandable that other crimes have a good effect on the attitude of the driver. For example, drunk driving is one that makes you think about the validity of that license. In my opinion, such a one-off, among other things, in the case of drunk driving, even a slight drink driving, is one that should not always be categorically denied a driving licence for a limited period of time. But if you show carelessness, carelessness toward society, among other things, when drunk, under the influence of alcohol on several occasions by driving, then it must have an effect on whether this person is fit to drive a vehicle, taking into account these very dangers to others, to himself and to society in general. Then it is understandable that you cannot issue a driving licence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u257	Madam President! Article 5 of this bill refers to age requirements. For example, we have a minimum age of 21 years for obtaining a driving licence for category C. This is said to come from EU legislation so that there can be no national judgement on this issue. I believe that this has also been considered as a rather unfortunate age requirement at European level. I think that the 18-year age requirement here should be sufficient for the C-card. It is often the case that if, for example, an 18-year-old young person goes to work in the summer, he cannot drive a delivery car in the store — even small transports there — because such a large van is already registered as a lorry in most cases, and therefore a merchant or some other company when making such transfers always has to drive a person who, in addition, has a professional qualification for such a transfer. Many entrepreneurs have found this regulation difficult because it is difficult to get summer workers during summer holidays who are adequately qualified to drive these vans that are registered as lorries. All in all, however, this report is a good one, and it gives a good signal to young people, too, that they should be enthusiastic about obtaining driving licences. This will then also reduce the price of driving licences, which is in itself a positive thing, because we in Finland have considerably higher driving licence prices compared to many other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u258	Madam President! Indeed, road safety is never given too much attention. It is therefore a good thing that this report also contains its own references to it, including, among other things, the training and participation of slippery weatherers, as well as the training of simulators, which, of course, provides basic education. Especially for young people today, who are used to using a variety of technical aids, this simulator training is a good addition, but of course it does not replace the natural, slippery driving training, and that too has been taken into account. Safety in the transport sector is absolutely essential, and I hope that this driving licence reform, although this will reduce many things, accessibility and training requirements, will not endanger road safety. In this context, it is now clearly easier to obtain a teaching licence, and I also hope that in that case, when Trafi or the relevant agency grants these permits, this problem will also be taken into account, that today a professional driver who has been guilty of traffic offences repeatedly and who may have driven heavy traffic overload will not be able to obtain a teaching licence if he has, as it were, three fines there for a few years, and it will take five years to die today. I hope that this matter will now be taken into account by the authority that the professional driver who drives is, of course, a better teacher in traffic than a person who will then receive a teaching licence in the future, even if he has not been driving a day after he has received a driving licence. This kind of conflict will hopefully be eliminated in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u259	Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say that Mr Vehkaperä and Mrs Maijala quite well emphasised that it is, of course, individual, how many driving lessons you need, and that is how it is. It is good, of course, that the more you can take them, the better, but when you justify the fact that you have to start teaching two years before the minimum age of your driving licence, I do not think that this is in itself a particular reason, because this 18-year-old age is by no means the maximum age, that at the age of 18 the card has to be completed, just when it is your birthday, but if you do not yet have the skills and need more education, then of course it is worth continuing those lessons and then a little later to obtain a driving licence than at the age of 18. In that sense, I do not see it as a reason for teaching to begin two years earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u260	Madam President! Generally speaking, I draw attention to the fact that this reform is in the right direction in that the price of a driving licence as a whole has become far too expensive for a young person. At least parents can't afford to give it to him. It is therefore necessary to ensure and monitor that these different systems keep this price in check in such a way that it does not get up in such a way that it is actually a major obstacle for young people to obtain a driving licence, because it is absolutely essential for today's traffic that as many people as possible have a driving licence, not just for the transport itself, but for the transport itself in general, because it has become diversified and stimulated in such a way that, for the safety of people themselves and others, it is good and absolutely necessary to have sufficient civilised behaviour in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u261	Madam President! I would like to make one last point, in addition to road safety, about the reform of driver training. In committee work, when we currently have many members of the Committee on Transport and Communications here in the Chamber, we made several contributions from Traf on this renewal of the driving test, and the answers were similar to the fact that the plans for the renewal of the driving test are very incomplete, that questions have been raised, and sometimes it seemed that this preparatory work has not even begun. The law will enter into force in July, as we members of the committee are well aware, and I dare say that I am not the only member of the committee who has been informed today that this situation is still similar. If we consider that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have now adopted such a law, then this reform of driver training is so important that we, as legislators, also have a responsibility that this work will now be carried out in order to renew this qualification, even though it is Trafi's responsibility. But really with regard to this feedback I received today on this subject, I dare say that I was not the only one on this subject. Then, as far as this individual education is concerned, when there is a debate here about the fact that you can now start driving a driving licence with your own loved ones even when you are 16 years old to drive in that traffic, I sort of understand this individual thinking here. But then we must remember that time and again, in this legislative work, there is also talk behind various legislative proposals and ideas that people today know and know their own rights well but not necessarily their own responsibilities. I really do not want to say with this that parents, close people who start thinking about their young people would not take full responsibility for how they behave in traffic, for example, but this has come to light in the light of studies that such a compact, compact package in our young people's lives for that traffic behavior is more reasonable than this kind of possible two-year driving training. In other words, we must also bear in mind that this will certainly require follow-up in the future, and then we must be able to go back to it if we have gone wrong, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u262	Mr President! These driving licence ages or this, when things can start driving and so on. The EU makes it possible to issue a category B licence at the age of 17. In the past there have been exceptions to the Finnish cards, and still this kind of exceptional situation may be possible, and then it is perfectly natural that it is driving training done earlier. Then, of course, there is also this pattern of educational permission: if you look at the situation in your family, you may not be driving so often, and then it is good to have it spaced a little longer for a period of time. As far as professional drivers are concerned, the committee has been somewhat concerned about the completion of the driving licence. It is evident that young people in the capital region are already driving their driving licences later than the age of 18. This could result in a certain shortage of professional drivers in the future, and this is one of those things to follow. It is included in that latter statement. The trout brought up these settings, how much further the law will then be written. This is not the only law with the possibility of a regulation, and it will provide the details. I dare say, as chairman of the committee, that although we are fully employed — that is, despite the fact that we have a meeting plan full for the rest of the term — if the regulations adopted do not correspond to the spirit of the committee and the spirit of the law, then we are prepared to take action to reopen the matter — of course in cooperation — if that is not the case. It will probably go through an easier route, but in this way I would like to rush into doing the job, but also to remind you that it must be grade A and nothing hastily done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u263	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u264	Mr President! Some years ago, international agreements aimed at reducing sulphur oxides in ships were discussed in this Chamber. The alternative to reducing sulphur oxides was the installation of scrubbers on ships, the use of low sulphur fuels or the use of liquid natural gas (LNG). This was the case with the SECA areas, which also include Finnish waters. Now the aim of the proposal is to reduce nitrogen oxides. These are covered by the MARPOL Convention and the amendments will enter into force for Finland and will be recorded in the Maritime Environmental Protection Act. These changes will therefore reduce the load on water and air caused by shipping. This is a good thing in principle and concerns the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel engines in ships. I think it is important that Finland's position in all these global and European negotiations on shipping and vessel traffic is based on the fact that these agreements apply to waters worldwide. This should not impose a burden on Finland as a reduction in competitiveness and so on, because we are extremely dependent on maritime transport and shipping for foreign trade. In other words, I think it is important in the future that both sulphur and nitrogen oxide emission reduction conventions should be global and that the Council of State should also implement this approach when negotiating these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u265	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u266	Madam President! Once again, it is a matter of the government’s top theme, that is to say, the crackdown on standards. This proposal proposes to amend the law on crew and ship safety management and the Law on Maritime Labour Contracts, and therefore the current law on the listing of crews would be repealed. The law is intended to enter into force this summer, and the change here is the removal of the obligation to establish the occupation and the manning certificate from small vessels in inland waters and coastal areas. This would be replaced by the minimum manning provided for by the Government Decree. The draft law gives robot ships the right to derogate from the manning rules in a restricted area by means of a separate pilot permit for which an opinion from the maritime safety authorities can be requested. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the committee to the fact that the draft law is certainly welcome and seems so-called simple, perhaps too simple, to the work of the Committee on Transport and Communications, but I am sure that the safety and responsibility issues of the proposal are relevant, which must now be clarified through the consultation of the committee, and that means that this is ready to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u267	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u268	Mr President! Broadbands are a prerequisite for the survival and development of sparsely populated areas. It is indeed a good thing that this set time limit is now being removed from this law and that we allow the development that has been well underway to continue. Broadbands are modern paved roads. You can get it forward with a tractor, a rover and a snowmobile in winter when you talk about physical mobility. This can be compared to the fact that if broadband is not in order and if it is not built in the right way, then mobility is really slow and that you cannot move forward if we do not have proper connections. This law, which is in force, has produced good results, but the problem has always been that the mobilisation of broadband in sparsely populated areas has required the establishment of cooperatives or other systems for financing. When these activities have begun to be built and thought about who is doing and how to do these things in the voluntary communities, many times it has taken time. Very fine achievements have been accomplished in the villages, but time has not been enough. Still on this issue of the importance of broadband for rural areas: Finland’s future, however, is very much dependent on natural resources. The whole of Finland must remain available in a diverse way so that with these good connections we can also develop tourism and diverse manufacturing activities, but without proper connections nothing will work properly. I am absolutely in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u269	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal proposes to amend the law on aid for broadband construction in sparsely populated areas so that the deadline for submitting a payment application is abolished. This would allow the development of supported links and the payment of aid to them after 2019. It is therefore a question of facilitating the application for broadband support by removing the deadline for the application for payment of the aid, which does not give rise to any haste with regard to construction. However, the aid application itself should continue to be submitted by the end of this year. Last year, the conditions for access to the aid and the eligible network were eased, and now this payment has been made. The Committee on Transport and Communications, as a member of which I am allowed to act, supported the amendment in its report but criticised the fact that it would not be good for project planning, implementation and aid to be balanced if the legislation on aid were to be amended in the course of repeated substantial changes to the project. In the view of the Committee, these amendments to the Broadband Support Act have also become unnecessarily difficult to understand. The committee also considered it very important that the processing of applications and the payment of aid be carried out in a flexible manner, taking into account the timetables for the implementation of the projects, so that the ongoing projects can be completed properly and fairly. I feel that this unanimous wish of the committee has now been answered. Last in early April, a parliamentary working group on sparsely populated rural areas considered that public authorities will create long-term conditions for broadband construction with public support even after 2020, when the Rapid Broadband project will end. It's important. State aid is needed in particular in areas where it is not profitable to invest on a market-based basis in the construction of a fixed network due to low number of subscribers and long distances. How do I feel that we are going to get another simple and one-sided matter to be resolved in committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u270	Mr President! Just as Mrs Maijala said earlier, broadband is today's basic infrastructure, and more and more we have different services going online, and it is quite clear that the connections will have to be in place throughout the country so that they can be used. It is absolutely excellent that this deadline for payment applications should now be abolished so that these projects, which are in the planning process, can be completed and, on the other hand, because the money has already been allocated, this money will then be used up for this purpose, because it will certainly go for an essential purpose. It is good that the money has been taken, and it is good if we can use it all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u271	Madam President! Thus, the Rapid Broadband Programme is under way, which has entered into force in 2010. Its purpose is to build, build or provide funds with public support to build broadband networks in areas that would otherwise not be connected, i.e. on market terms. The strategic guidance of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government is definitely to improve the digitalisation of Finland and the digitalisation of services with it. Therefore, it is particularly important that the broadband network extends to different parts of the country. Representative Maijala verified very well, which is why Finland needs a wide-ranging and comprehensive broadband network to secure our public services, but also various industries throughout Finland. Some EUR 135 million has been earmarked for public support for broadband projects, of which EUR 69.5 million comes from the State, approximately 25 million from the European Union’s rural programme for mainland Finland and some EUR 40 million from the municipalities. EUR 24.7 million remains for new projects. That is why it is important now to look at what marginal conditions we can make available that reserved money by moving it. After all, the conditions for aid for broadband projects have been changed very much over the years in this Chamber, even in accordance with needs. The ownership of the projects has been reduced, the advance payment partly to cover the costs of these projects has been made possible and the amount of aid has also been changed along the way. Now, in the Government's proposal, the due date for payment applications has been proposed and is now needed. Therefore, the deadline for submitting applications for aid does not change anything, but these payments would still be possible after the closure of the deadline, June 2019, in order to provide the necessary funding for the projects that have been implemented. I also think it is important to make this regulation smoother so that electronic documents can also be sent to the FICORA, so that electronic services can also be made available for these broadband projects in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u272	Mr President! The committee has clearly understood the importance of these broadband issues. With this speech I would like to emphasise and remind you that when comparing the differences between wireless and fibre connections, both have their own place and their own meaning. For example, if we go to future robot cars, they need a 5G network, which, on the other hand, will not be created without a dense network of base stations, which will not be created without a fibre net. In other words, these are not mutually exclusive, and these different forms of implementation always have their own role and purpose. It is good that it is now easier and still possible to build a fibre network. It should be borne in mind that the future is not just wireless broadband but will always need fiber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u273	Madam President! This government proposal to change the broadband support criteria is a good and welcome one. After all, broadband has been built in Finland for years, and the problem is that these good projects have not been made progress. Now they have started to rise in Finland, but the deadlines are starting to pop. It is a good thing that the deadlines are extended in this way. As Mr Jalonen said there, it is very important that these fibre networks are built all over Finland, including in sparsely populated areas, because mobile access is not enough, its data transfer capacity and reliability are not what is needed in modern remote work and the management of modern equipment in sparsely populated areas. Consequently, the fibre network provides the reliability and data transfer capacity which cannot therefore be provided by the mobile connection contrary to the arguments of some very enthusiastic sellers. It must also be borne in mind that these mobile connections need a fibre connection to the base stations, and there is, of course, a possibility of synergy, i.e. that operators and broadband cooperatives across Finland will cooperate in this respect. However, this does not seem to have been the case in particular, and I do not foresee such large-scale cooperation in the future, but there would be a chance. Equally, all this is a necessary reform, and it is good that these networks run by broadband cooperatives and other local actors across Finland are being built as much as possible in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u274	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 13 April 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u275	Mr President! We will continue the debate on this important initiative. When we talk about taxing plastic packaging, we talk about something bigger at the same time. Let's go over the facts. A week ago on Wednesday, we had an over-consumption day. This means that 3.6 worlds would be needed if everyone were to spend like us Finns. However, we are not alone with the problem, but in one way or another it concerns the whole world community. It is therefore clear that economic growth must be disengaged from the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources, and it is also clear that climate change must be curbed. The current measures are not enough. The use of plastic puts a lot of strain on the environment. Its use must therefore be reduced and made more efficient. Here taxation is one tool. The Social Democrats proposed taxing plastic packaging already in 2009. At that time, the alternative budget included a so-called packaging tax. In this time’s spending limits debate, the government decided that it would launch a study on plastic tax in the autumn. The report is due to be completed in the run-up to the elections, so a plastic tax or other possible tools can be introduced in the next Government Programme. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the government is once again in a late stage. If the government had been interested in promoting the sustainable use of natural resources already during the government negotiations, perhaps we would have heard about the details of the new plastic tax on the day of over-consumption. Now only a new report was decided in the spending limits debate, and the real solutions are once again left to the next government, like all the important reforms needed to put growth on a sustainable footing. As a member of the tax section of the Committee on Finance, I have found that too often we only look at the world through the economy. In Parliament, we hear the most experts in economic and legal matters. We should listen to them, but at the same time other questions and perspectives are too much to pay attention to. Ensuring the fight against climate change and sustainable development are so important for Finland and for all mankind that their consideration should be a consistent principle that goes through all legislative reform. This is also what the SDP is trying to achieve. As part of our tax programme to be published in the spring, in fact within a few weeks, we will introduce a systematic principle in which all tax reforms will also be considered from the perspective of sustainable development. At the same time, it is necessary to assess how problems can be tackled more effectively. After all, the effects of taxation are often limited and, in parallel, subsidies, bans and restrictions are needed. At the same time, it is clear that in some situations taxation is the most effective way of affecting businesses and consumers. Money matters. We had an example of this approach last week when Parliament dealt with the broad reform of the EU's VAT system. We have pointed out how VAT can be transformed into a tool for ecological reforms. Such a value-added tax for sustainable development is part of the tax and subsidy line of the SDP that encourages the circular economy. On the subject of VAT, we supported the Commission's proposal, which the government, on the other hand, has a weak attitude. The Government’s position is based on the legitimate view of the Ministry of Finance as such that the wider use of VAT rates threatens to entail administrative costs. However, this is an incomparable narrow perspective on a major social issue. The reform of VAT should be seen as an opportunity to reform the world rather than a threat. VAT can be used quickly and flexibly to control a large number of consumers and businesses, where, for example, the use of direct payments requires administratively heavy search processes, often involving only large companies. The reform of the VAT Directive also makes another point visible. All countries have the opportunity to promote sustainable development, but the objective cannot be achieved alone. The fight against climate change and sustainable development should also be a cross-cutting principle in Finland's foreign and EU policies. It should be the top themes of the Finnish Presidency of the EU next year. The fight against climate change is often seen as restrictions, prohibitions and repression, but, Mr President, a reform of the economy can bring something better into place. By supporting the circular economy or public transport, the Finnish business field could be reformed and new business opportunities created. Sitra estimates that as many as 70,000 jobs, new, sustainable export industries and solutions to save the planet could be created in the circular economy in the next few years. This is a challenge once again for the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u276	Mr President! If such a tax were already in place, it would be likely that I would always have a bag with me, but when it’s so easy to buy a plastic bag for a few cents, I don’t have to carry it on the way. The same thing is that when we have a deposit system for drinking bottles — and it is really great worldwide that it has been achieved — it does not make economic sense for us plastic bottles to put them on the plane and so on, but it is a great thing for the environment and for our overall development. So I really support this proposal from my heart. Environment and sustainable development, of course, are common issues for all of us, common issues for all parties. Not that the centre has always been green in color, but we are trying to do our best to do these things. Now, on this bill: I really think it would be a good idea to get this through even because we should move from plastic to other raw materials. We have already developed a wide range of products from wood, for example, and we would have really good replacement systems. And it is quite the case that we now also have shots placed in the meeting rooms of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which are no longer traditional plastic, but some biodegradable mots there are now. On top of that, you can't tell the difference or what they are, but they're much better raw material. But now to this very original performance: with such a pattern, with such a presentation and with a tax, we could be a good example. And I believe that the Finns would welcome this with pleasure. Perhaps paying is always abominable, but I believe that once this was decided, a change would be made very quickly and probably not be remembered at all in a couple of years’ time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u277	Mr President! Indeed, this referral debate started last Friday, and these tails are still here. It was very gratifying that on Friday the initiative was also supported in every speech and from all sides of the Chamber. I hope that this plastic packaging tax will be brought forward quickly. As Mrs Maijala has just said, I am quite convinced that the citizens will see that this tax, as one of the means, will certainly change behaviour in such a way that, for example, those bags will always be included. In fact, experience from other countries is of this kind that once a tax has been imposed, people have been quite happy with it, because now we have been wide-ranging around the world about the problem of plastic waste. When we get to read the news about how the seas are filled with plastic and how more plastic is found in the animal’s stomach than in actual food, it is clear that action needs to be taken. I think it is good in itself that this idea has been on the table before. It is a good thing that the demos have been making a packaging tax in their day. The Greens have also proposed a couple of times, taken initiatives on the plastic bag tax, Oras Tynkkynen for the first time in 2006, but now it seems that the time is opportune to support this widely from all parties. I very much hope that we can make rapid progress here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-18-ps-37.u278	Mr President! In fact, this morning we had a very rewarding joint consultation between the large committee and the Committee on Finance, which looked at the possibilities for European Union own resources in the form of various taxes across national borders, and environmental taxes have a very great potential for the future. They are, of course, precisely the kind of taxes that affect cross-border issues. One of the themes raised by the European Commission is the CO2 tax and here not only the current production tax but also the consumption component. So all consumption would be accompanied by an estimate of how much CO2 it uses or its impact on climate change. This is very welcome thinking, and that is precisely what I have just said, that we could link this CO2 tax to the current value added tax, insofar as the European Commission would already like to allow Member States to have more and more powers to decide on their own VAT rates. This is one step towards bringing together CO2 tax and VAT practices and a determined political consensus to combat climate change, we can achieve what will be the backbone of social democrats' tax policy, namely the value added tax for sustainable development.
