ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Administrative Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 27 April 2018. Contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents in the debate, Eva Biaudet, supported by Johanna Karimäki, has proposed that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should also deliver an opinion to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. At its meeting on 2 May 2018, the Council of Presidents revised its earlier proposal and proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Administrative Committee, the Legal Committee and the Social Affairs and Health Committee must deliver an opinion. When the revised proposal of the Council of Presidents is the same as that of Mrs Biaudet, the proposal of the Council of Presidents should be adopted. I note that the referral debate was closed at the meeting on 27 April 2018, and this point can only be discussed on a proposal from the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u2	Mr President! Rarely will I be speechless, but I had now asked to speak on this subject. — This proposal from the Council of Presidents is good and excellent, and I support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u3	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u4	Mr President! The proposal for a new variable working time condition is an improvement on the status of the zero-contractors, albeit a modest one. However, as a result of a difficult and multi-stage negotiation process, it has come to a solution that creates unnecessary complexity in labour law and allows workers to be unjustifiably discriminated against. The contract clause for variable working hours does not in fact differ from the traditional part-time contract in so far as it is not possible to give consent to additional work for an indefinite period. In the event that the prohibition of a non-restricted supplementary worker's consent and a zero-hour period were extended to part-time contracts, the terms of the contract would be identical in substance. For this reason, there is no justification for the two different types of contract presented. The solution is problematic as it creates two groups of part-time workers from privileges to the Finnish labour market. In the future, even at the same workplace, the obligation to provide additional work may include both those who have given unlimited additional work consent and those who have received temporary additional work consent. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u7	Mr President! We had a rather thorough debate on this subject last week, so I will not start this debate again. The differences in government and opposition thinking were clearly highlighted in that debate. I would just like to say that this bill will improve the position of those working on a zero-hour contract, but not sufficiently. In the future, it will be more difficult for those working on a zero-hour contract to claim their rights and they will continue to be at the mercy of the employer in many respects. Good employers are given the opportunity to improve things, but legislation should provide adequate security for all workers. In our objection, we tabled amendments to the articles which would have improved the position of those working on a zero-hour contract more than the government's proposal, but we lost the vote. It can only be said here that much remains to be done for the next government on this issue, but I warmly support the proposal for a statement tabled by Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u8	Madam President! Two statements by the opposition have now been heard, which contain the content that the situation of people working on a zero-hour contract will be improved, but not sufficiently. If we are thinking about the citizens' initiative that was taken on this issue, then it was proposed to ban zero-hour contracts altogether. I believe that this is precisely the situation which is also the case with the solutions that the government has taken in the spending limits debate — which have already led to the intermediate issue — that when it comes to ensuring the best possible security for all those in work, decisions are being made which in fact mean fewer jobs. So, for example, a few days ago at Studio A, the question was whether a fixed-term employment relationship would be better or permanent. Of course, permanent is better, but fixed-term is better than unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u9	Mr President! This subject deserves to be addressed carefully and also leads to concrete conclusions. This uncertainty, in particular for young people, has a real impact on the decisions they make in their own lives. Recently, statistics on the birth rate of last year have been compiled, and that is really hard to read. So we have a birth rate of 50,000. So we have to go to the hungry years to find just as little faith in the future. Now that this young people’s life is being made uncertain by the various routes — fixed-term contracts, zero-hour contracts, many others — their final consequence is not to dare to make the decisions that mean starting a family and having children. This should also be our concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u10	Let's open this up. I would ask those of you who want a reply to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u11	Madam President! As has been pointed out earlier in this Chamber, it is a question of development measures following a citizens' initiative which would ban a zero-hour agreement. In my opinion, the Minister for Employment and the Economy has made an excellent compromise proposal between two very far-off opinions, and this agreement is now substantially improving the position of the citizens, the workers, who are covered by the former zero-hour agreement. The employer’s view of how much labour he needs starts with a variable working time contract. The pay for sick leave, maternity leave, qualifying periods have been agreed here in a reasonable manner and precisely at the level of part-time work. Personally, I prefer this contractual basis even better than the part-time agreement base.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u12	Madam President! It became clear in committee that this is not the easiest thing to do, and unfortunately, although the compromise was sought, then the opposition and the government parties could not reach a common agreement. Nevertheless, this is a clear step in the right direction, and what is particularly good about it is that it is now an obligation for the employer and the worker to consult each other, i.e. on both sides of the table, to discuss how this working time can be planned together. The employee still has the opportunity to involve the assistant in this process. There was room for improvement here, but it would be sad if this did not go forward even a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u13	Madam President! I do not want to criticise you in any way, but this is not about the Treaty, it is about legislation, Mr Talja. It must be understood that the social partners will then conclude agreements and that laws will be passed in this house. If there is no consensus in committee, let us be divided, then the opposition has not been criticised for not being a step in the right direction, but what we would certainly have liked more in the opposition is that workers' security should have been given greater value on the basis of the zero-contract citizens' initiative which is not being implemented here. In my opinion, the fact that there are two kinds of issues has been well mentioned here, and Mr Kontula has described it very well what should be done better, and in his protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u14	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma gave the impression that there is a situation in which more uncertainty is being created and working life becomes more difficult for the employee, but at least this bill makes it clear that the worker has a situation on the horizon for at least a week, if not two, of the kind and where the work is being done. And if the employer defines the work differently from what the need is, then it must be possible to negotiate that in the future the working time agreement will be the employer's need. In other words, the purpose of this is precisely to develop working life in such a way as to make it easier for the worker to plan his own life and then to reconcile more employers — for example, when he works for more than one employer if one employer does not have enough work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u15	Mr President! Yes, it seems that the employer here is able to plan whether to use the worker at work or not. For the worker, this is a very uncertain agreement, unfortunately nothing can be done about it. If the zero-hour contract includes a full zero, it will not give anything to the worker, not even to the smallest extent or the least security, and that is a good thing to remember. Zero only gives new security if you have been agreed hours earlier and the employee happens to get sick. In such cases, the employer must pay wages even if the employee is ill, according to the regulations. But under no circumstances is it said that the employer must give these hours more than zero to the employee. It seems to me now that this bill actually paves the way for the abolition of collective agreements, both general and normal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u17	Mr President! There is a good compromise proposal here, and this is easy to support. For young people, as Mr Heinäluoma pointed out, of course the world is more uncertain. The Parliamentary Committee on the Future says that the world will change more in the next 20 years than it has changed in the last 200 years. But the way in which we create certainty and a belief in the future for young people is precisely that we are reforming society in such a way that it is possible to get to work in this changing world of work as well, and in such a way that social security is safeguarded and that there is no senseless debt to the state economy and not even on the day of May.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u18	Mr President! We were already talking about the birth rate in this context. Birth rates are important, but we should not go into this kind of singing that we have seen in recent weeks, in which a large proportion of the amateur demographics that oppose the government are now linking the government's efforts to raise employment to these recent birth rates. There is no basis for such a thing. We know something about birth rates throughout Europe and Finland, and yet it has some connection with employment and unemployment. In other words, what the government is doing successfully, that is to say raising employment and reducing unemployment, may well be working in this direction, but we still have no evidence of that. And I must say to Mr Tolppa that the zero treaty does give exactly what it has to give to a person who wants such an agreement. We have a large number of different situations and people in the labour market,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u19	Mr President! It seems that there are two different debates in this Chamber. This legislative proposal before us is in itself a step in the right direction. But when Mr Heinäluoma broadened the debate to birth rates, among other things, it must be said that when discussing birth rates, the only way to discuss this is firstly to respect the right of women to self-determination; secondly, to increase equality in the labour market; and thirdly, to increase everyday safety for young people. As a whole, considering the steps taken by the government in the labour market for young people, the big problem is that young people's faith in the future has weakened, the instability of everyday life has increased, and it would require more action by the government to increase its security and future faith, rather than taking steps in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u20	Mr President! It is a pity that Mr Vartiainen left the Chamber, as he did last week, when he seems to question whether there is a link between insecurity in working life and the birth rate in that legislation, and has used the term ‘amateur’ on many occasions. Mr President! The two-year science workshop funded by the Finnish Cultural Fund addressed the challenges of starting a family. This workshop was attended by leading family researchers from Finland, Australia, Japan, Portugal and Britain. This science workshop, which really came to an end in this national study, found that gender equality issues, labour and family policies and the social climate are at the heart of child-raising decisions. I hope Mr Vartiainen doesn't think these scientists are amateurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u21	Madam President! Perhaps many of the good things that the government did in the first place have already been forgotten here: for example, the attempt to offset the cost of parenting with a lump sum of EUR 2500, the principle that we have, for the first time in the history of Finland, a Minister for the Family in the government, the fact that EUR 40 million was added to family services in a very difficult economic situation, the family centres have produced excellent results during these years — families are at the heart of all policy making, certainly. But then to this timely legislative proposal which we are discussing: it is good to see that opposition protests also state that this reform is in the right direction. Now there's some kind of game rules for zero-hour contracts. Of course, it can always be said that they are inadequate, but they are definitely in the right direction, also in the view of the opposition, if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u24	Mr President! Since my previous speech, several representatives have argued that this worker's situation is becoming more uncertain in this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u29	Madam President! There was a young person in my circle who was happy last summer to get a job, but in August they had turned their mouths down because it turns out that this is the kind of zero-hour contract, that is, he was offered only one time all summer hours: nine in the morning was called, and before 11 this one time was cancelled. Yes, these zero-hour contracts are quite unjustified for young people. We have 30,000 young people on a zero-hour contract who are still working full-time. Should they not be offered permanent employment in this situation? This applies to 83,000 workers — the majority are women, the majority are young, there are sellers, there are health workers — and this is true, it causes fear and uncertainty in these people. If you become ill or become pregnant, no working hours will be arranged. In this plight we have these young people, including when we talk about the birth rate. This is a step in the right direction, but this is completely inadequate. In the case of zero hour contract workers, there are still gaps and gaps in legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u30	Mr President! This government proposal on zero-hour contracts and the report from the Committee on Labour is, in my view, very good. The draft law creates the rules for the painful situation in which so far there have been little or no rules. Of course, the general conditions of labour law have also applied to those agreements, but now, in this draft law, which has finally received the form of a report, there are quite clear rules. And it would also be worth remembering the fact that no employer is tempted to make any agreements, I am not able to believe that, but it clearly creates the need to have a workforce. For example, seasonal work typically requires a labour force that has not been foreseen in any way during the winter season, for example, and there is certainly a need for such a workforce. When a person gets a job, an employer, even if on a fixed-term contract, that leads to a good case of a guy refurbishment at work and the employer finds that this young man is eligible for work and even a longer contract that opens it up to permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u31	Madam President! With these zero-hour contracts, the employer means well, they are not done for nothing, and the modern employer assumes that the employee who is satisfied, performs the job in a motivated way and the result is usually better. [ Requests for answers from the left] The fact that these contracts, which are valid for an indefinite period of time, hardly arise is due to the fact that the risk bearing capacity of the other party, the entrepreneur, is not sufficient for him to assume such responsibility, for example in the service sector, where demand for labour and the need for service vary considerably over a year or a day or a week. However, one way or another, it is better for a person to get to the work community.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u32	Mr President! Representative Suutari, I asked a question to the minister here in the referral debate — I'm going to put it to you: We had such a young man named Eetu, 25 years old, in this kind of short-time Pamflet. He was on a zero-hour contract with four employers. In December, the total salary of these four employers amounted to EUR 1670 — 1672 was the total — and then in January to EUR 167. The question is, how does this law change this situation? How do you start a family in such a situation and think about giving birth to children? Then I would also like to say, when you say that we only have to discuss the issue which is now here in the debate, that the whole policy of this government is very anti-employee and very anti-young people if you consider these proposals about the lack of a fixed-term employment relationship or an eternal probation period in the form of a reduction in employment security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u34	Madam President! However, it is good to remember in this debate that the citizens' initiative on a total ban on zero-hour contracts was the starting point and did not receive Parliament's support because the Ministry of Employment and the Economy wanted to prepare for better legislation. We now have a proposal for better lawmaking, which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities has also dealt with in its report. It should be borne in mind that if there were no zero-hour contracts, then another option would be that there would be temporary employment. So you have to think that when work is broken up, the picture of work changes, and in that sense everything in this house must be done to make those working conditions even better. Yes, I share the concern expressed in this Chamber about the birth rate: it is quite clear that permanent employment is the kind of employment in which people dare to start a family and have children. So, in that sense, this concern is certainly common, but yes, it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u35	Madam President! There are a few more older representatives in this Chamber, and at least when I founded and formed the family myself, unemployment security was considerably lower than today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u40	Mr President! The purpose of this bill was precisely to improve the two main shortcomings. The second was that the need is for full work but not to be hired only on a zero-hour contract. This should go away, and I hope that those trials will result in employers who are in a position to play in this way then being held responsible for it, because the labour market is calling for fair play. In my opinion, it is a fair game that if you have a full-time need, then you hire full-time. Then there is another need, for some other reason than the need for work, to reduce the amount of work that Mrs Rinne has pointed out here. It must also leave here. And it is through this bill that it will go away if there are legal proceedings in which the employer is liable for them, because there is something other than a reduction in work on the basis of a substantial reduction in work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u41	Mr President! After all, the zero-hour contract currently has a free reserve for the employer without employers' responsibilities. But if we are talking about this line of employment and labour market policy in the Sipilä government, it is its aim that it should return to both the unemployed and the workers. Some types of unemployed people who are being cut off from the active model, young people have already been the target of many weakenings so far, and the Kiki Agreement is treating women and women-dominated sectors in particular very badly. And this report will not bring any substantial change for the better. In the past, when care was taken — or at least efforts were made to take care of — the proper rules of the game, the goal of the labour market policy was that first the worker, for example through an internship, should show himself, then the subsidised fixed-term job, then a fixed-term job without support and then an indefinite contract of employment. In other words, a permanent employment relationship was sought, since now it seems to be the intention to seek permanent insecurity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u42	Madam President! Indeed, we in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities have dealt with this issue for a long time and on many occasions. It is true that this is a mouse step for the better. It is important to create good rules of play, because we know that, especially in the field of social services, this will grow. Now that this reform of the government is being carried out, this type of employment will certainly increase more in the field of social services. But perhaps the steak of this whole thing is that this consolidates the use of zero-hour contracts as part of our labour market, and I find that worrying. Then on this condition that the need for labour is firm. If I work on a variable working time contract and I have a lot of hours, but there is still zero in the contract, then I can ask the employer for some negotiation, but it does not necessarily lead to any results. So in practice, we should have created clearer rules for this. I do not understand why we must always seek a solution through justice. Should we legislators not make clear rules of the game so that we do not have to go to court and challenge them? This consolidates zero-hour contracts as part of our labour market, and that is regrettable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u43	Let us have a few more replies and then we shall go to the list of speakers. — Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u44	Madam President! Finland has a historically low birth rate, and on that basis, I think it is quite appropriate to pay attention to this in all respects. On the third point, Mr Lindtman also raised the importance of the social climate in starting to have children as a matter of importance. It is good to remember that we also create the atmosphere, how we talk about things here and how the media communicates it. It was decided to start preparing a strategy for children and the family in the spending limits debate. This is an enormously important matter for us to have a policy that goes beyond the parliamentary term and that supports it, and these solutions do not run counter to it. It certainly matters how young families feel secure in this regard. It is also good to remember that we decided together to give when Finland turned 100, to Itla, the Children's Foundation for the Year of Independence, EUR 50 million, and that foundation is working for children and families with children. It is
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u45	Mr President! Of course, I believe that the opposition today claims that this government has adopted anti-wage policies, but when I was in the opposition during the last parliamentary term, I very much criticised the regime then that the then government had adopted anti-wage policies. And, in fact, it succeeded in doing so in the way that 100,000 jobs were lost, which this government has managed to recover, i.e. by making more employees in nearly 100,000 of this country. In addition to a reduction in labour taxation, the actions of this government cannot now be properly accused of being anti-employees. But when it comes to this birth rate and its reduction, it is of course a matter of concern. It is influenced by young people’s faith in the future at all, and there are many different things involved. But I do not understand this logic when it is said that if the status of those under the zero-hour agreement is improved, it would have a negative impact on birth rates. This logic does not make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u46	Madam President! Here Mr Vartiainen said earlier that zero-hour contracts are only concluded by those who want to accept a zero-hour employment contract, but at the same time the government is proposing that those under 30 years of age should receive these contracts. This law, this proposal, says that there must always be grounds for a zero-hour contract. But what are the grounds? I will take an example of how it is with regard to the seller of the ice cream stand, for example. My own daughter has once worked at an ice cream shop, and when she had a working day marked and it rained in the morning, the employer called that now it rains, there is no need to come. In the afternoon the sun was shining, when the employer called at four o’clock, that at five o’clock the kiosk was set up again, welcome to work and so on. So the weather's the guy who did it? And how do you expect these young people to live in this constant expectation that they are going to work in the morning or in the afternoon and so away? We are discussing a government proposal on the basis of a citizens' initiative here, and it seems very strange that it is constantly being said here that there is a compromise at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u47	Madam President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä mentioned the situation in which we are currently living. We have a zero-hour contract between 0 and 40, which limits the employer's ability to enter into contracts of this kind, but it must be based on that particular need for labour. Mr Kymäläinen has just mentioned a situation in which this legislation now defines the obligation to make a schedule three weeks in advance. Such a situation can no longer arise in this new situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u50	Mr President! When it comes to the 100,000 new jobs, it should be remembered that the number of hours worked in the first quarter did not increase. If jobs are increasing but hours are not increasing, then my mathematics there can be nothing more than the fragmentation of work that we are talking about in part when we talk about zero-hour contracts. It has been said from the government's side that the demands of the opposition to tighten up the zero-sovereign regulation cannot be made because of jobs. I would now like to hear the way in which this proposal to clarify legislation and make it easier to understand weakens the ability of companies to employ, or the way in which other proposals voted on last week — the right to resign if the employer does not provide an hour’s work — undermine employment opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u51	Madam President! Of course, the aim is for young people, like everyone else, to have work, to be able to gain work experience and to demonstrate their abilities and to have a permanent job. All these entities that the government has made are aimed at making people have more work. I do wonder a little about these speeches that this 100,000 new jobs would make no difference, but would now be fragmented and that would be a bad thing in some way. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u52	Madam President! I am delighted that nearly 100,000 people have taken a path to work. And if the government wants to take all the credit for it, take it away, but remember that it is wrong to swear here that this 100,000 new recruits will receive a thousand euros more a month. Don't tell me that. Congressman Kontula has just told us that there has been no more hours. How can it be said then that the market, the unemployed have increased by EUR 1 000 a month if, adding up, there has not been any more hours? Someone has then lost the same amount of hours of work, and that is precisely the situation described by Mr Kontula that the working life has been fragmented. So this one's out of somebody. In my opinion, it is inconsistent to say that almost 100,000 people have come
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u53	Madam President! Now I have to say that in Parliament, through the laws, we do not add the thousands of euros, they are matters of the contractual society, as you referred to in your first speech. Now you're talking a little bit about the fact that it's our fault here in Parliament if you haven't got a thousand euros into the account when you get this new deal,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u54	Mr President! I would also like to emphasise that this bill is an improvement on the current situation, and the opposition certainly does not wish to deny it. It is also true that we have people who want to work on zero-hour contracts, and that too will be all right. But those who would like more hours will still be left alone to claim these rights. For example, if the worker believes that the establishment of working time would be justified there at his place of work and that there would be more work to do, and he is going to demand it, then it will be a long and demanding process for him and many workers will leave the matter if he has to take this to court. It is far too unreasonable to demand such a thing. On the other hand, there is also a high risk that hours will be reduced or stopped altogether if the employee starts criticising the employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u55	Madam President! I wonder at the attitude that the employer is supposed to be such a mean person who wants to tease people with some strange agreements. Indeed, I know that, for example, real estate companies and many of these seasonal companies have a lot of work in this summer that does not exist, for example, during wintertime, and they hire people like this, which is for a while in the house. I myself have done a lot of such work while studying, and I am not bitter about that time — an interesting, challenging time —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u57	Mr President! I think Mr Hoskonen is going to be confused with seasonal work and zero-hour contracts, with varying working hours, but we can come back to this later. Mr President! To this birth rate: I could not believe it when Mr Reijonen said that, after all, children were made before, and that this uncertainty in working life now had to do with it. Do you, the government parties, know what kind of fixed-term, short-term jobs today's young people live in the labour market? 60% of new fixed-term contracts are targeted specifically at women;
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u58	Madam President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen made a very good and constructive speech, and I thank him for that. The representative, Mr Lindtman, spoke, wondered why children were made. Without going any further into the MO or motivation which is why children are made over their heads or why children are blessed, but when Mr Lindtman asked whether ‘you know about young people’s lives’, I have two sons, between 20 and 20 years of age,and both do small jobs. It was said that ‘the father’s,renewal of the contract of employment,nowin the middle of the door, ‘and I said to the boys that‘this is The boys were glad to be able to study and work along these lines. I'm sure it's a very complex matter, and it feels like we're talking over each other and there's been a slight misunderstanding, but we're good on the path.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u59	Madam President! There was a debate here a moment ago about the attitude of this government as a whole towards working life and its security/insecurity, and when it was told by the government parties that we do not remember at all what has been done during this term of government, I can vouch for the fact that it will be remembered. For example, many people will remember these threats of forced law that the government did: jumped into the locker booth of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, and then, finally, as a result, this giggle arose, which led to the fact that certainly quite a few low-paid women in the public sector remember that the holiday money has actually been cut off by this government. Many people remember that this government introduced an active model that violates the sense of justice, and I am sure many people today are asking, in those Vapour markets, how many young people came to ask why it is that there is now still a decline in the security of employment, including for these young people's unwarranted short-term jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u60	Representative Ala-Nissila, and then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u61	Mr President! I just read the last press release of the Confederation of Finnish Industries that 22 per cent of Finnish companies suffer from labour shortages and see that this is an obstacle to their growth. This fact that jobs are available will always improve the position of the worker. We know that some people are starting to get a little higher, and that is, of course, a good thing in the employee's economy as a whole, and in terms of the overall picture, we need to think about it. But it is worth remembering that there is now a vision of hope for young people when they have to work and apply directly from the university even before graduation to work in many areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u62	Mr President! Mr Kontula said, as it is, that unfortunately the hours worked have not increased in the same number as the number of jobs has increased according to statistics. We are working hours at the 2000 level at the moment, and here is the essence of our whole debate, that employment relations have been fragmented and that this zero-hour and part-time work is increasingly being carried out. My concern is genuine about this birth rate, that the young age group will face this uncertainty with all its strength. However, those who have already been in employment have, on average, better working conditions in relation to the safety of the night place. If we cannot look at this concern in the whole of politics, what is being done in Finland, including government policy, then we do not have any solutions either. Yes, we need to talk about why the birth rate has collapsed last year to the level before that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u63	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u64	Madam President! We may have to comment on this recent debate to the extent that more jobs have been created during this parliamentary term. The increase is 77090 jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u69	Mr President! I am still concerned about the active model in this proposal. In fact, if a person receives this zero-labour contract and an active model requires that the work be done 18 hours in three months, then if there is no such work but is round zero for the three months, will this person fall into the hands of the active model and cut his unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u72	Mr President! This debate in the Chamber has gone on and on about where — the decisions of the last period and so on — and I do have the impression that the previous government was working very seriously as well as this current government, and it was first, of course, to stop the steep decline that had occurred at the time. In retrospect, of course, you can conclude from the figures that there were bad decisions taken, but I myself remember that when in the 21st century our company was in Hanover in Germany every year at fairs such as Cebit and saw the development of what happened to Finnish engineering in the middle, then at first there were perhaps a few ten small Chinese companies offering communications services, for example, and then when I went there between 2007 and 2008, half of the companies were Chinese, and they were really big companies, which means that their power was bigger than all the others combined. Yes, at that point it occurred to me that something should be done about this for Finnish expertise and also for work. It was precisely after the collapse which had occurred, for example in the telecommunications sector and in the forest industry, that, of course, it was not easy to rise again, and the previous government had to take adjustment decisions and tax increases, all of which, of course, have a negative effect on employment. Well, now that those decisions have ended and we have a new government, I think that this government has made very specific decisions that continue to ensure that Finland remains competitive or at least strives for competitiveness and then seeks to increase Finnish employment, because that is the only way we can survive, i.e. full employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u75	Madam President! The content of Mr Suutari's speech, how well he is familiar with it, must be appreciated, and he is able to give an excellent account of what is at stake here. I have to say that this may be a small step towards employee protection, but it is a big step towards the fact that the zero agreement now comes as a legal opportunity. So far, unfortunately, it has been out of the law and the social partners have not been able to take over this issue among themselves, and it is good that this is indeed a small step. When we talk here about zero-hour contracts and doing temporary agency work, we should have the expertise of the speakers that, at the moment, temporary agency contracts are largely zero-hour contracts and, unfortunately, their harsh use is based on the very fact that when a person falls ill, it is announced the next day that there is no need to avoid paying sick pay. Now Mr Suutari here described that this brings something new and improved to this, and it is also a good step in this. There's no point denying it. I too would like to address the issue of fertility, so that when Mr Lehti said that universality is something that is the greatest brake on birth, I would have liked Mr Lehti to have listened to those comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u78	Mr President! Now Mr Tolppane is no longer here, but I would have specified that when he spoke about Minister Lindström, he said that Lindström had been a shop steward. According to my information, Lindström was a worker safety councilman at his own factory, not a shop steward. To Mr Kymäläinen, I would say that when you talk about your daughter, who has worked at the ice cream stand, I myself have been an ice cream stand entrepreneur for over a decade and have made zero-hour contracts for a long time, but even now there have been rules of play, such that the work schedules, which are made for three weeks, must be published one week before the work schedule comes into force. So we're gonna have to publish the schedule a week before the first day. The shifts on that schedule must then be paid to the employee. So it was raining or frying, however, they must be paid anyway. This is the kind of situation you described as being called in the morning, that now you do not have to come to work today, however, does not relieve your employer of paying the wages listed on the duty roster of that day. All in all, now that the status of those under the zero-hour agreements is improved, just as the opposition has now admitted that this bill will improve the status of workers in the zero-hour contracts, I still do not see the logic of its damaging effect on fertility. Yes, young people who are considering a child — I have personal experience of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u81	Mr President! Again, in this debate, it has become clear that this draft law before us increases the safety and predictability of workers in the labour market. And this is what is really happening, but why is this not entirely satisfactory? Perhaps the biggest problem in this respect is that this bill does not take sufficient account of the unequal negotiating position of the contracting parties as a whole assumed by our labour law, i.e. the basic assumption on which our entire labour law regulation has been built in due course. It assumes that the worker is in a sufficiently strong position, i.e. if the employer does not properly agree with him according to the hours worked for the hours worked, he will ultimately sue his employer for these matters. In the light of real life, this is truly unrealistic. It must be a really big abuse, or an exceptionally good resource for this worker, so that he can do so. When one remembers that zero - hour contracts are often made by workers who are very young may not yet be organized into any union, that is to say, they do not have the support of the union behind them, then unrealisticity is growing. Bearing in mind that zero contracts are often concluded in low-wage sectors where compensation for workers is easy, the likelihood of such legal proceedings continues to be reduced. Let me give you two examples. Before I came to this house, I studied the workers between informal and formal work. This is my first example from Pirkanmaa. An immigrant with African background who has residence permits and life here in good condition worked as a cleaner at the market. The employer in the reporting type decreased his salary, which was already poorly small, by nearly EUR 2. I went to the trade union office with this person to say that this should now be addressed, that it is not appropriate to do so, and that help was offered that this is a very clear question. The worker was afraid to take it because he thought he would never get a job in that area again, and he is still cleaning the market there now with that lower salary. Another example, a friend of mine in Finland, a low-paid person in the logistics sector. His company used to put the entire staff or all the workers on the floor on unpaid leave for a few weeks during Christmas. Well, this person knew that this could not be done under the TES and the laws, and so he challenged this practice and was able to fight for himself the right to work according to the laws. But in appreciation of this, the employer changed his job description so that he was isolated in a separate room from all the other workers and his break was defined at a different time from that of all the other workers, so that this matter could not spread and that the other workers would not demand that the laws should be observed in this company as well. Yes, they do learn in such a way that it is not advisable to intervene in these matters. These are just an example of situations where work is actually being done in the low-wage sector, and if we now imagine that this individual worker, possibly unorganised, is going into a heavy judicial process against his employer, who may be a very large, even international company, then it has nothing to do with this world and with the facts. This is the reason why this regulation is not enough to create such a security that the good intentions of this proposal and justifiable requirements in real life will be fulfilled. I don't think they will. The second thing that has come up in this debate several times is that there is an injury to the fact that employers here are somehow suspected of harassing their evil or evil employees. I personally find it very unpleasant to have a political debate that starts to personalise social problems as characteristics of individual people or to moralise individual people and actors in such a context. In my opinion, this is the same talk as when it comes to the laziness of the unemployed, and I do not wish to hear it in the social debate. But the fact is that the job of a company, whether an employer is a good person or a bad person, is to make a profit, and the lower the labour costs, the higher the return on capital, and the most important single factor affecting the cost of labour is the ratio between demand and supply. On this basis, keeping the underemployed in the reserve may be entirely consistent and logical from the point of view of the company, regardless of whether there are good or bad people working or deciding. It is not the evilness of people, not the nature of people, it is the nature of capitalism. This phenomenon is particularly highlighted in services where it is difficult to increase labour productivity, and thus the desire to bring capital growth down by reducing labour costs is easily targeted at working conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u82	Mr President! Mr Kontula spoke just about what should be said when talking about zero-hour contracts and variable working hours contracts. It should be borne in mind precisely how many such young workers who seek to enter the labour market by all means, which may be at their first place of employment and are otherwise inexperienced, uncertain, are able to question legal interpretations of the terms of employment and, above all, as a result of the fact that no work can be found, not even the small number. And it is not possible to leave these matters — it was said here that we hope that these cases will be brought before the courts. There must be so much ambition in Parliament that things are properly prepared, clear and well-prepared legislation is drawn up, while the labour market works in so many ways that theory, practice and legislation are very often going at quite different paces. When said about temporary work, remember that temporary work in Finland, for example, is quite different from that in Sweden. Sweden is very strict in the use of temporary workers: there is an obligation to train when there is no job provision for temporary workers, and then there are these repeated periods of work. There is also a heavy obligation to make those fixed-term contracts valid for an indefinite period of time, and this applies specifically to temporary agency companies. There are good and bad temporary agency companies in Finland too, but quite a few companies do not pay the employee what they should pay for, and unfortunately, in those Fir-mos, it is precisely these failures that make it competitive. With regard to general economic development and the fact that legislation is trying to respond to economic and employment developments, Mr Roope Uusitalo, the President of the Economic Council, said that this economic development and the role of the government is more about sailing with luck than about the merit of the government, that decisions have actually been taken that can be combined with this economic development. And also what is the best way to measure what is happening in the labour market: it is precisely the hours worked in the national economy, the total hours worked, and their comparison with the corresponding period in previous years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u83	Madam President! This debate on zero-hour contracts, or variable working time, and now I find this excellent report by the committee quite confusing. It is clear that, when jobs are created on the market, the labour force becomes demand, that is clear, and today's new jobs will certainly be created in the small businesses that, fortunately, there are still a huge amount of jobs in this country. The direction in which Finnish Entrepreneurs have actively sought, among other things, in their own activities, is that more can be done about local reconciliation. Of course, then too, all the obligations of labour law and the rules laid down by laws and regulations are in force. There is no wild jungle, but there is legislation in force which must be respected in all companies. But it is also good to remember that these small companies, which certainly do not have the law firm behind them or, by the way, the huge capital behind them, for example, the representative, It is clear that such small employers certainly want the worker who is being hired to do valuable work for their company and thereby obtain the added value that will then even enable permanent employment. This is the beginning of all the great wisdom, in my opinion, to understand in this society that those small businesses are precisely the potential that will be able to solve this problem of unemployment in Finland. Imagine if half of the 170,000 small companies with fewer than five employees were to hire more than one employee in the next year, even if in practice the majority of our unemployment problem would have gone by then, because it would eliminate government spending enormously and then give them a new chance of genuinely having work to do. I know for a fact that many entrepreneurs secretly wish today that this local agreement, within the framework of existing laws, could be made more and more and thus create potential new jobs. Many self-employed persons or owners of small businesses today are really exhausted by their workload. They would be happy to see the situation that they too have a few employees and that they themselves sometimes have leisure time. I have heard the manager of many small businesses say personally to me that they hope that we can move forward here, that they too would like to take the summer vacation once it has been seven years so that no holiday has been able to take place. This, when we understand in this house that a small amount of contract freedom would be given to the field so that more and more could be made to agree locally between the employer and the employees in the company. Of course, those big collective agreements are behind it, and the terms of labour law, of course. But we should also trust those entrepreneurs who do this work with real merit and who employ people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u85	Mr President! I can see that some of the concepts have been mixed up in this debate. For example, some people here have talked about seasonal work, which is quite different from working on a zero-hour contract, and it is a little confusing because then those situations are different. Many have also pointed out that no employer deliberately works with zero-hour contracts. I very much appreciate Mr Suutar for admitting that there are such employers. One thing that would have improved the legal protection of workers would have been that the worker's representative would have been able to obtain information on the number of zero-contracters and the number of zero-agreements used in the workplace. That is what we were saying, but such a change to the government was not suitable for this bill. Mr President! However, the main concern in this matter is, as Mr Kontula has very well pointed out, that it is very unrealistic to think that those working on a zero-hour agreement would go to court and claim their rights. Knowing what the situation is at the workplace there, and when it may be that after the troubles, the hours run out completely, it is indeed unlikely that a worker who makes a zero - hour contract would go to court to claim these rights for himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u86	Mr President! There is a great deal of praise to be given to the young people who put this citizens' initiative in motion. After all, they have created the pressure that we are talking about here and they have created the pressure that the government has had to submit this bill, which has now come here from the committee. The demand of these young people has been described as radical, but so is the problem itself. That's a radical one, too. This time of uncertainty and putting all the flexibility on the workers and these young people is a radical problem. There have clearly been two different worlds in this debate. There is another world that looks at it from an entrepreneur's point of view, or now only a small part of them are entrepreneurs, a large part is a limited company-based activity with a normal employer — not a faceless employer, not a normal but faceless employer — and these two worlds have not met properly in this debate. The problem for a young worker is that all the flexibility comes to him, he has the zero-hour contract there. It is as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said here that such a person, who is on a zero-hour contract, is not the first person in the workplace who takes and cries out that I have been mistreated or goes to court. Anyone who has met these young people and listened to them knows what will happen after that. There's exactly that zero left in your contract, but there's no 40 or 35 or 30, no other hours, but there's that zero. In other words, these people are unable to claim reasonable treatment for themselves, nor are they able to defend their rights, the more they are required by the collective agreement, not to mention the need for additional working hours, so unfortunately some of these improvements are cosmetics. So this is not a savo project — it works in practice, but I wonder if it works on paper. This works on paper, but I doubt it will work in practice, and I have come to this conclusion when I have listened to these young people who have also come here to express their opinion. Then I see that there is still something to be said so that I move on to the floor. For the first time, I have to say that I have underestimated the use of time. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! When there has been a bigger debate on working life — representative The newspaper referred to the connection between this issue of the Youth Pact and the issue of the Zero Hours Agreement with the general commitment of collective agreements — so it must be said that when I listened to this speech, one Soviet state decision-makers who, in time, sprang to state that when the guilty one is known, the evidence will be found. In other words, that universality would be some reason why we have zero-hour contracts, it is impossible to see, because we have had this system of universality for five decades and it has been the most decades of working life without zero-hour contracts and it has been many years since we have actually had full employment. The minimum protection of collective agreements does not mean that employment cannot develop positively, as we have seen over several decades. The minimum protection, on the other hand, protects workers because the negotiating situation at the workplace is not equal, and this is 100 years old or even longer, the fact that, for a longer time, it is impossible for an individual worker — let alone young and just come to the workplace — to be free to negotiate his terms of employment, salary or hours of work with a large employer. And I don't think it's going to work for a bank clerk if he sits down with Björn Wahlroos and sets the terms and announces that this is the way it should be. That is why we have a minimum protection system and, agreed by the unions, if we meet together, we will be better able to take care of our affairs than we do by acting alone. As a result, I would say that this work must definitely continue, which is not the end result that we are now seeing, but is a small step towards recognising the problem but will require that we look at the whole labour chain. It then involves the conclusion of fixed-term contracts, the right of access to information for staff, to which reference has been made, and many other things. When it is said that the solution would be such a free settlement and local arrangement, then I just want to say in conclusion that zero-hour contracts have a perfect free settlement, i.e. can agree on a zero and can agree on some other number of hours if it is agreed upon, but it is not the solution to our employment problem better than brought these young people sufficient security so that they can view their future with confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u87	Madam President! I too think that this citizens' initiative is valuable and definitely needed. Of course, it is precisely through it that we have produced an important debate, perhaps a small step forward, but I agree exactly that this must not be the case. That is why it has been a shame — I am not in the Committee on Labour myself, but I have listened to these expert speeches that our representatives there have spoken — why is it now that the government parties are not able to catch up and finish this honourably in this Chamber as well? I have understood that it is not a very big thing, but it is something that should be carried out, to the end, so that these initiators can also be satisfied with the outcome. But, President-in-Office, I also agree with the views expressed here in several speeches on this working life, its insecurity and, in particular, the role of young people in it. When we know that already today, for example, precarious short-term jobs, zero-hour contracts are too much and much more commonplace for young people and women, that is why, in this context too, I would like to reflect this situation on the overall picture of the government's policy vis-à-vis working life. I think it is noteworthy that it was not enough for the government to have forced legislation, to have holiday allowances cutbacks, to have unemployment benefit cutbacks, to have active models, but it was a great disappointment that these unwarranted short-term jobs for young people, which are still being put on the table, were now being put on the table. In fact, I would say that this weakening of the protection against dismissal in companies with fewer than 20 employees is a kick law in practice. This does now too much to describe the government’s attitude in this work, with all its potential. As far as this weakening of the position of young people in the labour market is concerned, that is a serious matter. I find it terribly difficult to see why it is right of the government and the government parties that young people should have less job security. Do you really not see this serious connection with the way forward in its sense of security and life-planning, the importance of independence, the creation of a family here, with the constant increase in insecurity and insecurity in the labour market? I am also very concerned about this trend. I would like to say to the representatives of the centre, for example, that if you do not want to believe us in the opposition in these matters, I would like you to hear the views of the President of the Centre Youth, for example, who was appalled by these government proposals. There came a young person’s view of government performances
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u88	Madam President! The debate has been colorful and ployed, but I would like to address one issue, and that is the worker's legal security and the opportunity that Mr Kontula has raised here. This report and the government's proposal have brought an opportunity for assistance to the worker. When a dispute arises and there is disagreement, then which stock exchange will take more time to go to court? Is it the assistant's cash bag or the employee's cash bag to go against the employer to the district court — because it is most likely that it is an unorganised employer, in which case the disputes always go to the district court, not to the employment court, because it is not an organised employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u91	Mr President! I do wonder what this criticism of the opposition has been made to the government on these issues of birth. If we look at which countries actually have a high birth rate, then they are countries with low wages, low levels of education, non-existent social security, gender inequality and poor access to health services, and I believe that the government has worked hard to get us into this situation. The difference is whether the birth rate at all is something we should be concerned about. If we continue with climate action at this rate, we will have such a number of climate refugees that our dependency ratio will be resolved in a way that is not self-made. But for this situation it would be very important for us to have strong labour market rules in this country before a significant part of our working-age population comes from the rest of the culture unaccustomed to our labour market, and this zero-copper debate is part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u92	Madam President! Mr Myllykoski has made an incredible claim here that it is the non-organised employers who are typical of the worker's mutilators and, therefore, they will be brought to justice. I strongly deny this. Every study of labour market climates has shown that the best atmosphere is precisely in small enterprises, and most of all of these small enterprises are not organised. In other words, this is nonsense that it is the representatives of small businesses who will come, but it is the practice that shows it. I hope there will be some. According to this proposal, if a contract of employment is concluded, it is not legal if, for example, the employer has a need for a full-time employee, and that is why I believe — even though, on the left side of this Chamber, there is no trust in Finnish law and its improvement in working life — that these trials will still occur. There is no bigger discussion, at least among entrepreneurs, than what has happened in court proceedings relating to working life, and that is what always changes and promotes it in working life. At least I trust that it is the Finnish trial that is one of the parties to improve working life in accordance with the law. And if the law is not observed, I do not believe that anyone will be watching it here in Finland for a very long time. I think everyone is entitled to go to court, and if there is someone who is afraid to go to trial, then surely someone else will — at least from experience — dare. So surely there are those who do not claim their rights, but fortunately there are those who do. The citizens' initiative was indeed necessary. In retrospect, it is precisely this bill of the government that it cumulates. And this regulation of Finnish working life will not be left to this, but we will also follow this, and I am sure we will then correct it, and it will take into account both the social partners and then the Finnish society, how it will survive in the future. So this bill is not perfect, but it cannot now be compared to, for example, an uninhibited disease, so to put it in Kainuu. Yes, it's been handled. So the improvement is coming here, and I believe in a Finnish trial. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u93	Mr President! I have not myself taken a stand in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on this government proposal before us, but in this context I am raising the guidelines of the Finnish people who are involved in this government proposal. The Finns themselves consider it a good thing that part-time work can be offered flexibly to groups of employees such as students who want part-time work themselves. This will enable us to respond better to the challenges facing both society and working life. On the other hand, however, the proposed provisions are insufficient to address the shortcomings in the use of variable working time contracts. The Finns Party also welcomes the fact that the present proposal can, at least in part, respond to the so-called matching problem faced by the various companies, which have a strong impact on the labour market in the past, as well as by the various skilled jobseekers. The Finns also welcome the development that the possibility of providing flexible part-time working time is still preserved in the palette of working life at the same time as the practical problems identified are addressed. However, we see that this government proposal also contains problems that can lead to abuse of the workforce. Indeed, the target group for regulation is limited to a limited number of part-time workers, which puts different part-time workers in a different position. This is the kind of development that we consider harmful in Finnish society. The so-called 'flexibility elements' previously identified in the present government proposal lose their purpose because of the possibility of a new agreement. All part-time workers should have such a one-off additional work consent removed for the sake of equality. Mr President! In view of the above-mentioned problems and shortcomings, the Finns have therefore objected in committee in connection with the report. True Finns want to encourage government reforms that serve the interests of both employees and employers. When these interests are met, reforms serve the interests of the whole country. Mr President! I'll end here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u94	Mr President! First of all, I welcome the fact that a balanced solution has been found which the government has brought to this House, and I believe that this is in order. As far as these objections are concerned, I would suggest a development proposal that, when the opposition here has consistently opposed all the reforms in the world of work that have taken place during this parliamentary term... [Interjection from left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u97	Mr President! I think that although Parliament's information service is good and excellent, it is not able to do this job, as Mr Satonen has put forward here, because not even the Ministry has carried out any studies on the impact of these reforms on employment, and at the time when the laws have been brought here, it has been found very difficult to assess their impact on employment. There's a lot of things going on at the same time. As far as employment is concerned, I would like the government to be prepared to explain why our number of hours worked has fallen compared to one year ago. If we look at this early year, employment will generally improve when more hours of work are created in this society. But compared with one year ago, statistics show that the number of hours worked has decreased. This may indicate that jobs have been created in quantitative terms, but some of them have been fragmented. We will not know this until that matter has been clarified. But we know that the number of fixed-term contracts has increased, the number of part-time contracts has increased, the number of fixed-term part-time contracts has increased. This is explained by the statistics we currently have. But as has also been shown in this debate, we are talking about seasonal work, part-time work, job work. I've never heard the term part-time work before. I hope someone tells me what it means. But what has been good about the citizens' initiative behind this legislation is that it made visible and raised the problem of zero agreements to a wider sense. In fact, the zero-hour contracts have been the everyday solution, which has, as it were, combined both gig work and part-time work as well as variable-time work and has been the subject of a zero-time contract. Locally, it would have been wise to agree on how to use this working time. But reality shows us that we have not used the other basis of legislation, but have started to circumvent the laws that we have in our working life, such as the pay for sick periods, the procedures for dismissal or the right to family leave. They have not been implemented within these zero-hour contracts as they already existed under current legislation. That is why we need more precise legislation. There is no doubt that this law has a good purpose, and no one wants to bring this down. I have at least understood that there has been no motion for rejection of this law in this Chamber, but instead attempts have been made to make improvements, and they are reflected in protests that have specified and, in some respects, even improved the status of the worker. When we in the committee heard experts, I have never had an expert hearing before, where two professors of labour law in a row say that this law should be reinstated and this only employs lawyers. Their assessment was based on the fact that there are great promises here at text level, but then, when you look at the passages, they too, as if the fulfillment of the promises were less. It is sad if this is being implemented, because this is a good intention, because these articles are rather vague and difficult to interpret. But that is why I hope that we can have the next round where they will be specified when we see the contradiction that has arisen from these interpretations in living life. If you think that the objective of the law is the one that is right that variable working hours should be justified, then working time may vary if it is based on work reasons, then here we are on the right path. But from the point of view of worker protection, we are in a rather thin situation, because the worker can wish his contract of employment to be revised in accordance with the actual working time, i.e. according to the working time that has taken place in living life, but there is not much more than a hand to this. The worker can hope, and the employer can say that it will not be checked, and it will then be there if we do not go to court after that. That is what we would have liked to see more precise rules of the game, how, as it were, that working time is interpreted in these situations, which is the established working time, according to which we should go if the contract has a very large fork for hours of work, but actually we have a very long time of fixed working time. This is gonna get a little thin. But I believe that at some point we will be able to make further progress and clarification. Another thing that improves in the law is that if hours are specified in the schedule, they will be paid sickness pay. That is what this law guarantees. I believe that this would have been the case with our legislation so far, but it is now expressly laid down here for the zero-hour contract. However, the problems arise after this if the worker’s illness is long, because if, for example, working hours have been defined for 10 to 40 hours and the worker has been working for six months on a regular basis without any exception for 38 weeks, then he will still be compensated on the basis of 10 hours because the legislation requires more than four times the minimum working time to be worked for six months in order to pay a higher amount or to be obliged to pay a higher amount than that zero or that minimum number of hours. We're on quite an unreasonable path here, aren't we? I understand that there should be some consolidation up, but four times the six-month period is too high. It leads to a part of the fork never being filled, because you never get to that fourfold amount, even if you keep working a full day. If you look at unemployment security, you can get better but not enough, because this new law now determines that if you have been on a zero-hour contract for three months or — as this has now been well re-appointed — a variable working time contract at work, but hours have been zero or less than what entitles you to an adjusted daily allowance, then three months must wait before such an employment relationship can be separated. If the hours are zero and you have to work for three months at zero hours before you can resign without being more painless in getting into unemployment benefit, then it is quite an unreasonable waiting period. This too could have been done with a somewhat shorter waiting period, and then perhaps in return to bring the employer security in the event that the employee resigns without the employer having changed the number of hours or significantly reduced them. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u98	Mr President! I was inspired by this speech by Mrs Myllykoski, in which she focused on a couple of stilistic details, mainly on whether, in the event of a dispute over zero-hour contracts, an assistant can be used or whether it should be a shop steward. In his speech, Myllykoski also spoke of local agreement. Now that, in fact, today, I have been elected as an alternate member of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u114	Mr President! A few comments to Mr Satonen, who may not have listened to the initial debate when arriving late in the Chamber, and who knows exactly what I was talking about in my protest. The situation is that, when we adopt this law here, we have two forms of contract regulating part-time work, in which even a ministry official could find no other difference than that one can go to zero-level contracts, i.e. zero-hours, and that the other can be given eternal consent, i.e. up to retirement age, for additional work, while the other requires that consent be given for a short period of time at a time. These are the differences between the two agreements. In terms of frequency and flexibility, there is no difference in these agreements as such, since in both cases the minimum number of hours, the minimum number of hours to which both the employee and the employer commit themselves, is legally important and binding. From this up, all hours worked in each of the contract models are considered additional work, work requiring special consent, and they are effectively treated in the same way. My interpretation is that we have had two models of agreement that are so close to each other because of the fact that the zero treaty problem was started to be resolved through a very complex and multi-installed process, which is, as it were, a question of a hama that was born by accident and which practically does no one any good. I find it difficult to see how the entrepreneur benefits from having a slightly more complex labour law. I am sure that the employee will not benefit from it. I do not know whether it will then benefit an authority which will have more of these knots to settle, but the general objective should be that legislation should aim at simplicity and comprehensibility, so that as many citizens as possible have the opportunity to adapt and understand what is said in that law. For this reason, I cannot see why this provokes so much indignation that this is being expressed. Nor do I see, as Mr Satonen suspected, that the cost of this reform would be other than, of course, the cost that will be incurred every time laws are reviewed, corrected and regulated here in the legislative bodies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u116	Mr President! I asked to speak on behalf of Mr Satonen when Mr Satonen criticised the opposition's opposition to all the proposals. Mr Satonen felt that the opposition was also opposed to this government's proposal. However, I have heard many speeches here on the part of the opposition stating that this government proposal is an improvement in itself and that it is not proposed to reject it. So I'd ask for some precision there, too, on the side of the government parties. What has been said in this debate by colleagues about the impact of insecurity in working life on the lives of young people and about the fact that more and more people, especially young people, are in employment relationships where the future seems very uncertain, I would like to add that Finland has seen an increase in the emigration of highly educated people in particular. Just a moment ago, I noticed a news report that only a quarter of Finnish students studying abroad consider it possible to return to work in Finland. In other words, this job insecurity is not just a life-stricken and insecure issue for young people who are not trained or low-skilled, but is targeted at people at all levels of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u117	Mr President! After a review of the statistics here and a surprising finding that hours worked have decreased by 0.4 percent, the same statistics showed that the number of unemployed over a year has decreased by 26.2 percent. I think that is a positive point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u122	Madam President! The Finns of Peru, as indicated in that previous speech by Mr Immonen, also see this as a very right step. That has already been the starting point in this debate on the zero-hour contract that it seems wonderful that a contract of employment does not, as it were, correspond to reality and the real need for labour. That cannot be the case, and that is why this citizens' initiative was also very popular. It's not in some way... As a lawyer, I even think that from the outset it would probably have had reason to take the case-law in such a direction that these zero-hour contracts have not been drawn up to the extent they are currently being concluded. However, when we are talking here about protecting the status of worker, it is quite right, therefore, that labour law is based on defending the weaker party, and it is often the worker, especially when it comes to the bigger companies that conclude these zero-hour contracts. They are done quite a lot by our shops, the K-Group and the S-Group, for example, and the situations are such that at least I have often wondered why these are being done. When it has been said here that, in the final analysis, it will then go to the Court of Justice, it must be remembered that all legal and labour disputes will ultimately go to labour law or to the District Court. But it's true that there's still no way to give it a lure, and here it's a little hung up on it now. When negotiating, as we know, even in that negotiating situation, the worker is in principle in a weaker position than the larger employer. That is why it is a good thing that the emphasis was added to the law that it has the right to use an assistant. Mr Satose's speech has to be commented on, because I too thought it was quite inspiring. I always feel a little divisive when talking about these good achievements of the government, because they are good achievements of the government in which the Finns of Finland participated. Obviously, no one has suggested that employment and the economy grow in this way, as in one night, for the better. But despite the fact that we, the Finns of Peru, are not again glowing about this government's incredible economic performance, as Mr. Satonen did in that very categorical way, it is because it is not really true that we are realists in this matter. In other words, this is the economic cycle and Finland as an export-driven country, the economy has gone for the better because of the euro and the dollar and so on, so that, unfortunately, it is not just because of our basic Finnish government, this economic growth, although there has certainly been good results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u123	Mr President! As far as this issue of the Zero Pact is concerned, I admit that the opposition has not been categorically opposed, and it is good that we have been quite close to each other. And as Mr Suutari described well here, and also the previous speaker, these relate mainly to these situations, that there is a large employer, and to the practices that exist in the area of commerce, for example. Instead of what Mr Tavio said last time, I personally do not believe. It is true that the world economy is doing well and exports are doing well, but if we had not improved our own competitiveness, we would not be in this situation. Much of the jobs created in the private sector have been created by small enterprises and have an undeniable impact on the employer’s risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u126	Mr President! For Mr. Satonen, I would like to sum up: In the Left Alliance, we have agreed so in relation to the government's proposals, we have a very clear line that we are in favour of good proposals and we are against bad proposals, and this also applies to labour policy. Personally, I have been promoting and thanking in this Chamber, among other things, when the government decided to make it easier to study with unemployment benefit when the government decided to improve the social security of an entrepreneur, and I have also praised this zero-sapontaneous performance here — I think it is the third time today that you are doing so. This policy is very simple. If the government decided to make more of those good proposals, we would then have more praise, but so far it has had to cope with what has been achieved. To Mr Suutari, I would remind you that the statistics on the long-term unemployed at this particular moment are terribly unreliable because the first interviews for these periodic interviews are still ongoing. Among the long-term unemployed who have left the statistics is my brother-in-law, who has been working for years but has forgotten to report it to the TE Office and has so far been there as a long-term unemployed person. No one has just remembered him asking or asking because he has not received unemployment benefit, and there are many other cases. That's why it's hard to use those statistics. Personally, I am, of course, pleased if the number of long-term unemployed has decreased, and it may well be that it has. In general terms, it should be remembered that we already have a lot more room for local reconciliation than our companies actually use in their own workplace culture. If you think of a construction sector that I know a little better about, then if you look at TES, there are a lot of different possibilities for flexibility in working time, there are all possibilities for family attention, but they do not seem to go there for companies, because there is no climate of trust in the business culture, which, for example, apparently in Sweden allows for a local agreement far more widely than here. I do not believe that this is understood. If it is not possible to use the instruments of local reconciliation that are already in use there,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u129	Madam President! The next time I take my bag and go into that doorknob, I will leave this Chamber when there does not seem to be the next request to speak at Mr Suutari. But once again, to this dispute: I would like you to understand that when it comes to where you fight, it is daring to challenge a case when it is more equal in economic terms than in small businesses. I am not saying at all that small and medium-sized enterprises operate in an immoral manner and therefore become more. Zero-job contracts are being awarded specifically to larger companies — since we no longer have very large companies, with more than 1 000 or 2 000 employees — so that, in principle, we should not put big companies and small and medium-sized enterprises against small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is precisely SMEs who employ them. We in the Left Alliance want to promote the recruitment of SMEs, the first employee of sole proprietors, or to create models that could even facilitate 100% in the first year, 70% in the following year, 30% in the third year, so that companies can and dare better hire people. This has been included in our own draft budget. We want employers to have the opportunity to hire employees, but that is not what this is about; it is not worth fighting over who is doing and how prudently we are. I am just talking about my own experience, the ten-year head of confidence experience and the experience of the six-year Union of Metalworkers in terms of terms and conditions of employment, what these disputes are like. I can honestly say that when they go down the road of the district court, there has been a sudden unconsidered dismissal, while in the organized employers' circles and where there are shop stewards, there will be reconciliations at the workplace so that they do not necessarily go to the employment court. The fact that a person dares to challenge means that he must have equal financial opportunities to argue with his employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u130	Mr President! As has been said on several occasions here today from both the government and the opposition, this bill does indeed clarify and improve the legislation on so-called zero-hour contracts, at least a little bit. It has also been said here that there has been some improvement in employment during this parliamentary term. It is, of course, difficult to say how much of this is due to the good decisions taken by Parliament, particularly during the first half of the parliamentary term, and then to what extent the overall positive momentum of the global economy is the main factor in improving employment. Personally, I believe that this good spirit of the world economy has had at least the same impact as the decisions taken by Parliament. Mr President! On the other hand, the general fragmentation of working life and employment relationships is also part of a development which, unfortunately, makes it difficult for many people in work to have their daily lives and long-term planning. This applies not only to young people, but also to those who are a little older. It is also partly due to the fact that the rules of the labour market have been very unclear to date, particularly with regard to these zero-hour contracts, and this draft law unfortunately still leaves some of the problems unresolved. It is therefore not fully in line with the desire expressed earlier in the citizens' initiative to improve the position of the weaker party to employment, particularly in cases where the employer is a large company which sometimes even treats its employees as faceless. On the other hand, smaller companies tend to treat their staff quite well. Mr President! On a general level, the Finnish people's line is that reforms are needed in the future that will facilitate the creation of companies and the recruitment of new employees. An example of what we have already done is the introduction of a work account model. This would significantly reduce the bureaucracy associated with the creation of new businesses. Secondly, I would like to highlight the introduction of a business tax model that encourages investment in Estonia in SMEs employing new staff. Mr President! Finally, I agree with the view that the active model, which came into force at the turn of the year, mistreats a person who has entered into a zero-hour contract but does not receive sufficient working hours during the three-month period in order to avoid cutting the active model. It is totally unacceptable that a person who is constantly available to the labour market and even has entered into an employment contract may, without his own fault, be subject to an active model cut. There must be a quick change to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u131	Madam President! I would like to say to Mr Kontula that the Left Alliance supports good government proposals and opposes bad government proposals: I have such a view that the Left Alliance is probably not the best judge to judge what are good government proposals and what are bad government proposals when, in principle, I think that the Government does not make bad government proposals at all, but that the Government's proposals are all good ones. Perhaps in what the Left Alliance sees as bad government proposals, it does not want to see the positive effects of the government's proposal, such as lowering the recruitment threshold, facilitating dismissal for personal reasons, which in practice works to lower the recruitment threshold and thereby reduce the risk of an entrepreneur hiring a new workforce. That is the purpose of this proposal, and I understand that the Left-wing Alliance is also opposed to this proposal, which, however, has a significant positive impact on society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u132	Mr President! In reply to Mr Kontula, when you mentioned that we have opportunities to conclude local agreements, but the Finnish working climate, that is to say, this lack of confidence, would prevent them from being made: I would argue, however, that the climate of trust in Finland does not prevent those who are banned from making this local agreement. In other words, the smallest companies which do not belong to the social partners do not have the opportunity to agree on working time, for example. When many examples have been used here, I myself thought of setting an example which the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities is well aware of, i.e. inland waterway vessels providing restaurant services. Seamen Union prevents them from operating in such a way that they can provide those restaurant services with normal pay, but they must be provided with overtime pay, because the sailor Union has defined its normal working hours before 5 p.m., and then the excess is overtime. That is why the employees of inland waterway vessels providing restaurant services work overtime at the time of the restaurant services, and it is through them that contracts are concluded when they cannot be agreed there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u133	Mr President! Mr Turuseen: we have not yet, in the left-wing union, laid down a government proposal that has not been brought here, but we will certainly be critical of this weakening of the protection against dismissal, because the idea that all work under all circumstances would be a good thing at any cost is simply not sustainable. It is not sustainable from an economic point of view and it is not sustainable from a human point of view, nor is it in the interests of companies that would like to do business from an economic and humanly sustainable point of view. At the same time as increasing employment in this system, which, of course, is desirable and objective in itself, attention must also be paid to the quality of employment relationships, the types of employment they produce, the total cost of the national economy, whether it pays for the job created or whether it saves money from something, and then to the indirect effects, such as income differences and other similar factors. I would just like to say to Mr Suutari that for almost ten years now I have been looking for a company that would invite me to take a look at their situation and show them a situation in which the employee and employer, as they wish, cannot agree with each other, because our regulatory agencies are somehow preventing it. I have found a single example in these years — even on the radio, I have asked for examples, many times in this Chamber — and then the key factor in that case too was the absence, not our legislation on terms of employment. If you are able to set such an example for me, at any time I will go along with that attempt to get to know and I promise to reconsider my views on these matters afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u134	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u135	Madam President! This government proposal is in itself a worthy objective of streamlining and streamlining the process. The objective of getting things resolved more quickly must be supported, but, as we pointed out earlier in the proceedings, we believe that these objectives are being sought by a little special means, as if with the pardon of the offender elsewhere, so that he does not have to personally come to the court to answer for his crime or to hear his conviction. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have often expressed concerns about the status of victims in particular. We have constantly encountered problems, why it is not possible that the victim does not have to come to court, and that is why it is extraordinary that it is now possible for this offender to be excluded from the right to answer for what he has done and that the victim must be in court. That is why we consider it important not to give up the demand for the defendant’s presence altogether. According to the law, the conduct of the defendant can be taken into account as part of the evidence of the trial in the District Court. There is, therefore, also a risk of more unjust convictions from the point of view of the offender. That is why we tabled an amendment in accordance with the objection. It was put to the vote and the rest is history, but I still wanted to bring these shortcomings to the Minutes at this reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u136	Madam President! True Finns have considered it very important that villains should be brought to justice personally — I used a little of this unfair term here, but for a reason. However, from the point of view of these plaintiffs and witnesses, the Finns of Peru consider it to be a quite reasonable line that the trial should not be cancelled because the defendant fails to show up. In this regard, we would have sought a slightly different solution in accordance with this objection, and we would not have gone to risk that judicial process because, in principle, the defendant will not always appear at all in these crimes of less than five years. This argument as to why the government is now doing this, making it easier to conduct legal proceedings in the presence of a mere lawyer, all of this has to do with the big picture of the government moving ahead with its judicial policy in the first place. I am very concerned about the fact that these various government proposals have been discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, that the trend is constantly to make savings in the form of reforms, while human legal protection is being undermined. Unfortunately, even in this proposal, legal certainty is also weakened, that is, the goal of material truth, inter alia, because the defendant's presence in the district court is also part of the evidence of that case. It is very important whether, for example, the defendant has already paid damages to the plaintiff, for example, or whether the defendant shows up in a very disrespectful manner. Yes, it is of great importance. This has been a centuries-old tradition, perhaps even a millennium, that the defendant personally comes to justice for his actions. There, too, psychologically, the defendant will then have to face the consequences of his actions. On the other hand, it also seems unreasonable for the victim that the victim should be brought to the district court, even if by force but the offender no longer has to come there. However, this government proposal contained a whole, which is why I did not propose to reject it, because there were also progressive issues, such as increasing the use of video, which the Finns of Finland consider very important,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u137	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u138	Mr President! I was unable to take the floor at first reading, so at this second reading I would like to comment on this draft law, mainly on the points of contact for summary cases. A reform of the district court network is under way to reduce the number of district courts. In addition, the administration of the judicial system is undergoing reform with the Court of Justice Office, which is being set up. Only after these reforms would there have been better conditions for assessing the profitability and ways of implementing the concentration of summary matters and for carrying out any changes in a controlled manner. The distance from the District Courts of North Karelia and North Savo to Kouvola is over 300 kilometers. This change in law means more than 20 person-years in the court district of Eastern Finland moving outside the current working area and from Joensuu to Kouvola. After this concentration, no district court dealing with summary cases will be located in the area of Eastern Finland. It would have made sense if the summarizing cases of the District Courts of North Karelia and North Savo were to continue to be dealt with at the District Court of North Karelia. This would have meant that the district courts of Kymenlaakso and North Karelia would have about 30,000 cases per year. By comparison, there are about 20,000 things in Oulu and 35,000 in Ostrobothnia. The concentration of summary matters at the District Court of North Karelia would have been in favour of many things. Among other things, dealing with matters at the District Court of North Karelia has been very effective. The processing time has been two months, which is well below the average national processing time. Electronic practices have been actively developed at the District Court of North Karelia. But the most important strength is the professional and enthusiastic staff. The transfer cannot be justified by the premises either, as the North Karelia District Court would have the most modern and exclusive facilities in Finland for dealing with these activities. So I am very disappointed with this bill. Mr President! Now that we are talking here about matters of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to send my regards to the Minister of Justice for the adoption of an investment decision by the Court of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has made an investment comparison according to which all the regions are too far away and the locations outside the capital region are almost impossible. In other words, according to this proposal, Joensuu, Vaasa and Rovaniemi are so remote and far from everything that a court office cannot be located there. It is very difficult for me to understand this if, for example, we compare the matter with what is now under discussion, where the distances seem to have no meaning. I am very disappointed at the attitude of this government towards regions and regional policy. After all, we keep coming here with proposals which completely ignore the justified proposals for regionalisation. Eastern Finland in particular seems to the government to be an impossible place for any activity. I hope that the Minister of Justice will still consider the role of the Court of Justice and will not accept the findings of the working group as such. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u139	Madam President! Representative Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised an important issue about this seat of the Court of Justice. I personally see this as a whole when we talk about these concentrations of summarizing rights, that the more state jobs are concentrated in a wider area in such a way that they have a central place somewhere perhaps hundreds of kilometres away, as is going to happen here, and when these district courts have already been significantly reduced in the past and when you look at this situation, then we will be reduced from areas such as the necessary state jobs, what companies need to support their own operations. The attraction that exists in the region as a result of these state jobs is weakening, and it also reduces companies' ability to access services at a close distance and also weakens companies' desire to enter those regions to start new businesses and take jobs forward and keep Finland inhabited.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u140	Madam President! This is where the previous representatives made good speeches. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out the plight of Eastern Finland with this presentation. In line with this government's proposal, the increase in e-services is to be welcomed in itself, but at the same time a reform of the district court network is being carried out to reduce the number of district courts from 27 to 20, and while the administration of the judicial system is still undergoing reform with the new judicial office, it would be sensible first to complete these reforms and build on experience of effectiveness, and then to better assess the concentration of summary cases, its profitability and ways of implementation. It would make sense to implement the changes in a controlled manner. In its opinion, the Ombudsman's Office also raised concerns about the potential problem of the realisation of linguistic rights. The proposal seems to result in additional costs rather than savings, and we believe that these costs are inadequately estimated in this government proposal. The Registration Centre has also considered that the centralisation of summary cases requires significant changes to the Tuomas information system used by the courts. This change together with the changes required by the district court reform, which will come into force from the beginning of 2019, poses a significant risk of disruption of operations. We tried by way of amendments in our protest to prevent these risks from being realised. Sadly, the government did not have the necessary calm and orderlyness, but this performance was dashed through in haste. We really hope that this chaos in the localities will not interfere with people's legal systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u141	Mr President! Indeed, the maintenance of public employment in regional cities is of course important. After all, the Audit Committee raised this issue in the Savonlinna case, and perhaps this regional town survey, the programme that is going on. We are aware of these austerity pressures, but in the area of the Ministry of Justice we should also look at this from this point of view. I'll take another thing. At present, the opinion has been cut back on enforcement offices, which was dropped to 64. There is little reference to this digitalisation, which was mentioned above. On the other hand, digitalisation specifically enables services to be decentralized in those regions, especially at the borders of the provinces. For example, when it comes to enforcement, I must not go too far when there is no need to do so when things can also be handled digitally as efficiently. But there's already been some savings on the enforcement side. That is not yet the case here in Parliament, and I do not know whether it will come during this parliamentary term, but I also understand this question: Justice Minister Häkkänen must look at these public jobs from this point of view too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u142	Madam President! The Finns of Peru are of the opinion that, when the reform of the district court network is just about to come and come about, it would have been justified that this new concentration of monetary matters would no longer have been carried out with it in this way. In particular, it is once again questionable that this is being presented as a purely judicial austerity policy, but there are no calculations that would give a convincing impression that this would result in savings. If we had thought further, as was originally intended here, that everything should be placed in just one district court, then my logic would have made more savings — that is, if you believed that those savings would have been made. But here we are, in the idea of concentration, and you can ask whether it will be a saving when, on the other hand, they will be able to work in other localities and not everyone will necessarily go to Helsinki, the capital region, to work. There are no calculations, and that is why this is very tragic for the government that reforms are constantly being driven in such a way that savings are promised, but then no savings can be shown. It appears that more costs will be incurred when new information systems are being created. In the information system sector, digitalisation, that savings come entirely from its digitalisation itself, so that savings would probably have been made in a long run in any case when digitalisation is carried out and more when summarizing things is actually delivered electronically, and then they can also be dealt with more quickly in some way. But the fact that this in itself will become savings, that jobs will be moved, does not seem very credible. In addition, on the side of some district courts, a model was also presented in which all these summary matters would have progressed along one line of work, then it would have been treated equally around Finland. There are still such regional differences, which, of course, will not go away even if the regional differences are reduced. As far as the contentious cases are concerned, then, of course, they will have to be dealt with by jurisdiction, regionally, and then perhaps there will not be a great deal of centralisation. We're a little sorry as basic Finns that these savings don't come anywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u143	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 2/2018 vp. Presentation by Mr Heinäluoma, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u144	Mr President! The National Audit Office has submitted its separate report to Parliament on fiscal surveillance for 2017. This is a new framework that was created in the world after the financial crisis and the financial crisis in the Greek State in 2010. New provisions in the European Union were needed after it had proved that the Greek case had been conducted not only on the basis of outdated but also clearly misinformation, but also on the basis of the information available to the European Union and other EU Member States on the management of fiscal policy, which was neither adequate nor correct. As a result, the reform package or packages introduced, inter alia, force such independent government fiscal surveillance and its reporting to legislative bodies. This fiscal surveillance report contains an estimate of compliance with fiscal policy rules and the achievement of the Board’s objectives for 2017 and 2018. The Audit Office estimates that, despite the improved economic situation, the budgetary position of general government will not improve in line with the Government’s objectives during the current parliamentary term. Above all, this is based on the fact that the State finances are being strengthened more slowly than they were intended to be, according to the report. It is clear that the information available will then lead to slightly more positive conclusions. This assessment by the Audit Office is based on the business cycle forecast of the Ministry of Finance in autumn 2017. The Agency has considered it important to continue to reduce the sustainability gap and that this be done through structural reforms. At the same time, the Agency has come to the conclusion that the Government’s targets for reducing the sustainability gap in relation to social and regional reform in the spring 2017 are, however, reasonably uncertain in terms of sustainability, and this view was confirmed in the committee’s consultation. It is difficult to conclude from what has been said so far that this reduction in the 3 billion sustainability gap, which has been achieved by means of the social welfare reform, would be achieved by any degree of certainty. On the other hand, there are risks that there may also be significant additional expenditure here, particularly in the coming years. It is important, according to the Agency, that growth and consistent fiscal policies are pursued, and the committee agrees with this basic approach and shares it on the basis of its own commitment. In compliance with fiscal policy rules, the observation is that the framework has worked as intended and that is what the government's decisions have complied with. After all, Parliament has also received separate information about this in the framework of the framework. There has also been a special debate on one item of expenditure concerning the inclusion of YLE in the spending limits. The committee clearly states that the absence of YLE from spending limits is a well-founded solution in order to ensure the independence of YLE. This has no cost implications, since these transfers have taken place in a neutral way. In this respect, the temporary transfer to the spending limits and then the removal of the spending on the public radio have been neutral decisions and have not affected the size of the spending limits. In the past, the Audit Committee has drawn attention to the fact that EU fiscal rules are not very transparent. So this is a little something to say. The structure is rather complex and difficult to interpret in advance from the outside, and it has created a reasonably vague framework of interpretation within which discretion is exercised, and then this term of structural fiscal residue, which is rather theoretical and which then constitutes one of the limits imposed on economic policy. However, it should be noted that, in the current economic situation, this objective of the structural residue does not constitute a barrier to fiscal policy in Finland. I will return to this social reform. This is the most important of the individual factors and the success of reducing the sustainability gap is particularly important. The committee will give its own opinion on social welfare reform and freedom of choice to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and assess the economic impact and risks it has received in this context. However, implementation and how in practice things are taken forward are also important. Not all things are about the points; it is also about leadership. The Committee considers it important that Finland also has the capacity to prepare for future regressions. The disturbance in the market economy has not finally ended. It is to be expected that further disruptions will also occur after the financial crisis of 2008. They may come from the financial system or from the functioning of the economy. This also underlines the need, in the committee's thinking, to ensure that adequate buffers are also provided for possible future setbacks. The committee has devoted a great deal of time specifically to assessing these risks. That is an important part of the work of the Parliamentary Audit Committee. It is important that the risks are assessed in relation to Finland’s public finances with current data and the management of public finances. This concerns both central government finances and local government finances. In its spring 2017 report, the committee already drew attention to the impact of a possible rise in interest rates and a fairly certain future increase. In the short term, monetary policy has been the single most important factor in supporting Finland’s growth. Once there has been a call for exports, monetary policy has also made it possible to invest and keep interest costs low for companies. Of course, this is also reflected in household activities and housing markets. However, it is obvious that interest rates have supported the rise in stock prices and may also be seen in some countries as an increase in house prices, perhaps to some extent also in Finland. This is a risk of asset price bubbles being created, and economic policy must also have the ability to prepare for this. Then it is also important that, if necessary, fiscal policy is able to withstand the shocks that come from here. Then it goes without saying that, with interest rates rising, the rise in loan management costs, both for the state and for the municipalities, can also represent a considerable part of the rising expenditure in the coming years in euros. The Committee considers it important that these risks be carefully assessed and taken into account in the preparation of economic policy. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u145	Madam President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, presented this report in a good and varied way. I would really like to point out here that when the National Audit Office makes its own report on the success of fiscal policy, it is facing a challenge in a certain way in terms of the fact that the information wants to change quite quickly. The forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, like other economic forecasts, are quite much at macro level, and they should perhaps also better monitor what is happening here at company level and elsewhere. Economic development has been better than the idea of this report. That is, of course, a good thing. The situation in local government finances is also good, perhaps exceptionally good. It is also affected by the competitiveness pact, but there are other factors: the central government shares of municipalities have not been cut, and that is, of course, a good thing. Risks must be identified at all times, which is the most important task of the Audit Committee and also an important role in this financial supervision. That interest rate may be a risk — I do not think it is such a risk — and the other, of course, is the situation in the world economy. Finland must also bear in mind that, as has been seen, financial crises always occur before long. In that respect too, the Finnish economy must be in such a condition that we can bear the risks, so that we do not end up on the path of continuous cuts, from which we have now been saved during this government period, but almost already there during the last government term. I am a little concerned, Mr President, when you follow the public debate, even if it is the May Day speech or the opposition's proposals, which are already going for billions of dollars in the next parliamentary term. Now, however, we should be patient everywhere, and if there are additions, they must be proportionate to the carrying capacity of the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u146	Madam President! The committee has produced a good report here, and there are many important points to consider. I have been preoccupied many times lately with this sustainability gap, its patching up, and mainly with these certain uncertainties that are linked to it. The social security system mentioned here and its uncertainties are indeed worrying. We have also made it clear in the various committees in this parliamentary debate that there are, first of all, clear financial gaps. We do not really know how certain financial matters will be organised. Sometimes I get the feeling that this government does not want to shoulder its responsibilities, but deliberately pushes certain forms of funding into the hands of the next government. Then this estimated EUR 3 billion: the more you think about this, the more uncertain it becomes, because a lot of experts have just said that this goal of controlling the increase in costs of EUR 3 billion, EUR 3 billion, will simply not hold. On the contrary, costs can arise, and it is clear that in the short term very much and in part even in the longer term. In this respect, of course, the situation is worrying, and when we know, however, that it will not be so easy in the years to come, I would therefore have expected that, in this context, when the government brings its own proposals for social welfare reform here, these cost implications would also have been further analysed and followed up. This is also what the National Audit Office has been talking about along the way. President! However, attention has now also been paid to the fact that economic growth, accompanied by a world wind, has been a little faster than anticipated here and, as a result, the situation is currently slightly better. That is why it comes to the question of what is happening at the moment with regard to this slightly better situation. The fact is that, although growth should belong to everyone, unfortunately, the value choices of this government have been such that this is not the case. So I'm a little worried when the government has had enough tax cuts, for example, for the tax cuts in millions of inheritances or for the owners of large forest holdings, the wealthiest ones, there's plenty of money there, but then when it's just the average pensioner's turn, the unemployed, the student, the children's family, then there's only cuts ahead and the wallet has been lightened. This has become a lot of feedback and concern from people, and yes, I have talked to many people — as they have come along the way to ask — how the growth is now visible when it was the other way around. For example, many pensioners have felt in their purse that the government has even cut pensions during this period and, overall, weakened basic security, contrary to what was promised before the elections. That is what I would like to say, and many others have also spoken about whether there has been a great deal in this fiscal situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u147	Mr President! It is clear that there are always risks in public finances. It is important that they are identified, it is important that they are managed. As far as the reform of social and health care is concerned, surely the greatest risk is, in my view, that it cannot be implemented. Finnish decision-makers do it for the fifth time, the sixth government. The fact that we are unable to do so is a major risk. However, when Mr Viitanen, you made such a little opposition speech, I cannot fail to say that I read the evening paper in which the Secretary of the Christian Democrats has calculated the SDP president's proposals, i.e. the additions, the introduction of a general support model and the withdrawal of reforms, to 10 billion already. I think it is exaggerated, but we must be patient at this stage if these frameworks are to be broken in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u148	Mr President! Indeed, these forecasts were discussed in committee for quite a long time, in depth and in public, to some extent, and now this change from last autumn to this spring is significant. When that is the case, then, of course, it is interesting to note this assessment of the accuracy of the forecasting institutions, which was completed some time ago, about a month ago. That produced the result, perhaps a little unexpectedly, that the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance for various cyclical institutions had, however, been the closest to the truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u151	Mr President! I stayed to think about the spending limits we were talking about here, and these forecasts, which Finland now seems to have in the economy. After all, we have had a good rise in this, and it is precisely jobs that have increased and money has moved better on the market now. When you look at these tax reliefs that have been given to the well-earned at this point, people came to the market as a May Day to talk, pensioners...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u154	Mr President! I would have intervened in this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which in itself is worthy, as far as this is concerned with this ongoing reform of social and health care and regional reform and the impact of the reform. This report, when the committee goes through this, also refers to the observation made by the Audit Office, which quite rightly states that there are financial implications which may not be able to be properly assessed at this stage, and then there is no doubt that there should also be ex post corrective measures. As the government itself acknowledged in the spending limits debate, this reform involves changes that are not yet certain, and this will be back next autumn when different calculations can be made. However, when it comes to the reform of this category of measure, it would probably be appropriate to be able to assess these economic effects and to prepare for them even before the legislative package should be adopted here in Parliament. What happens here is that it will be a bit like asking Parliament for a name in an open proxy, where it is not yet known what amounts Parliament is committing itself to in this regard. It will then raise the question when the committee, in its report, is, by the way, gratefully reflecting on this problem of the sustainability gap and the fact that it may well be possible to come to those thin times in the future, that there should also be reason for us to know in advance the economic impact of such mega-class reforms that we would not put our name on an open proxy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u155	Mr President! On this subject, I would like to go on to say that sometimes the fact that experts in Parliament actually have to ask estimates and say, roughly, that in a billion-dollar category, could you estimate how many billions this or this will cost or will cost? So we're talking about really big structures, really big sums of money, what's going on here, big uncertainty about everything, and what's most important here is that this thing is the closest thing to people: people's health, social services, all this. This is really important. This is a mega-class thing. That is why, as a Member of Parliament, I find it very strange that we have to make some big decisions in the light of very weak estimates of effectiveness and cost. It reminds me that we are now buying an elephant in a bag. It seems to me that we are making major reforms, which not only have a number of suspicious facts in their own right, but also have this cost side fully open. However, when we have been sending this message all the time up to the European Union and have been given the flexibility to have these structural reforms, what if, in fact, as many experts fear, this cost mark, on the contrary, is going to be a step in the opposite direction as expected? Then what do we do? That is why, here and now, when the government brings this big issue to us, these calculations should be better known to Parliament, and the National Audit Office has said the same thing. I wouldn't want to buy elephants in a bag, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u156	Mr President! Indeed, the aim of the war, however, is to limit the cost increase from 4.5% to 3%, which would mean a saving of EUR 3 billion, which means that savings are at stake. However, if not all of it is achieved, the cost limitation will be in force. I was just saying wrong that it would have been in the afternoon paper, but it seems to be this article by the Christian Democrat Party Secretary in New Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u159	Mr President! Perhaps something about Finnish debate and culture tells us that this big thing itself can go completely unanimously, not only in committee but also in the debate here. The Audit Office has done an excellent job in this regard. We should thank the Agency and its competent staff for doing their own work, and then we should also thank the government for having acted in accordance with the commitments it has made in its fiscal policy and in keeping with the framework as Parliament has dealt with and approved these frameworks here. Then I come to the point that, when these elephants were mentioned here, I venture to suspect that Mr. Viitanen would not buy that elephant even if it was not in a bag.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u162	Madam President! A few words when you think about what are the great forks and uncertainties, and just now here the representative went to the next government term to evaluate. These billions have been seen, even in education policy, even during this reign. But for this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, This 3 billion-dollar index cutter, built inside it, is at least impossible to implement. Criticism over the whole preparation has also come from the Legislative Evaluation Council. Almost all experts who go around the various committees will agree that this 3 billion-dollar cutting-up will not be achieved because when people's service needs increase, we will have an increasing number of users at the same time. Up to 700,000 new customers come to the tax-funded service, because there will be oral health care, where they have not at present been among those who are now in Kela, or those who have paid in full private for insurance, and people who are in occupational health care or elsewhere will come to the tax-funded service according to this plan. Wage harmony has been predicted to amount to 700 million — 1 billion when it is transferred to over 200,000 people. 1.5 billion of Ict costs are reflected in a great many forecasts, so it may be that instead of its 3 billion cost cuts, we are up to 3 or 4 billion cost levels, which is more about plus 5 billion rather than...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u163	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 1/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u164	Mr President! The committee has discussed two reports from the Audit Office, firstly on the supervision of election funding in municipal elections in 2017 and then also on the supervision of party funding for 2017. These tasks and reports of the Audit Office are based on the legislation adopted during the 2007 parliamentary term. The red thread of the reform that was carried out at the time was to increase transparency and also to impose certain restrictions on external donations. In general terms, the system seems to work reasonably well both with regard to the funding of party activities and with regard to the financing of municipal elections. The Agency has not found any significant shortcomings in this audit activity. On electoral funding, first a few words on municipal elections. By the deadline, the election money notification was submitted to the Agency by over 15,000 obliged persons, 89 percent of those for whom that notification had to be submitted. Some of the notifications came after the deadline and then, in the end, 40 candidates had to apply for notifications at the risk of a periodic penalty payment. The Agency has done a very great job in a very large field, and it must also be taken into account that, unlike the parliamentary elections, the overwhelming majority of the candidates in the municipal elections are completely volunteers who are not in full-time, half-time or part-time political positions, so that the fact that the entire field is notified is a good sign both of the willingness of the candidates to comply with the regulations adopted and of the firmness of the Agency and of the fact that the tools given to the Agency are sufficient. These studies show that EUR 6.7 million was spent on municipal elections for candidates participating in the election grant notice. In 2012, the sum was EUR 6.4 million in local government finances, which is higher than inflation. The election campaigns were financed mainly by the candidates and their support groups themselves. The biggest election campaign was over EUR 61,000. Correspondingly, the biggest campaign in 2012 was EUR 35,000, which means that there has also been a very significant increase in this large measure category. The largest individual aid amounted to EUR 16140 in these municipal elections, while in 2012 the largest individual aid amounted to EUR 21639. With regard to parliamentary elections, it is worth mentioning that in the Parliamentary elections of 2011, the candidates who filed the election money spent EUR 8.6 million and in the last parliamentary elections of 2015 the amount spent by the candidates for this election money was EUR 9.8 million. Thus, the increase in the election expenses of candidates in the Parliamentary elections has been clearly higher than it has been in municipal elections, and these too have exceeded inflation. The committee has already stated in its opinion in 2016 that there is cause for concern about the increase in the costs of electoral campaigns and its impact on the functioning of democracy, for example the negative impact of these costs on the running of candidates. At the time, the committee considered it worthwhile to clarify the proposal for a functioning campaign ceiling that would smooth out the differences in funding between the candidates and make it possible for democracy to function better. In this report, the committee has now decided to reiterate this position, namely that it is justified to clarify the possibility of such a separate campaign ceiling. Of course, that is not an unambiguous point. However, we know that there are countries with such campaigns. Although the United States has come to the conclusion that in the presidential elections this kind of campaign ceiling is possible to set. It would be justified to launch this study and then bring its conclusions to the public debate and, if necessary, to continue the amendments on this matter to Parliament's deliberations. As far as party funding is concerned, the agency has gone through the parties as well as the parties' neighbouring communities carefully, and there are 154 to be monitored, i.e. quite a large group. Then there are also those party associations, some 6,000 which are not part of the agency's supervisory tasks. The Agency shall monitor compliance with the provisions on support referred to in the Party Act, the reporting of expenditure and funding for the election campaign and the drawing-up and transmission of documents relating thereto. Since the beginning of 2016, the Agency has been acting as the guardian of state aid as referred to in the party law, which was previously the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. In 2011-2017, more than EUR 21 million of contributions from parties, party associations and local communities have been announced in the notification register by an up-to-date notification. In 2017, more than 2.9 million, or just under 3 million, were reported. In addition to this, there have been additions, which also apply to previous years, and the audit work carried out by the Audit Office has contributed to these. The Agency has also reviewed eight parliamentary parties and their district activities in Helsinki, Häme, South-East Finland, Pirkanmaa, Savo-Karjala, Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi. According to the Agency’s report, party funding declarations are essentially correct after the additions and provide the relevant information and accounting information on the aid received by the audited entities and are properly and in accordance with the provisions. Then a few words on the development needs identified by the committee: First of all, the committee has already dealt with the issue of trust fees under this supervision, and in 2012 the committee rightly considered these payments to be part of the party's normal organisational activity, provided that they are not used to fund the election campaign. Since then, the Agency has taken account of this statement by the Audit Committee. In 2016, the committee stated in its report that all party candidates who, according to established practice, finance joint electoral work should not be regarded as external support under the reporting obligation, and this on the basis that the candidates themselves report payments in their own electoral declarations. Similarly, the committee has considered that Parliament's contributions should be treated in the same way as those mentioned above with regard to the fees paid by the Members of Parliament. We have been informed that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have discussed the committee's proposals a year ago in the spring, and in this regard the committee concludes that it would be justified, after some time since the legislation on electoral funding was being reformed or enacted, to react to some of the issues that need clarification. The committee also held a longer debate on this memorandum or proposal on the reconstruction of democracy. Its work was initiated by Sitra and by former MPs Liisa Hyssälä and Jouni Backman. These persons were also heard by the committee. The authors of this report were concerned about the reduction of the resources needed for party programming and the equal opportunity to participate in social debate and also in the production of social reform ideas. On this basis, the committee has considered that the importance of this democratic party funding should also be emphasised. It is of great value that parties can function on the one hand on the basis of social support and then on the other on the basis of the active involvement of their own members and that external support does not become too dominant. The independence of party activities can then also be safeguarded. With the idea of development, the committee felt that it could be justified to assess, for example, the need for separate electoral support under the circumstances, that subsidies for other political activities of the party have been severely reduced throughout this decade. The committee considered this separate aid to be a matter for clarification. The committee's report on this whole remains to be assessed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u165	Mr President! Well, I guess I'm the only government MP here tonight, and that's not a bit like that, is it? [Laughter] Indeed, the chairman of the committee presented this report in a balanced way. I would also like to draw attention to this work carried out by former representatives Hyssälä and Backman on democracy. They said that EUR 36 million was being spent to support party activities and that this, in relative terms, has been reduced in a way that has meant a quantitative and qualitative decline in party programming. At the same time, society supports other organisations. We know that, for example, by means of profit margins and otherwise, very half a billion different organisations are being supported. Of course, some of these are monitored, some aren't. In the past, even the Olympic Committee’s spending problems have arisen, as we have read. In other words, this is a very important and therefore perhaps twenty times as much as the parties that are supported. Interest groups are also supported through tax exemption. In a way, the tax subsidy is in theory three times that the membership fee is deductible when the employee's contributions to the employee's tax are tax-exempt, and then, even if it is distributed on strike, it is still tax-exempt until a certain amount of euro. However, this is also a social activity. After all, when I listened to the May Day talk, there was a very critical talk about, for example, the government of the country and there was talk of such an idea that there is penitent hatred. I don't know where these things come from. Well, it is a matter for each speaker, but these interest groups are not very open in this publication of their own spending. Here, a few years ago, the organisations did not even put their accounts on the Internet. I think they're already there. I think that, when it comes to social activity, these interest groups, in so far as they receive public support, should also be more transparent. I think this is Backman's and In this respect, the opening of the Hyssala report was a good thing that it raised this issue. Yeah, party offices have been ruined in this country. In the 1970s, the Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party also had two secretaries in the Parliament, and the party office had 30 employees. Now I think there's a little more than a dozen people in the party office, but there's a lot of people here in this Parliament, so they're getting their heads together, which means they're probably close to 70 with their assistants and group people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u166	Mr President! As can be seen from this report by the National Audit Office and from the presentation by the chairman of the committee, the main points are very good or very good: 17,000 persons obliged to report, and only 8 failed to report on their election funding. But there is one problem that has been identified by experts and also by the Audit Office and the committee, and that is precisely because the costs of the election campaigns have gotten out of hand. After all, we have electoral funding legislation, and Article 1 has three purposes: one is to increase transparency in the area of electoral funding; the other is to inform the public of the links between the candidates and the third is to curb the cost of election campaigns. However, as the committee quite frankly states in its report — at the end of the day — the cost of election campaigns has, according to experts, become so high that equality of standing will not be achieved in Finland. I think it's kind of a stop signal. Of course, we do not want Finland to be a country in which the candidate's wealth or ability to raise funds determines whether he can represent our country in the municipal council, the Finnish Parliament or the European Parliament. In other words, when Mr Ala-Nissila was the only representative of the government, I really hope that the government will catch up with the fact that the committee in its report proposes that the government should report on this matter. I hope that you will take a catch from this: how can we curb the growth of electoral campaigns in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u167	Mr President! It is good to continue with this speech by Mrs Feldt-Banna. Indeed, I myself would address this question as to whether there will be no more equality of standing in Finland in all respects. Like the chairman of the committee, the representative Heinäluoma went through well how these euros spent on campaigns have changed from previous elections, from municipal elections in 2012 to municipal elections in 2017, so the rise was much more moderate, but when comparing the 2011 Parliamentary elections with the 2015 Parliamentary elections, it is a rather significant increase. When we spend millions of dollars on every election putting more money into campaigning, it is clear that there will also be little chance for different people to raise electoral money. In this respect, it can be said that the experts believe that this equal standing will no longer be achieved in that way. So not everyone is pushing the same plank. It would probably be appropriate for this report on the campaign ceiling raised by the committee to actually be carried out. It is understandable that there will certainly also be legal implementation problems, but it would perhaps be good for the public debate to go through this matter thoroughly and then, if we see any need for change in the legislation, they would also be done together, because it is certainly in the interests of all of us, that in the future, anyone who wants to participate in social decision-making will also be able to stand in elections. The importance of this issue is further emphasised by the fact that we are actually going to have three elections in the next year, when we should have regional elections, parliamentary elections and then elections to the European Parliament. It can be estimated that, especially in these forthcoming regional elections, which then have large constituencies by region, there will be quite a lot of election budgets, we will probably be getting close to those electoral budgets for the parliamentary elections. In this regard too, it would be sensible now to clarify the campaign ceiling so that, in the future, we could perhaps achieve a slightly more sustainable level and actually reduce electoral funding, so that we did not have to put millions of euros in each election, but that money could perhaps be used for a slightly better purpose for the development of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u168	Madam President! After all, this issue of the campaign ceiling has often been discussed in this Chamber, and I think it is very important that the Audit Committee has raised this issue in its own report and suggested that this issue be clarified. I think it is important, it is important, it is a signal from Parliament that this work of inquiry should be undertaken. We all recognise these problems from a democratic point of view if the election campaigns are really big and that is neither desirable nor good development for anyone. Money can't solve these things once and for all. I also agree with Mr Räsänen's point of view that the fact that we are now going to have another election will give us yet another reason why we should return to this issue. A number of years ago, when we were thinking about this earlier, it seemed to me that this could have gone ahead, but unfortunately this was not the case at the time. And that is why I think it is very important that the committee's report now sends out this signal, which has already been on the table in the past. The timetable is rather fast, and this period would soon have to be taken up in order to get this under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u169	Mr President! Mr Feldt-Ranta made a good speech here. I can congratulate him on that, as I congratulate him on the anniversary of this important parliamentary session. Indeed, I agree with this opportunity to resolve this campaign ceiling issue. As an exception, the committee was not entirely unanimous — it has one different view — but, nevertheless, progress can be made. We are aware of all the technical problems involved, but they will probably come up there in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u170	Congressman Feldt-Ranta, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u171	Mr President! My speech was very good on this point on behalf of Mr Ala-Nissilä, so that I can thank him for his congratulations and thank him for his contribution, because yes, this is a real problem. Everyone here understands that when, on average, in the 2015 Parliamentary elections, for example, the parliamentary election campaign cost EUR 35,000 and, in the case of past MPs, more than EUR 40000, at some point the limit is exceeded, so that we can no longer think that, for example, Parliament would have a cross-section of the Finnish people if these costs of election campaigns increase at this rate. We had a parliamentary election committee a few years ago, which considered solutions to our current political system, and there came a proposal for such an election-specific campaign ceiling per candidate. At that time, the idea was that in municipal elections, the campaign ceiling per candidate could be EUR 10000, in parliamentary elections EUR 50000 and in the EU Parliament elections EUR 80000, and everyone already understands that these would in no way limit anyone's chances of getting their message read and heard by voters, but would be high enough to accommodate most of the current campaigns, but they would certainly curb this development, which is unhealthy, because, as Mr Räsänen well pointed out, this cost increase is accelerating at a very high rate: EUR 8.4 million in 2011 and EUR 9.7 million in 2015 already, and it is quite clear that in the next parliamentary elections we will break the EUR 10 million limit. I regard this as a problem for democracy. I'm glad it's addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u172	Mr President! Indeed, I forgot to mention that there is a difference, and, as Vice-President Ala-Nissila has said here, it is precisely in connection with this election funding and the campaign ceilings, telling us that it is not quite easy or unambiguous, to some extent also to share opinions. In the past, the committee has taken a position on this same issue of the campaign ceiling, then unanimously, and this concern has long been felt that in a democracy money is playing too big a role. That's not a good thing. That is why I think it is urgent that steps should be taken further in this area during this parliamentary term and that this sort of work of inquiry should be launched and carried out. It will probably be about six months when this issue is clarified, and then it would still be possible for this Parliament to deal with any need for change in a legislative sense. There are other amendments contained in this report which could be put forward quickly. However, I would like to thank the honourable Members for this debate, and I dare to interpret this in support of the committee's basic line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u173	Mr President! I would like to comment on one more point in this committee's report, and this relates to prior notification. These have been mentioned here in the big Chamber of Parliament before. It is positive in itself that, in the last municipal elections, 20% of all candidates made advance announcements on election funding by the deadline, which rose by 7 percentage points from the 2012 elections, but it would still be worth considering how we would also be able to increase the willingness of the candidates to announce their election funding in advance before the voters then go to the urn and make a choice as to which candidate they want to give it one single vote. This is also a significant increase in transparency that, even before taking their vote, voters would then be able to assess the election funding of the candidates and, for example, what kind of bodies each candidate has behind him. Mr President! It reminds me that a legislative initiative has also been taken in this Parliament, that prior notification should be made compulsory. In other words, perhaps on an ass night, if a working group like this were to be set up to assess this campaign ceiling, then at the same time it would probably be worth considering whether, with some kind of measures, we could increase the possibility of this advance notice, so that the voters would already know where the candidate's election money came from when they decided to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u174	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 4/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Mr Hassi, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u175	Mr President! This report by the Committee on the Environment is not unanimous. The main disagreement relates to the role of the municipality in waste management in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u178	Mr President! There are a number of very clear issues in the Government's proposal before us, which is why, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Finns in Finland objected to this report. We do not believe that the Waste Act should be reformed yet, because the European Union is reforming the Waste Directives. The law should therefore be reviewed and possibly reformed in parallel with the amendments to the Waste Directives and the transposition of the EU Circular Economy Package at national level. In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland aims to be the leading country in the circular economy in 2025, which requires wide-ranging cooperation between the public and private sectors. Sweden is strongly ahead of Finland in recycling, and there is further increase in municipal responsibility. Where we would be justified in this matter in order to achieve our objectives, the government now intends to further decentralise the burden-sharing of waste management and open up waste management to the market. Effective waste management is an essential part of society's basic infrastructure and a service of necessity, which we believe cannot be left to the market alone. The purpose of the rules on competition neutrality is not to protect private undertakings against competition from a public operator, but to intervene in the activities of a public operator which distorts the conditions of competition or the creation of competition on the market, i.e. the municipality operator must not enjoy an additional competitive advantage on the market. According to the Competition and Consumer Authority report 2/2016, municipal waste facilities do not distort the market and there is no evidence of a breach of competition law or of a loss of competitiveness. Mr President! As the chairman of the committee pointed out earlier, the EU Procurement Directive provides for a 20 % ceiling on the market-based disposal of tied entities in the municipal waste management sector in other parts of Europe, i.e. this 20 % upper limit on disposal in other parts of Europe. However, the Government's proposal proposes a 10% out-of-commerce limit for Finland until the end of 2029, which would be further tightened to 5% from 2030 onwards. In this respect, the proposal is inconsistent with its objectives, since the limitation of municipal liability will significantly increase the need for market-based services. At the same time, however, there is a significant restriction on the access of waste facilities to tenders. Too strict an exit ban jeopardises the cooperation between public and private actors in the circular economy and undermines the ability of Finnish operators to operate in the EU internal market. The strict exit limit will contribute to the concentration of waste management among large operators, as small operators will not be able to make the necessary investments to create their own waste treatment capacity. Mr President! True Finns believe that the changes proposed by the government are likely to increase the cost of waste management, weaken the creation of recycling solutions that support the circular economy, and the government’s proposal is therefore not in line with the overall interests of those who need waste management services and society. Mr President! I will therefore make the amendments to the article contained in the protest of the Finns of Finland in connection with the second reading of this Government’s proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u179	Mr President! It has also been quite well mentioned here in the presentation by the chairman of the committee, which was very good and balanced but well reflected the content of the committee's report, the fact that this amendment to the Waste Act contains a number of major questions. Personally, this amendment to the Waste Act does not respond to any real need. It is, in fact, harmful if we think about the basic principles of waste management, the protection of human health and nature conservation. The main objective of this proposal is therefore to open up the market more widely to private operators. However, this cannot or should not be the basis of social legislation, especially when it comes to ensuring human health and environmental safety. This law weakens the overall recycling targets and, for example, it is difficult to achieve separate collection targets in this way effectively enough. For example, plastic has now become a very powerful piece of waste that should be made operational quickly. This is, of course, a rather bad thing in view of the fact that Finland is seeking a place as a model country for the circular economy. According to experts, the law also increases waste charges for consumers, especially in sparsely populated areas where there is no alternative. Small businesses are also in difficulty in areas of long distances. The main shortcomings of the Government’s proposal could be overcome by allowing affiliated entities, in this case municipal waste management companies, to sell out 20% on market terms, i.e. the same as in the EU’s new procurement directive, which Poland and, if this proposal goes through, will be respected in other EU countries except Finland. An artificial limit of EUR 500000 in euro should also be removed from the proposal. As has already been mentioned here, public companies are at the heart of those EU countries where waste is handled well. We should also be able to see this and not to fragment it into different small parts, where the whole goes under these parts. Municipal waste facilities form a waste management network covering the whole of Finland, which has a genuine opportunity to develop waste management and the achievement of recycling targets throughout Finland, both in rural and urban areas. Cooperation with companies must of course be developed, but at the same time we must see that someone must have that overall responsibility. As has been said, the European model is for the public sector to do this. The Government's proposal argues that the availability of waste services is ensured by the so-called TSV service on subsidiary liability. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as the President-in-Office pointed out earlier, took a rather critical position in this report. When this market share is so severely cut, it is difficult to maintain such subsidiary responsibility when there is no resources for it. This will weaken overall waste management across the country. The Committee on the Environment also considers that, when the responsibility of the municipality is reduced by this government proposal, it may be necessary to provide more detailed provisions on the separate collection of waste under the responsibility of the municipality, the producer and the waste manager and the associated costs. These necessary new regulations could then help to alleviate the problems caused by the law for the implementation of an effective separate collection. In other words, there will be more bureaucracy by enabling businesses to operate better in such a way that the municipalities have greater scope for action where it makes sense. I repeat that the law is unnecessary and harmful to the organisation of efficient and economic waste management, so that health and environmental considerations are guided by legislation. It has already been pointed out that a new waste directive has just been adopted in the EU, which requires stricter recycling targets, and this implementation will soon become topical in Finland too. It certainly tightens these recycling targets. This legislation of ours is taking us in a different direction. If we had bureaucracy in Finland, there would have been a place where we would have looked at where the bureaucracy could be reduced. The opening of the same laws twice will certainly not reduce bureaucracy. Mr President! We have objection No. 1, which introduces three amendments to the articles so that two paragraphs, 32 and 42, are deleted because there is no reason to exclude municipal social and health care waste from the scope of this law but would remain unchanged, i.e. they would be part of municipal waste management. The second then relates to the question of this exit. We would be in the same line as the other Member States of Europe, with the exception of Poland, that the exit limit would be 20% and that such an artificial limit of EUR 500000 would not be applied.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u180	Madam President! The Waste Act is one of the strange laws I would never have liked to have come to the Chamber in this form. There are many points here where I cannot understand the arguments, one of which is that we have already been told in committee in the Administrative Committee that the next part will come in the autumn, that some parts of the law will have to be changed, and then there will be an EU waste directive, after which this law will be changed again, but it is urgent. The reason we're in a hurry didn't make it out to me, but maybe we can find it here on the ideological side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u183	Madam President! In this amendment of the Waste Act — when you see what remains of the municipality — the municipal waste from housing and municipal administrative and service activities and any waste from housing in rural areas, which is delivered only as a municipal activity, and it reduces the amount of waste that is publicly being transported. After all, with this government proposal, about 230,000 tons of waste will eventually be transferred to the free market. The estimated reduction in municipal waste management revenue is between EUR 45 million and EUR 56 million. You can draw such a conclusion from this — if you look at those structures and see how they have been made — that as a result the rates for municipal waste will rise. Then there is the difficulty that when Finland is such a country, that we live very densely here in the south and south-west of Finland, and then very few, the higher and the easterly, it will make its pricing considerably different in those sparsely populated areas and also affect our security of supply and the possible increase in unauthorized landfills when they are found today. I think that the current municipal system has been a very good and effective model for landfill waste and waste collection and, on the other hand, it has significantly reduced the waste car rally which was sometimes before this current waste law and at the same time safeguards the sustainability of our infrastructure, in such a way that there are not enough trucks to consume it. At the end of the day, however, the municipalities will be left with the ultimate responsibility for these waste, for the management of the waste, and then it will be the case that it too will be putting more pressure on this rise in the rate. This infrastructure, which the municipalities have built, has been built with the resources of society and is now being opened up to companies directly and, in that sense, this market situation in cities and Kun-tie will deteriorate at that stage. Then these waste incineration plants. For them, this is a very difficult situation because the current waste law is based on the need to recycle as much as possible with them and, in order for the amount of waste to be sufficient, it would be very necessary to have an exit limit of 20%. It would also support the circular economy in such a way that waste facilities would not have to go out to buy waste, which would in a way increase the cost structure of waste facilities and also increase the price of electricity at that stage if a lot of waste were to be purchased abroad. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u184	Mr President! Since, at the beginning of this debate, I made a presentation to the committee's report, for the sake of clarity, I am in favour of the 20% withdrawal limit proposed in the objections. I see it in this way also from the point of view of these competing waste producers that there is more competition for them if the activities of the municipal establishment are not limited to as much as the government proposes. Secondly, reference data from other EU countries, as was presented to the committee, clearly showed that those EU countries with the highest levels of waste recycling are complying with this 20% threshold, i.e. there the municipal capacity for waste management is not limited in such a way as the government is now proposing to do in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u185	Madam President! In a few speeches, Mr Paatero and Mr Myller, there was concern about this EUR 500000 sales limit that it should not be included in this legislation at all. Well, it is now the case that the Government's proposal explicitly states that, unlike the procurement law, the limitation of out-of-sales to a maximum of EUR 500000 per year is not, however, proposed to apply to the waste sector in this law, which means that this concern will then be taken away. Apparently, there was a slight misinterpretation. The long transition period is very good: large investments have been made and must be secured. I do not want to see any such confrontation between the private and the public. This is the aim of promoting the circular economy, but of course every time big changes are made, there are risks involved. That is why, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have now listened with a sensitive ear to both the Committee on Administrative Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we are doing this and we believe that we are heading in the right direction. New innovations are emerging.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u186	Mr President! After all, the main objectives of the Waste Act relate to health and environmental protection. That is why we have the kind of waste legislation we have had, so that we can deal with this necessary issue in the best possible way in all parts of Finland. But now that the government started reforming the Waste Act, this protection of health and the environment was not the central objective, but the opening up of the market became the central objective of the government. That is where the main risks of this reform lie, which, of course, come from the fact that this right of exit is now being restricted beyond what is required by the Procurement Directive. This direction is the same as it was last year: when the procurement law was adopted, the government already took the line that Finland should regulate these matters much more strictly than the EU directive requires of us. In all respects, the previous speakers have well addressed the substance side and these risks, which relate specifically to the circular economy and also to the activities of municipal waste companies. But perhaps as a general observation of this limitation to 10% and then, from 2030 to 5%, it can be said that this is a strange thing when it is often said in this Chamber that not all things should now be asked for permission from Brussels or that different things should not be regulated so harshly at European level. Well, now that for once there is a point where we have a procurement directive which, up to 20%, has this right to sell out, then national decisions want to take an even stricter line. Mr Paatero made a very good speech on this. Now that we see where Finland is moving from its own policy to other European countries, this change is quite dramatic. In this regard, one can ask whether this makes sense, and in that respect one can warmly support these arguments raised in the objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u187	Madam President! Mr Kiuru intervened here on an important issue, this long transition period, which is now up to 2030 with 10%, and only then moves to 5%. In general, when changes and reforms are made, investment protection should always be taken into account. Someone may have made major investments in any sector, whether public investment or private investment. This long transition period will ensure that these investments are given a certain degree of security. If we were always to move quickly and suddenly during a certain period of government to new legislative acts which in a way jeopardise the repayments of investment in this sector, which are also at stake here, are long, 10, 20, even 30 years, because the margins are small, then it is quite right that the government has taken account of these criteria in the opinion with a sensitive ear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u188	Madam President! I still have to ask, however, when the question was raised in this debate, among other things: after it was stated that the government did not agree — despite the fact that the experts felt that such legislation should not be taken into account — we were asked at least in the committee whether it could not be recorded that after the transitional period the situation would be assessed and not just dropped automatically to 5%. I was confused that even before this assessment was dropped to 5%, the government parties do not want to do it, but even if it looks like the legislation, they are confident that the only way to do this is to make the effort to monitor, among other things, its impact, but not even to want and be able to assess whether this has put Finnish waste management and recycling targets on the road to destruction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u189	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general debate begins — the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u190	Mr President! This committee's report is also divided. In this case, the objection to the committee's report does not contain any changes to the articles, but makes a contribution, because the contentious issues involved in this matter have been planned by the government to be resolved by a regulation. This is the background to the impetus adopted by this Parliament at an earlier stage, which obliges the government to prepare reforms to this 40-year interest subsidy scheme, which therefore supports the financing of affordable rental housing production. During this parliamentary term, this kind of so-called ten-year interest subsidy model has been introduced as a novelty. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stated that this 10-year model is in all respects cheaper for the borrower, the builder of rental housing, than the longer-term 40-year model. In the case of the short interest rate subsidy, i.e. the ten-year model, the maximum yield allowed is higher, 6 per cent, compared to 4 per cent in the long model. Ownership is lower, 2.5 per cent, while in a long model 3.4 per cent. Then, in this 10-year model, this aid will continue throughout the loan period, while in the 40-year model it will continue for only 23 years. Therefore, on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Parliament accepted the view that this 40-year model of interest subsidies should be reformed in such a way that they are equal to each other. That is now the aim of this government's proposal. The disagreement concerns whether this government proposal is now a sufficient correction to the current situation. The government's proposal thus improves to some extent the terms of this 40-year model by reducing the own contribution rate and then increasing this permitted own contribution rate to 6%, but the controversy has arisen that, at the same time, there is a ban on the provision for future basic renovation, maintenance and maintenance costs for buildings and dwellings. The payment period for interest subsidies will be extended but not extended to 40 years or more. As such, all these changes to the articles proposed by the government are supported unanimously by the committee. The committee also notes in its report that less than half of Finland's housing stock, i.e. about one third, is rented dwellings, of which just over one third are state-subsidised subsidised flats. During the current interest rate level, this State aid in the form of the actual interest rate subsidy has been limited. The state also supports affordable housing or affordable housing for the resident in the form of housing allowance. Last year, housing allowance was paid at around EUR 2 billion and in addition, income support was paid at around EUR 300 million to cover housing expenditure, in practice mainly rents. The committee also notes that the most important factor affecting the price of housing is whether or not there are enough housing available. The committee also commented on the debate on whether this subsidised housing, in which rents are more reasonable than on the free market, is marginalising other housing production. Well, of course it displaces areas where plots are desirable, such as market-based production, but the committee notes that it is in itself justified to produce these state-subsidised housing, because in that way it ensures that residential areas have the diversity of population, in other words to prevent segregation of residential areas, which prevention benefits for society are very diverse, including economic. The committee also notes, as a worrying feature of the current housing market, that when new owner-occupied dwellings are sold, the share of these housing company loans is increasing. It can be up to 70%, which can contribute to accelerating the rise in house prices, but also to creating such situations where people fall into a debt trap if interest rates rise and the impact of this housing company’s loan on the ability to finance housing has not been realistically assessed. In other words, the committee stresses that when comparing these supply and demand subsidies, that is to say this interest rate subsidy and then housing aid, we must take into account other aspects of housing policy than such immediate economic issues, such as the prevention of segregation. The objection to the committee's report contains four arguments aimed at improving the competitiveness of this 40-year model of interest subsidies. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u191	Mr President! Indeed, the beginning of this legislation is in the Parliament's approval of the need to ensure that this long-term interest subsidy is conditional on a lack of affordable housing production in growth centres, so that they are long-term, in fact forever, in the use of rented dwellings, as long-term dwellings built by municipalities with long-term interest subsidies are in practice. Indeed, this was linked to the fact that this contribution was made in the context of the adoption of such a second law on interest subsidies, i.e. such an interest subsidy for short-term rental dwellings. In this case, these conditions were better than in this long interest rate subsidy, although the rent level in this 40-year interest rate subsidy is almost half the lower than in this short interest rate subsidy. In fact, this short-term subsidised housing was characterised mainly as such support for the developers, which will then of course be realised when, possibly after 10 years, these dwellings are sold and, if they still have these low-income property in the municipalities, it is a direct transfer of income to the developers at the time, even though the purpose is, of course, to build housing for people and families who need low-income housing and in this case in particular. Indeed, we are not proposing to reject this bill, because the biggest changes that will be made to this, or the proposals that will be made to that effect, will be made in regulations. I have to say that this bill is heading in the right direction. This is an increase in the pre-emergence of repayments, an extension of the interest-rate subsidy period, but certainly not throughout this period of loan, and an increase in the maximum financial contribution to 95%. So these are all the elements that will improve this 40-year model of interest subsidies. But in order to make this really work, the objection has set out those means in the form of ponies: ‘1. The Parliament requires that, by decree of the Government, the terms of the long-term interest rate subsidy model be made more attractive for short-term reasons. The interest rate on the own contribution will be raised to 8% and the interest rate on own resources will be set to monitor changes in the general interest rate level. 2. The Parliament requires that the interest subsidy period be extended to cover the entire loan and limitation period and that the amount of aid to be paid in the form of interest subsidies is constant throughout the loan period. 3. Parliament requires the Government to monitor the impact of the legislative amendment on the implementation of renovations and equal treatment of residents.’ — This is indeed the case that long-term interest subsidy prohibits the provision for renovations of dwellings, while ten years of interest support allows for this provision, and quite a few believe that renovations will still take place over a period of 10 years. ‘4. Parliament shall require the Government to carry out a review without delay of the functioning of the long-term and short-term interest rate subsidy model.’ These are, therefore, the proposals proposed in this objection, so that this proposal can actually increase the production of housing where housing is needed and, in particular, increase the production of affordable housing. Personally, I also believe that it is precisely in the case of flats built with a really affordable interest subsidy model, where the rent per square metre is at the level of EUR 10, that, for example, around 40 per cent of all rental dwellings in the capital region should be located here. That would be the part that would actually curb this general increase in rent levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u192	Mr President! This question touches on a rather interesting phenomenon, which in Finland is quite strong today: it is, of course, migration and the diversity of housing prices across Finland. It is clear that the cost of housing and the cost of rent are, of course, a problem for people who do not have the capacity to pay, and that is why this government proposal will then improve it, that is to say, the state, the taxpayer, will support rental and right-of-occupancy housing, so that they will be built more. It is understandable when people move to growth centres, especially Helsinki, that housing production is then accelerated in this way. But when it happens in many different ways, it inevitably leads to a situation where in some way it should compensate for the fall in the prices of the dwellings that will then take place elsewhere in Finland, but I will come to it a little later in my own speech. Government-subsidised housing production is only a small part of the whole range of means of government housing policy. Of the Finnish housing stock, about one third are rental dwellings, of which over one third are government-subsidised interest-subsidised and arava-subsidised dwellings. In addition to this, as the chairman of the committee has said, some EUR 2 billion of housing allowance is paid in Finland — it is then differentiated in a different way to whom it is paid — and according to the report, 300 million income support is also directed towards living in practice, in other words rents. In other words, this huge housing subsidy package also keeps housing prices high and, therefore, rents high, and it should be wondered whether this is now the right mechanism for directing state money, that is, taxpayers' money, to housing, because it is questionable who the money is going to go to at the end of the day. Then there is a rather interesting issue which the committee has also well touched on here: ‘It is in concern that a new form of financing model is created in which,in the case of the sale of new dwellings,the share of loans to a housing company may up to 70 per cent of the price of the dwelling, which may not only accelerate the This is a good point, because I think it may even be that the purchase price that is paid in cash is even lower than this 30%, and this has now led to a phenomenon that is quite much used in the production of new dwellings, that when such a housing company loan is taken out, the housing company may enter into the profit and loss account of the financial consideration paid by this owner, thereby making it deductible to the owner, for example, for rent. This is a special interpretation — I do not know where the law is based, but it is a special interpretation — if, in some business, the repayment of the debt is suddenly wrapped up in something, this time in the form of a financial consideration — the right to deduct it from the proceeds, the repayment of the debt is deducted from the income. There are many elements that accelerate housing production but then accelerate the rise in housing prices, and that cannot be a purpose for the low-income, and certainly not from the point of view of other people. But if I have correctly interpreted, an even more serious legal deficit is included in the interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court, that when an ordinary person, who does not himself live in such an apartment, buys such a dwelling, pays a small price in cash, then then pays off these housing company loans, that is, its financial consideration, even if after six months at a time, but does not live in it himself and sells it, then the tax authority will interpret it — even if he sells it at the same price as he has bought when he has paid off the debts — that the payment of the debt will not be taken into account in the purchase price of the dwelling. It turns out that even if this unsuspecting citizen sells this apartment away at the same price as he has bought, he will receive a significant income tax slip from the tax authority. This has happened, and then we must start cleaning up if such injustice comes upon a person who is not aware of how the housing company has handled the financial consideration in its accounts. And if you think of this phenomenon as a whole — the debt reduction is deductible from income — then we are dealing with a rather unusual phenomenon, because I believe that in the business world, receipts and supporting documents must be kept for ten years. Who will only find out after fifteen years who has reduced the financial consideration and where? In other words, it is quite clear that housing production is being supported in this way, and somewhere we may have to cut this off, and we have to see if this is right and fair anymore. This means that when someone buys a dwelling and rents it and gets to deduct the maintenance charge and the financial consideration from it, it is plus minus zero and he does not pay a tax for the rent either. These are some kind of tax-free passengers, as far as I'm concerned. We need to look into this matter more closely and see what we can do about it. But the real thing from the point of view of this foreword: Perhaps someone may understand why I have often spoken in this Chamber about the fact that when the price of dwellings is falling somewhere in Finland, of course, when it is rising somewhere because of migration, the value of property tax is calculated on the basis of construction costs, i.e. in practice it is almost the same in different parts of the country. In my opinion, if we accept this, that we are able to use this building company loan as a catalyst for construction and as a catalyst for sales, then, for reasons of fairness, we should accept that we should look at the basis of the property tax in such a way that the value of the property tax is linked to the real value of the property. Then we will achieve justice that if a person's property is reduced because of this migration, then he will not be taxed as heavily as is currently being done, so that the property tax cannot be such that the property that does not exist is taxed. These are big things, and it is a bit of a shame that there are only a few Members here who are listening to the things that this Chamber should be discussing much more. These apply to hundreds of thousands of people in Finland, and these problems are present every day, and that is why we must try to do something about them. I know that the Ministry of Finance is currently re-evaluating property taxation, specifically the tax bases, but on how fast that process is and what the outcome is,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u193	Madam President! Mr Eestilä raised important points, and I will continue with this broader view of the housing market, including what was included in the report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Of course, housing loans — at their 70 - percent highest — are a factor that lowers the threshold for buying one’s own home. It is all right in itself, but there is a significant risk of a housing bubble being created, and when low interest rates are introduced in this same situation and even the fact that there are these years of unpaid payment, the buyer may have a delusional view of his own solvency. And now, at least locally, in some regions, there are obvious signs of overheating on the market. These support issues: EUR 2 billion for housing support and EUR 300 million for the payment of rents by means of income are really big money, and it is worth starting to think a little bit about and really clean up whether they will accelerate the increase in rents, the increase in the prices of dwellings, to which the subsidies will ultimately be transferred. Although I am here on the right side of the presidency, I am not in favour of a filthy capitalism in which state subsidies fall into the hands of greedy capitalists. The aim now is to provide affordable housing for every Finnish citizen and support forms to enable reasonable housing and also to enable reasonable production of rental housing, but, of course, excessive and excessively bureaucratic systems must not be built in the country. We are still in a housing bubble every 20 to 30 years, and I find it a small surprise if I do not see some kind of bubble burst within three or four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u194	Mr President! Here are a few things for which I asked to speak. This question of housing aid and then this support for construction, that is, demand support and supply aid — demand support is this housing aid — and where it is directed: I understand that there have been studies on it, that is, it is not the point that raises rent. But that is why we need these supply subsidies, that we then have alternatives in the housing market and in the rental housing market, that these really low-cost rental dwellings are available and that rental dwellings that are cost-effective and that are built in such a way that they do not generate profits for anyone, but that affordability is precisely for the benefit of the person who needs the dwelling. Personally, I am in favour of increasing this aspect, which will then bring more balance to the market there. But it is true that the fact that we have housing in the right place, that is, where people, where there is growing demand, is, of course, the way in which housing costs are controlled. It is good that these mortgage loans have now come to light. Perhaps six months ago I myself put a written question to the Minister for Housing on this matter. He didn't see any problem with these growing mortgages. I am also concerned about whether this is a very small share of own resources at the beginning, that it may be overestimated and then that it may become difficult. Above all, the good things that have happened to us in housing policy over the last few years are the development that has taken place between the state and the municipalities through these MAL agreements, which has meant that it has been possible to place housing in good traffic. This is, for example, very important from an environmental point of view, but also from the point of view of improving these links between jobs and housing. This work must be developed and these MAL agreements must also be taken outside the capital region to other growth centres. And I agree with these divided housing markets. There.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u195	Mr President! It is good that these issues are being discussed constructively. Yes, these mortgage loans may actually be a problem when interest rates start to rise. We are still living in a time of negative interest rates. In America, however, interest rates, long-term interest rates, have risen quite strongly, and it is assumed that at some point in time they will also start to rise here, and then some may get into trouble because they may then have scaled their own lives at a certain level. In this decade, mortgage loans have risen by 10 billion, they are currently around 17 billion, and the slope of the increase appears to be 45 degrees, so that it is a problem of some kind. As I said just now, perhaps that might make the problem even bigger when we see why we really have to support accounting systems in the tax euro, so that in the housing companies the profit and loss account is then taken to the profit and loss account. We should change the legislation in that way so that it is included in the balance sheet. After all, the building company is practically just a bbulvan in between. When this owner pays, shortens the loan, the housing company takes it as if for revenue. In my opinion, we have too many mechanisms to accelerate housing construction and that leads to exactly what it has led to. I see for myself a little different from Mr Myller that when we have such a massive housing allowance in Finland, EUR 2 billion, of which 30 per cent may be targeted here in the capital region, and by means of income support, 300 million will be added, so it must start to be seen in the prices of dwellings and in the rents of dwellings. It is precisely this that accelerates the housing production and investor housing business when there is such a small amount of money that you can buy yourself, and when you happen to know that there is a housing company that pays the profit and loss account for this financial consideration, that when you get the rent, you will not pay even a euro tax, because the tax authority will then, as if as a partner, run the house, and then in time, when you rent it, sometimes you will move, you will live for a couple of years and sell it away, you will be able to do it tax-free. These are also issues that need to be considered in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u196	Madam President! Mr Myller referred to the fact that these demand subsidies, i.e. housing allowance and income support in so far as it relates to rentals, do not move up to rents. I understand this argument because I have heard it. I think that was in the expert consultation in committee when we heard about this, and I was surprised. Of course, I would like to believe the expert, but I think a little like Eestilä, that if 2.3 billion something is being supported, then it must now be seen somewhere, if there is still a limited number of that stuff on the shelf, in this case the rental dwellings. Just like this kind of spontaneous experience from the field supports the fact that yes it now appears somewhere — perhaps not to the extent that the euro could be deduced, but some kind of. Well, then Mr Myller also raised a good point, the MAL agreements and transport issues. When it comes to housing policy, it is not just about buildings or subsidies that are being built, it is also about transport policy. It also involves environmental policy, emissions and so on. Now, for example, if you look at this housing situation in the capital region, the prices are rising by such a factor that the average person who works in ordinary jobs is having real difficulty getting through rents, let alone going to save his own apartment. And what can relieve that pressure, one way is indeed these MAL agreements, operating transport connections. If we get active rail links in the direction of Tampere and in the direction of Turku, so that the connection is about an hour, then this is a single working area, and many people like to visit Hyvinkää, Hämeenlinna, Riihimäki, Tampere, working in the capital region, and then return home for the evening, but if it takes almost two hours in its direction, it is not a viable option. An hour is such a limit where the daily commuting in its direction still works.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u197	Mr President! Let's be brief. It would certainly be time to find out why this increase in rents is due, because it really does not control politics, if we have the impression that by cutting rents we can calculate housing subsidies, because then we will cut those people with the lowest income. This is what it will lead to if this claim is taken categorically. Indeed, experts have found that there are no such direct links but there are many other reasons why this rent level is here so high. Of course, the fact that there are too few apartments is a big question. Of course, these transport arrangements are very important, I say here, in different parts of Finland, because, for example, work is being carried out here in the capital region from all over Finland, from the east, from the middle and from the west, but of course we must ensure that these jobs are also found elsewhere than here in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-02-ps-44.u198	Mr President! We have to take the floor because no one interprets that, with Mr Kiuru, for example, we here believe that we should go straight to the point of reducing housing subsidies. Everyone in Finland needs a roof over their head and of course someone has to answer that the rents are paid like this, and that's why we have this kind of system. But it should be considered whether it is right now for us to put a certain percentage that is paid, or whether we should somehow change the criteria, that everyone lives a little in the same way as the money is sufficient, that we do not go directly through the mechanism to increase the price of housing and, of course, the price of rents. Generally speaking, it seems to be quite uncontroversial to say that all subsidies in some way fall into prices. They just have that tendency. Whatever the issue of agricultural subsidies, they go to prices. No matter what the experts say, they tend to do so. We should think about this all over again. Above all, I would like to see the tax value of real estate tax taken into account in some way, on the basis of a postal code or other transactions, assessed in such a way that the tax value of real estate tax is better equal to the real value of real estate. After all, it is quite unusual when somewhere in Finland the purchase price of the property is lower than the annual property tax. In some way, the legislation and the way in which this property tax is taxed are wrong. It's got to be researched and greeted.
