ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u2	Mr President! My legislative initiative before us today on the subject of espionage is very timely. Among other things, the public has prominently dealt with the type of crime in a single trial — the caseAxlSmith — and noone has been sure to be unmistakable as the subject of this kind of crime and of the public interest. The code of secrecy is set out in Chapter 24 of the Criminal Code. Secretiveness and its preparation are punishable acts. Unauthorized viewing or photographing by technical devices in a place protected by domestic peace, in a similar place or in a place closed to the public is punishable. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Representative,can I ask you to reverse the mouth of the microphone,because there is a poor voice from some reason?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u7	Mr President! I will take those last words from Mr Raatikainen in the toilet in connection with this initiative, the safe... - How'd it go? Say that again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u10	Mr President! We have very well provided for secrecy, eavesdropping and letter secrecy, but our legislation has not kept pace with technological progress this millennium. It's frozen in the back, and it looks like the head start is just stretching. We are in a state similar to that of drugs: new conversion drugs are being developed so quickly that they cannot even be labelled in the regulation. This is also happening with electronic devices that are suitable for eavesdropping, listening, recording, recording and other prying. Devices can be steered from a distance, such drones can hover in the air, proceed on land or in water. They can also be disguised and placed in fixed objects, such as a game camera. Image and sound are automatically transmitted. Anyone who wants a drone can buy them quite cheaply, even at an online store. Some buyers use their tools for criminal purposes, purpose or lack of understanding. Secret information can be used to harm almost anyone, either financially or mentally. In both cases, the consequences can be quite serious. Investigation into such crimes is difficult and burdensome, since the criminal act itself and its consequences may not be apparent to the plaintiff until one or two years later. The maximum penalty for the current legislation has fallen short of time. It is modest and also affects the age of the crime. The period of ageing is now only two years, whereas it is usually five years in financial crime. The essence of the bill is that the current Chapter 24 Section 6 of the Criminal Code They shall be amended so as to enable the offender to be sentenced to imprisonment for a maximum period of one year and six months. In this case, the age of the crime increases to five years. It gives a significant amount of time to solve the crime. Mr President! I support Mr Raatikainen's excellent bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u11	Mr President! I would like to thank the representative of the Finnish Parliament and Detective Raatikainen for a very good bill. From this point of view, you can see how many things we currently have in the Criminal Code that should be brought up to date for review, and from here we have received greetings from the Ministry of Justice, but we are still waiting for them. One thing is a matter that is maintained and discussed a lot by Finns, this gross sexual abuse of a child and rape, that is, raising the penalty minima. These are such things that they are very easy to forget and manifest themselves in practice, as has now become apparent here too, that it is of course impossible to examine the matter when it is obsolete. Then there is much feedback that even if one can investigate, the punishments are too mild. It is up to Parliament to change that punishment policy. The courts, when they determine their sentences, have a certain uniform penal code, which is ultimately the highest court's line of action. And if we want those penalties to rise, we must raise that threshold. I do not really know why this is not progressing, this project, because this has been discussed for many, many years, especially in the case of crimes involving children, about sexuality, about the distribution of images, about anything else. I have to tell you a personal event this summer. I was sitting at home in the yard, watching a photocopter like that go up there. I have no doubt at all that he is so interested in me now — probably someone was practicing this helicopter — but here I am thinking that if I talk to my husband about very personal matters, then if there are good listening devices, then do I read them suddenly in some magazines — there are very difficult things people want to talk about in private. Of course, one solution would be for us to move more to such a punishment practice that the aging begins when the result becomes known to the person. Thank you, Mika Raatikainen. I am in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u12	Mr President! Once again, Mr Raatikainen must be commended. Through his civilian work, he has extensive experience of these issues, where different kinds of crimes arise, and this secrecy has increased dramatically today, precisely in the way Mr Raatikainen raised in his own presentation. This week it was announced how public toilets in South Korea need to be checked several times a day when cameras of this kind are placed there, the material of which is then distributed for sick use. Mr Raatikainen's proposals are good for tightening up and punishing the rules of secrecy. School bullying, different types of blackmail and these types of questions arise. Then, of course, it is up to us to have a lot of legal filming and then it would be necessary to strengthen the number of signs and information. Today, for example, there are a lot of surveillance cameras, game cameras and this type of camera, and they will perhaps also be in a slightly similar situation to that of a sneak peek for such a criminal purpose. In other words, a person may accidentally be guilty of this type of situation without knowing it. But then, Mr President, his question is good manners, the general rules of the game. I very much welcomed the concern raised by President Tarja Halonen, for example, about public dressing rooms, whether it is the locker rooms of the sports team or the public swimming pools — which the President was talking about — where it is quite common that there are mobile phones in hand and that there may be situations of this kind. Or — and I have come across it myself a few times — there is concern that in sports clubs pictures are taken of locker rooms, even by our TV channels, and some of these pictures may be in outfits that have not thought that they will also come to our TV viewers' attention. I would like everyone — including the television channels, the players in sports programs — to be concerned about such privacy that an athlete should be allowed to turn on the playing equipment without being passed on to us TV viewers. We would rather watch that game and sports performance, whether on the rink or in the boxing ring, or whatever it is. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u13	Mr President! In the same way as Mr Heinonen here: support from the right-hand side for this bill. Mr Raatikainen's bill must be supported, and that speech, which we all heard, also gave a very brief account of the current situation. As a person on the technical side, I think that the question of how our democratic system will be able to govern and adopt rules of the game in the future and even now is really being challenged. Technology is developing enormously. Twenty years ago, no one would have imagined that this type of equipment, which is now sold for a few hundred euros, is as small as it is and can be used as precisely as it currently can. In other words, how in a way the updating and updating of society's rules of play work, and then how man views and technology develops, it is such a triangle where there is also a democratic gap. In other words, the fact that we update these legislation, update it to technical progress is also important with the idea that it gives citizens confidence in what is right, what is wrong, what is not to be done and what is to be punished for it. So, in that sense, a well-supported initiative. With these kinds of communication tools, WhatsApps, social media, can now be spread so quickly, can be blackmailed, there are cases of sexual harassment, which even this week Hesari revealed. Many of our young people have already faced them, different cases and blackmail, so this is a truly worthwhile initiative. And I regret, of course, that I did not sign at that point in the spring, but the oral support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u14	Mr President! I cannot say now that here on the left side, I would just say that as a left-wing Member of Parliament, Jari Myllykoski was delighted to welcome the attention that I find essential in this bill. And of course this is such a personal appreciation of the fact that the expert has made the arguments. This is not about Mr Raatikainen being woken up to a question like this, but he has faced this problem in his own civilian profession and thereby been an expert and very well justified in this referral debate on the positions he raised. We're at peace today. Mr Meri, if it had been published in such a way or brought up the process you have discussed there in your yard, it would already be reprehensible. But here is the particularly important observation that this time to settle this crime will be possible to continue, and I think it is a very good aim. I myself have sometimes encountered the fact that, after talking on the bus, the person in front of me on the phone has recorded my call. Then we go there to listen when it is my personal communication on the phone. It's not legal to publish it, so it's a crime. It is not, in a way, a question of not having evidence, but of how we can regulate what is being brought into social media and how the authorities are going to react and how quickly we can curb the school bullying and other offences that are being committed. We have certainly watched on television the story of the one young woman who told us how, in a way, the whole community is against one person and can deepen and deepen the bullying and distress. We have to have equipment. And Mr Heinonen rightly pointed out that we should also have something in public places that is not described. So now I hope that this bill will be taken seriously and that this debate will also be deepened to the extent of what is the life of the individual in society, even if it takes place in public places. Yes, we must be able to rely on the fact that manipulation does not take place in the electoral fields. When a person comes to tell me about his personal matter, and someone pictures it there in the marketplace, it is not a question of what I have answered him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u15	Mr President! I cannot say that I know this subject very much, but I think that Mr Raatikainen's introduction has highlighted the problems that arise in these matters. Certainly, once technology has evolved, smaller cameras can record, record, and then there is the network where everything can be distributed for everyone to see, so the legislator has not kept up. Mr Raatikainen's speech assured me that what he is saying is justified. In addition to that, there are other good points on the subject, such as Mr Heinonen's speech. There were doubts as to whether the Ministry of Justice has sufficiently quoted these challenges. Certainly not enough, but I would like to point out that, now that we have Antti Häkkänen as Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice has now set out to speed up certain requirements for the hardening of penalties and their implementation, needs for which we obviously all agree that tougher penalties are in order. And I would like to pay tribute to Minister Häkkänen for this. For example, it is precisely here that we are talking about a child being subjected to serious sexual offences and often also about women being subjected to rape and other serious sexual offences. I dare say that, in these matters, we are obviously all in support and behind the Minister's initiatives, because in the red-green term of the Minister of Justice we learn that prison does not cure anyone and the hardening of penalties does not make any use of anything, but I now understand that these sexual crimes are still something that the Greens believe is of little help to that prison and that the hardening of punishments is still in order. That's good. It should also be noted that the recent government budget debate also provided additional funds to make the supervision of, for example, paroled prisoners more effective and also to look at the first-time rules in a new light. In other words, I think there is now a good tuning-up in this criminal policy. What can then be dealt with during this parliamentary term is, of course, its own question. But I would also like to thank Mr Raatika for the fact that he has made a strong and very expert point to the problems that arise in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u16	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Raatikainen, for the very important legislative initiative. Indeed, time has changed with the development of technology. It is of great benefit, we all know that, but it is precisely such unpleasant, even horrendous, mild phenomena that we should tackle. Human privacy and honor are important values. I am very concerned that, for example, in matters of defamation that are constantly taking place — now I do not remember him, I think he was a professor at the University of Helsinki or someone else who took a stand on it — at the same time, people are expected to increase their tolerance. This, in my opinion, merely reflects the fact that the police do not have the resources to investigate what comes in mass. And as I told you, these values, their right to privacy and honor, are important to people. When these personally traumatize people very much, as Mr Raatikainen has already described, I would see that we legislators have to respond to this people’s distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u17	Mr President! When I was a lawyer from my education, I was excited about the speech on the left side and I did check out the breach of peace at home. I don't think it's okay to sneak in on this. It requires that a person physically invades my home or violates my privacy by making noises and throwing objects or otherwise, and there are even shorter limitation periods. It does not solve this problem, but it is precisely this section, because it is said in this case that an unwarranted technical device watches or pictures a place protected by domestic peace. This is precisely the specific provision. I was just excited about this myself. Here's how it went. That is where Mr Zyskowicz referred to what has now been done in the Ministry of Justice, and that is what Minister Häkkänen has promised, but we are looking forward to it now that so many years have been spoken about: when, when, when?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-07-ps-80.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
