ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. And for all viewers and listeners welcome to Question Time. As usual, Question Time focuses on opposition issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u2	Questions will be initiated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Congressman Ihalainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u3	Madam President! We have been concerned to see that the government is about to bring to Parliament proposals to weaken people's employment security and job security, in companies with fewer than 20 people. In particular, it will probably increase insecurity and inequality. Even on the basis of these studies, these proposals have no significant impact on employment. Their impact on productivity may also fade if they result in more insecurity and discord in the workplace and disunity. From the point of view of equality, the basic conditions of employment should not be defined on the basis of size or age. All employee organisations from Tehy to OAJ have opposed such a proposal. The government should not now bring such a proposal or challenge an unnecessary dispute at a time when we should be able to cooperate well and peacefully in Finland. In this respect, we hope that the government — the wise government — will not bring such a proposal to Parliament. I am about to make a constructive alternative to this proposal. How, Prime Minister, do you feel?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u4	Madam President! Good fall to the whole Parliament for me, too. — This government proposal, which has now been the subject of statements and opinions, is made because the threshold for employment would be reduced precisely in the smallest companies in which, of course, every person recruitment is a risk to the company — a higher risk than for a larger company, because it is much more difficult to reinvest in that same workplace than in a larger company. Even after this amendment, dismissal is not easy and should not be easy, but there must always be very serious reasons for doing so. As far as this general situation is concerned, I think that all of us here should insist that all such decisions continue to be taken with careful consideration in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u6	Mr President! I am now making concrete and serious proposals specifically to reduce the employment threshold for SMEs. Firstly, spending more than six billion on dealing with unemployment: taking a certain slice and building an employment voucher that lowers the employment thresholds. Strengthening skills: A recent study by the EK showed that the core of recruitment problems is not job security but skills shortages. Thirdly, we should raise the VAT threshold, to ease the plight of small businesses. Fourthly, encouraging and rewarding the recruitment of the first employee for EUR 20000. And fifthly, to support SMEs in their pains, their problems, including recruitment skills, and to help them cope with difficult situations and also to build a better future. Prime Minister, how do you respond to these proposals, which, I say, are absolutely superior to reducing the level of protection against dismissal, which only increases inequality and thereby reduces productivity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u7	Let's try to stay in those minutes. So, Minister Lindström, same words.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u8	Madam President! Thank you for your constructive approach to this difficult issue. Indeed, the government has no intention of causing any quarrels in this society. In this society, we have done well before, and I will encourage and understand each other. This is, therefore, the background to the reduction of the employment threshold and nothing else. This idea of an employment voucher has emerged before. Well, the government's response to this has been that we have used this previously passive money in such a way that it can now be used for start-up money and pay support. Wage support can be used to support businesses. We decided in the dispute that we would introduce a premium for a company where fixed-term employment becomes permanent during the pay subsidy period. This is in the implementation phase. The payment periods for company pay subsidies will be reduced and the process of payment support will be simplified. This is under execution. We made a lot of decisions, but these alone are not enough. More needs to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u9	Mr President! The Prime Minister said that the aim is to improve employment, and that is certainly a common goal for all of us. You also said we should look into things carefully. When I read that prepared presentation, which has therefore gone to the consultation and its impact assessments, both distinguished researchers, both Antti Kauhanen and Merja Kauhanen, say in the explanatory statement of the Government’s proposal that the impact on employment is unclear. If you know of such a study that shows that the employment effect of this law is certain, could it be written in that law or could it be brought to Parliament for information, because so far I have not found one?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u10	Madam President! Mr Filatov rightly raises this impact assessment, and this issue must be taken seriously. What we are, of course, basing this on is feedback from the entrepreneurial field. If 37% of SMEs say that if this law goes through, they will immediately employ people, then we will talk about a significant number. It is a significant number and there is no reason to overlook it — nor is it the risk of recruitment in small companies. That is why we have made this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u11	Mr President! This bill places workers in a very unequal position, depending on the size of the workplace, and it undermines the protection against dismissal and does not meet the employment objectives. This is how experts have assessed this bill. From the point of view of the quality of working life, this bill is counterproductive, since employees may no longer dare to raise the issue of the fear of kicks. The bill has been justified, among other things, by the high costs of false filing in small companies, but changes have already been made: the Employment Contracts Act has recently been amended regarding the probation period, and the employer can agree on a six-month probation period instead of four months, during which the suitability of the employee's work can certainly be assessed reliably and competently. Why does the government consciously want to undermine the atmosphere of the labour market at a time like this with a proposal of this kind which is not of great benefit but which is even more harmful and problematic?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u12	Madam President! I would like to return to the fact that this objective is to reduce the employment threshold for small enterprises. Everyone here understands that recruiting in a small company is always a higher risk than in a big company, and if there are problems there may not be another department to which this person will be transferred, but it will really be a challenge then. This reduction in the threshold for dismissal is assumed to affect the willingness of companies to employ, and, as has been announced on the part of Finnish entrepreneurs, it is 37 per cent. I think it should be taken seriously. I will not belittle it in any way if it is made easier from one end to the other, that is to say to facilitate dismissal, and that too must be taken into account. But we do estimate that the result will be positive, and that is why we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u13	There was also a question here for the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group on the same subject. That question is asked by Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u14	Mr President! It does sound like the government is missing another argument. As has been heard, this reduction in the level of protection against dismissal cannot be justified by an increase in employment, according to researchers. [Right : What about productivity?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u15	Mr President! I'm not the prime minister, but I'm in charge of the labour market. You say that there will be these tensions — of course, we have recognized it and we are just as concerned about it as anyone in this Chamber who takes these matters seriously. But one of the reasons why these tensions have arisen here is also the communication: what has been reported in public about what this presentation is seeking. In any event, if a person is made redundant, the basis must be the reprehensible behaviour of the worker, which is so significant that the dismissal of his employment relationship can be regarded as a reasonable result. And so the criterion must be proper, as it has been until now, so that dismissal is a proportionate measure. We are therefore not bringing anything here that would be contrary to international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u16	Mr President! There is no reason for tensions in communication if the government has not been able to provide any arguments to support the government's communication that why such a bill is being taken forward. Where is the research evidence that this reduction in the level of protection against dismissal would lead to better employment? They're nowhere. Where is the evidence that this lowers the pay threshold? Has the government, for example, assessed the importance of extending the probationary period in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u19	Madam President! The reason for this change in dismissal is that the threshold for employment is falling. We have taken dozens and dozens of measures as government to promote employment, and the results speak for themselves: more than 110,000 Finns, well above our targets, have already had a job, in three years, and I think that we should all be happy about it. But we need to get to the next level in order to maintain the welfare society: 100,000 Finns must be brought into working life. Smaller and bigger measures are needed to achieve this. The panel of 50 Finnish economists also assessed this bill: 49 per cent of them thought that this would help to create jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u20	Mr President! Representative Ihalainen put forward some ideas that the Finns also had in the alternative budget, and of course these could have been raised during the previous government term. Apparently, the representative of Ihalainen was not listened to enough. But they're worth it. In fact, I would have asked now: when, in the summer, we read that the government is planning to abolish the four-month working requirement for workers coming to Finland, so that they can get into the social security district more easily, is this now linked to trying to make it easier for even the workforce to be replaced? This is an interesting question, there have been no comments from the government on how this is going to proceed. Then I would have asked again how to ensure that what the Prime Minister said was reprehensible behaviour as grounds for dismissal. At times, at least I myself receive mail that even political and other opinions are considered inappropriate in some workplaces. Which means how to ensure it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u21	Mr President! I would like to respond to the part of the question which apparently concerned this key project in the study of housing-based social security. It is not linked to the laws mentioned above and now under discussion, and it is just in preparation. It's not in Parliament yet. In addition, there are also links between EU legislation, which are now being clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u22	Madam President! To this second question: the seriousness of the grounds for dismissal must always be assessed in terms of its seriousness. For example, action against an employer’s order is a valid reason for dismissal, but the fulfilment of the grounds for dismissal requires serious violations of the employer’s regulations. This is always an interpretation, and it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u25	Madam President! I am well aware of the need for the government and companies to lower the employment threshold. It is easy to understand at least as well the concerns of employees if the protection against dismissal is undermined. Like my fellow Members, I ask why we cannot introduce measures to reduce this threshold of employment on which we agree. Why is there no significant expansion of the wage subsidy? We know how effective it is. Why not make it easier to hire the first or second employee, for example, by paying part of the social security contributions? We know how effective it is. The probationary period has been extended to six months and we were reasonably unanimous on this, but otherwise the employment contract law is rather vague. Why not clarify what is meant by a serious breach of instructions and so on? We have good means — why the government wants to choose such a way,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u27	Madam President! That is where I tried to list the other ways in which the government has decided in the budget debate in relation to this pay subsidy. This list could be continued, among other things, by the decision to raise the 100 % wage subsidy ceiling for these organisations to 4000. I'll meet you here. And I just listed how we support companies through pay subsidies. If we start looking for a consensus here... It is, of course, wonderful if we could find that consensus in this way, but if this government had waited for a consensus on employment measures, I bet that many measures would not have been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u29	Madam President! Employees are an important factor for a successful company and perhaps the most important factor in many cases. However, in SMEs, this legal competence is weaker than in large companies, and this is well-founded in the context of this situation, where there is a need for new employees in almost all SMEs. I believe that the government has not gone to any dispute on this matter, as was claimed here on the left. I think it is important that we safeguard the conditions for action in SMEs, and the starting point must be that this lowers the employment threshold. At least I see the situation as being not a termination law, but rather an encouragement for hiring new workers. I ask the government: how important are SMEs today in terms of economic growth?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u30	Madam President! The SME sector is the sector in which jobs are created today. All credit to the big companies. It's great that we have them. It is excellent that they hold onto those existing jobs. But that's where new jobs come from. Almost 94% of all enterprises are in this SME sector,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u31	Irade the Talman! It is true that the expert panel of the Economist machine found that this is likely to increase employment and productivity. Four times as many felt the opposite. On the one hand, there are problems, as Mr Andersson and Mr Ihalainen have pointed out, and, in fact, the proposal by Mr Ihalainen to support the recruitment of the first employee may well be worth considering. We know that, at the moment, when an entrepreneur hires the first one, he is likely to go without paying for some time. But to the question: However, this is perhaps more of a stick than a carrot. Have you considered the carrot aspect? Has it been considered that unemployment aid or employment services would also be considered here, and has it been examined who is mainly concerned? Have we considered the age distribution or gender distribution of the workers to whom this would apply in practice? Has this been considered?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u32	Madam President! Yes, it has been considered and tried to build such a package in the budget line that it will take some time to look at it. We have taken a number of measures specifically on the carrot side, for example, in order to alleviate the shortage of experts, real money has been put there to meet these challenges, which has been raised many times. We do not have the labour force and then the need for labour, and we are, of course, trying to do something about this. Decisions were made to identify problems of ability to work. I would argue that these are huge solutions that this government alone will not be able to bring to the finish, but that the baton will remain with the next government when it comes to solving the hard core of unemployment, the situation of the people, including those who are part of the workforce who are required to participate in these efforts. And I would say that this proposal is also relevant to the recruitment of its first employee, because the threshold, the risk, is falling.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u33	Mr President! At the moment, there are 115,000 more Finns working than there were when this government started. This has been achieved by making both work and work more profitable, and all the individual reforms that the government has brought here in the legislation have been opposed by the opposition. Apart from the competitiveness pact, the demars did not oppose it, even though it sometimes seems to be forgotten, but the Left Alliance also opposed it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u36	Madam President! This question came unsolicited and unexpectedly, but the government is going to continue the work to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u37	Madam President! Even the government, in its own statements, cannot show that this weakening of the protection against dismissal, laying off with a face-to-face factor, would improve employment — not even in its own reports. But the even bigger question is that what is the credibility of the Prime Minister, the credibility of the labour market organisations. The government forced the labour market organisations into a kiky agreement, the Prime Minister went through the governments of the trade unions, and it was agreed and promised that, when the competitiveness agreement came into effect — quite rightly, Mr Satonen, the Left-wing Union really opposed it here, because we do not accept, among other things, cuts in the holiday money for low-paid workers in the public sector — that is all. Since then, an active model has been introduced, which has been a gross cut from the unemployed, and we are now bringing about a reduction in the protection against dismissal. Both are contrary to what you have promised to the social partners, Prime Minister Sipilä. How do you assess your own credibility as an agreement with the social partners?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u38	Madam President! I have never made a promise that the government will stop employing people. Absolutely not. The Government's working list will have until the end the measures that will bring very strong employment development, good employment development across Finland from Lapland to Satakunta and Uusimaa, all of Finland, to continue and strengthen throughout the parliamentary term, and we will try to make the next government's mission much easier than this government's task in this respect. If the next government is seeking a 75% employment rate, we are well on our way to it as soon as the government changes. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u39	I admit another supplementary question, because all opposition groups had a slightly different question and I want everyone to get questions right away from the end of the day. One further question on this subject from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u40	Mr President! First of all, it must be said to the Prime Minister that, in comparison with our main competitors, Germany or Sweden, for example, even our individual-based protection against dismissal is not particularly strong — this is only to be corrected, and this is reflected in the OECD report. But, Mr President, if this government really is going to unilaterally take through such a deeply unfair proposal which, as it goes through the night, undermines the employment security of hundreds of thousands of hard-working workers in small businesses, it is an historic thing. And if, after all this, you still do this — forced laws, holiday allowance cuts, double cuts in unemployment security and active models — then it is no wonder that this stirs up emotions. The only reason for the government was that this would increase employment. Now I ask, Mr Lindström, when you have ordered two reports from Etla and the Finnish Labour Institute: whether there is clear evidence from these studies and, if not, whether it is not time to re-evaluate them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u41	Madam President! Yes, we've ordered clarifications and listened to experts. These opinions are divided in favour and against quite clearly. Even after these studies, the government believes that this will have a lower impact than the employment threshold. That's why we're taking this forward. Representative Arhinmäki, this is exactly what I meant that this kind of face-to-face argumentation is taking place in this debate. Even with my face, no one gets fired after this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u44	Let me ask you one more question. Congressman Elo, you had the main question. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u45	Mr President! Of course, it must be said out loud that Minister of Labour Jari Lindström has done an excellent job if we look at the figures: more than 110 000 jobs. During the last term of government, on the watch of the demos, more than 100,000 unemployed. [Caribbean interlude call] Yes, a citizen, a Finnish, should now ask whether it is worth putting blue or red to do this job. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u46	Madam President! There's no law on face-to-face. We have an ILO agreement, we have a social charter, we have a lot of international agreements — as you well know — which list the criteria that are not grounds for dismissal. This is the way the government is going, of course. We have the sole objective of reducing the employment threshold, and that is what is behind it, and that is what we are doing. I would like to remind you that not only are we working on facilitating individual dismissals, but Rauno Vanhanen and Katarina Murto are also working on the Yt law, and one of the measures there is to make collective dismissal more difficult, so that this would be balanced. Now that you are talking about this, that one is easy and the other is difficult — or I am talking about it — it is really easy to make collective redundancies in Finland, and we need to find out what can be done to balance these issues. I would also like to see some kind of value given to this on the side of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u47	Mr President! Professor Seppo Koskinen, a respected professor of labour law, estimates that with a 99.9% probability this government proposal cannot go through — that is, a respected professor of labour law. But I will now intervene in your answer. You, Minister Lindström, have just told us that you believe and the government believes that this will go through. Mr Lindtman was right there asking whether these two reports from Mr Etla and the Labour Institute, whom you have ordered and which you have received, clearly support the fact that this proposal of yours will improve employment. I want an answer to that. Now tell the people and this Parliament: do these reports make it clear that this will improve employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u48	Madam President! Of course we have been through this and, as I said, there are such opinions and positions that they do not support and, on the one hand, they support, i.e. this feedback, which these reports have become, is shared. We are currently going through the commentary and we are going to seriously see if there are any elements that we have not been able to take into account. Then we will finalise this proposal, which will come to Parliament, and then it will be in the hands of Parliament. This is the government's plan, and this is the way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u49	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. We will certainly come back to this subject many times, and if there is time, then at the end of this Question Time, but now let us go to other questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u50	The Finnish People's Parliament Group, representative Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u51	Mr President! Viking Line is one of Finland’s largest recipients of state subsidies for companies, and yet it builds its new ship, a cruiser worth at least 200 million, in China. Why didn't the government intervene? I believe that this is still a question to be asked, because the basic Finns believe that the main task of the state is to defend Finnish jobs and industry in Finland. The cruiser could have been built in Rauma, Rauma Shipyard. It could probably also have been built in Turku, or at least at the Turku sister shipyard in Germany with Finnish subcontractors. Remember that the Turku shipyard was only recently revived with state money. Is it not incredible, then, that Finns are now building their own ships in China? So I ask the Minister: why did the government not promote negotiations between Viking Line and Finnish shipyards?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u52	Madam President! The representative asks a question about Viking Line. The State does not own the first percent of Viking Line. They operate in a completely free market. The government had no knowledge of this overall acquisition either. So there was no factor that we would have intervened. I would find it very strange that the state should intervene in the procurement of an individual company in such a situation, and I certainly do not regard it as an appropriate procedure for such an economy as represented by Finland as a free market economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u53	Mr President! The biggest recipient of business aid — is the market economy not quite a relative thing from their point of view? But your answer was quite straightforward, and I understand that you have no knowledge, you have no desire, you may not even have the ability to intervene in such a matter. Instead, the Finns of Peru have a desire, [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u54	Madam President! Finnish shipbuilding expertise is at a very high level and I do not think it is going to China. The Chinese do it with their own expertise. When the representative referred to the ability of the Minister to do so, I do not have the ability to intervene in the trade of an individual company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u55	Green Parliamentary Group, represented by Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u56	Madam President! The well-being of the climate, the environment and nature is a condition and a condition for all other well-being, and I therefore feel it is important to point out in this Chamber too that the follow-up report of the UN Convention on Climate Change in Finland reveals alarming news. The Government’s decision to increase forest felling is to thwart all Finnish efforts to combat climate change. Unsustainably large fellings result in Finland's total emissions increasing by 30 per cent from the 2015 level by 2030. That is what is happening, even if every further action proposed by the government to reduce climate emissions is being implemented. At a time when Finland should do everything in its power to reduce climate emissions, the government is on the contrary increasing them. I ask Prime Minister Juha Sipilä directly: will the government withdraw its decision to increase forest felling, or will you continue to close your eyes to climate change that threatens our society as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u57	Mr President! The Government does not decide the level of felling of Finnish forests. The government is not a timber trading party. Instead, the Government decides on Finland’s climate policy, and the Government is committed to the Paris Agreement. The Government is committed to reducing energy production and industrial emissions by 43% by 2030, together with EU countries. We are committed to reducing emissions from agriculture, heating and transport, outside the emissions trading sector, by 39% by that year. We are also committed to maintaining the carbon sink level that we will report and deliver to the EU as a benchmark for 2030. I would ask the representative to take a look at that report and its authors, which are dozens of officials, and not the blog article that has been written about it by the Hutai. You can contact the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry or the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for more information on what is wrong with that news.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u58	Mr President! First of all, the Government's own report on the climate and energy strategy shows that the Government's own efforts to mitigate climate change are nothing. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u59	Mr President! I would urge Mr Aalto to calm down and not to give false proof of government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u66	As I said, this time the questions of all opposition groups will be taken. Next up is the Swedish Parliament Group, represented by Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u67	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Academician Ilkka Niiniluoto expressed his concerns about the future of knowledge and understanding at Yle’s A-studio a few days ago. He said in the debate that ten years ago he was unable to predict that fake media and misconceptions would become more common. The RKP fully agrees with the academic and former chancellor that science, research and education are things that should not be compromised. Unfortunately, the government has slowly realised this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u68	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that in the budget debate last week, the government actually increased the Finnish research and innovation budget by more than EUR 100 million. Of course, it is an important contribution to research and innovation, to Finland's growth and future, and also crucial to the challenges that have been discussed here today: combating climate change, development of inequalities, promoting employment and growth. [Left: How much did you cut before?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u69	Värderade Talman! Oberoende av Vilken utbildningsform vi talar om så är signalen alldeles entydig: man kräver, vill ha och effectlyser långsiktig finansiering. Below the project och pilot och så vidare är delvis bra, men när de ersätter långsiktig basfinansiering, grundfinansiering blir det ett problemm.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u70	Mr President! Finland is one of the most public funds for higher education in relation to the population today and from now on. In addition, we have built an ambitious vision for 2030, which aims to ensure that in the future, in 2030, at least half of young adults have completed a university degree and that Finland's research and innovation budget, public and private together, would form a whole of 4% of our GDP. These objectives are precisely long-term objectives and I hope that Parliament will commit itself to them over the term of government. In the same way, the story of Finnish comprehensive schools as the world's most equal is wanted to be strengthened. Today, under the leadership of the Finnish National Board of Education, a wide-ranging involvement effort has been launched to gather ideas from the field — teachers, the school world, parents, all stakeholders — on how to strengthen equality in comprehensive school in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u71	Next question: the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u72	Madam President! In the budget debate, the government decided on the agricultural crisis package. A very necessary and good decision. However, the crisis package does not solve the long-term problems of Finnish agriculture. Primary food producers only receive a fraction of what the consumer pays for the final product in the store. The role of producers in the negotiations is very weak when the conditions are dictated by the large retailers and the food industry. According to a recent survey by Yle, 90% of Finns are willing to pay more for a litre of milk if they know that the increase will definitely go to the producers. Mr Karhinen is working on how to improve the profitability of agriculture. According to Karhinen, relations between the various actors in the food chain have become very inflamed. How does the government react to the remarks made by the liquidator, and what action can the government take to improve the position of primary food producers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u73	Madam President! This is an extremely legitimate question. It is a very happy thing that Finns are so big on the side of Finnish food and Finnish food production. It's a huge number. The concern we all have at the moment on this issue is precisely the poor profitability of primary food production, that is, agriculture. It is a matter that everyone is aware of, and the government in the budget debate also contributed to this, as Mr Östman said here. Well, it is not enough to improve the long-term and sustainable profitability of agriculture, it is clear, but it is a very necessary hand-out here. The solution is found only on the market and only on the market. The market has been distorted, the buyer's power, the bargaining power, has slowly drifted towards trade. That's obvious, too. And on this subject too, the government made one clear, concrete move:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u74	Mr President! The fact is that the situation in the Finnish food industry and on the trade side has long been as Mr Karhinen describes. The food industry, or I would say in particular the retail chains, is doing relatively well, but the primary producers are in trouble, now also because of the weak harvests. But in this situation, when Finns are so positive that they are willing to pay more when money goes directly to primary producers, would it not be time for us to say, "How dare you?" How dare you. And you dare. And this spike is not for the government. Everyone can guess which way that spike goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u75	Madam President! Mountain Counsellor Karhinen has already reported his own observations to the public, and one of those findings was the lack of confidence in the food chain, which plagues the chain so that it does not produce the added value that its chain can produce. We have to get rid of this. Yesterday I said at Yleisradio’s A-studio that the strongest must start the work by which this confidence in the food chain, the 340,000 Finnish food chain, can be achieved, and that must be done now. We strongly support that this will happen. Here you have to look at each chain in the mirror and do more together to increase your trust. And we must remember that Finnish food, by the way, is a different product than that imported from abroad. Check out the Food Fact website produced by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, all good Finns. It's a fact-based collection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u76	And another member of the opposition group. Mr Väyrynen, you also had a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u77	Mr President! Finland has sought very close cooperation with France in the development of a common defence policy and defence policy for the European Union. This has meant, among other things, providing support for the French intervention initiative, which contributes towards a strong crisis management outside the Union. On the other hand, Finland, together with France, has sought to give the Treaty assistance clause the interpretation that Member States are also obliged to provide military assistance to other Member States. Mr Prime Minister, in last Saturday's TV interview you said that the aid clause is very close to Article 5 of NATO, but the European Union does not have a mechanism and structures to provide assistance. In reply to the journalist's question, you said that you felt that it would be in Finland's interest to have mechanisms and structures
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u78	Mr President! This is certainly not a question of developing a military alliance. I have described this in such a way that it would be extraordinary if we went to help a country that is in an economic crisis or an immigration crisis but did not go to aid by all the means available — as stated in Article 42.7 — if that country were to face an armed attack. After all, France made a request for assistance on the basis of Article 42.7 and Finland took it first, and we freed the French troops from that Lebanon with our own peacekeeping forces. The mechanism we have at the moment is that the two Member States agree with each other what that is in practice, and in this case the request addressed to us was the release of those troops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u79	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u80	Mr President! Indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy we will be able to get more detailed information about this bill. The aim is to lighten the environmental permit procedure by creating a lighter notification procedure for activities whose environmental impacts are not great. During the consultation, this proposal received a lot of criticism, among other things, about the restriction of consultation and the right to appeal, and it is good that the government's proposal has improved in this regard since the consultation, but I would draw attention to the fact that it is possible that it is now, however, complicated, even if the aim is to simplify. These procedures are already being simplified by the reforms of the Environmental Protection Act, so it may be that the real thing that is being done by this government proposal that is now under discussion has already been done. But, indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we will look into this matter and carefully examine it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u81	Mr President! Indeed, the government's line of action during this parliamentary term has been to significantly facilitate different standards and regulations, and this has progressed with determination, especially with regard to this environmental authorisation and these various permits for business activities. However, I assume that the level of environmental protection has not been reduced and that even with this bill of legislation will not be weakened. On the other hand, where there has been no substantial change in the operation and these certain limits of activity are set, the actual environmental permit is not needed and this declaration is sufficient. I think that this is a very good development. However, these major activities, which can be considered to have greater environmental impacts, are then still covered by the environmental permit and, of course, the largest of them also in the environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u82	Mr President! Of course, it is good that things are made smoother and that things are smoothed out. That is a very good expression, and this streamlining has already taken place all the way. However, it would now be good to assess gradually the importance of environmental legislation in the sense that, year by year, this so-called streamlining of the law has taken place, that is to say, deregulation, and to what extent they will accumulate in such a way that it is beginning to play a role in environmental protection. I would ask the Minister how much consideration has been given to this point in the Ministry of the Environment? I remember that some time ago, when we in the committee have dealt with these issues, there has come to be some concern about the fact that it would be good at some point to look closely at the impact of all the work that has been done in the name of this streamlining, in practice, on environmental protection. Secondly, the way in which it is ensured that the right of citizens to participate in environmental decision-making is adequately safeguarded, as it were, not only in the chambers of civil servants but also in the public debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u83	Mr President! Indeed, this bill is about meeting environmental standards and standards, but with a lighter administrative procedure. This has been the policy of this government's streamlining. We are not compromising the level of environmental protection, not the level of protection of human health, but we are trying to make administrative procedures simpler and lighter. And here's a very clear, big difference. Just as we did in Question Time: there is a big difference between a country report under the climate agreement or someone's interpretation of it. That country report is a description of 2015 by dozens of officials under the direction of Statistics Finland. I know it very well. I've signed that foreword myself. Instead, if we start to argue something about this report, which is based on the interpretation of someone else, which is extremely flawed, then it is also worth the attention of the opposition to what is quoted. This is the kind of thing that we must now coldly assess so that we do not consciously blur, but keep the level of environmental protection high, as is the case in Finland, but nevertheless take these administrative measures, for example here on the legislative side, in order to make it easier to achieve the required level, without unnecessary administrative burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u85	Mr President! I think that Mr Tiilikainen responded extremely well, and perhaps Mr Myller's concerns are somewhat over-compensated. After all, Finland had about 15,000 different environmental permits at the beginning of this reign. Now, after this reform, we come to 11,000 environmental permits. Other Nordic countries go at 3000-5000 levels. So there's something to unpack, just to get there to the other Nordic level. This is where I would like to thank you, Minister: I believe that this work has started extremely well, and it is here that all nature values have been taken into account, and it is through it that better and smoother regulation is being made, and that is certainly one of the most successful projects in this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u86	Madam President! Indeed, as has been said in the previous speech, we are now making sense of this procedure of environmental authorisation. It is only natural that someone who is building a herd or something that is virtually non-existent in terms of environmental impact should be allowed to do so by means of a notification procedure. There must be more and more of this kind of procedure. I don't know a single person in Finland who wants to get dirty and ruin his own neighborhood or neighborhood or neighborhood. It's absurd. It's crazy. Nobody wants to do that. This is why the government has been determined throughout this parliamentary term to dismantle red tape. Mrs Wallinheim well described this, compared our situation with the situation in Sweden, and we should go in the same direction. In matters such as this, where little or no important issues are being built, this means that we must move forward, as the Minister said. It is strange that the construction of a barn today is becoming as strict as the construction of a nuclear power plant. Some say that the same amount of paper is needed, so there is something strange about these two things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u87	Mr President! I really do not believe that anyone can object to making the various administrative issues more flexible and smoother. But now that a different piece of legislation has been taking place for quite a long time now, my question was: Have we been able to find out or to find out in the Ministry of the Environment what their combined effect is? The Minister said that the level of environmental protection was not to be undermined. But can it be done not by means of it but, as it were, by the combination of the dismantling of these different standards? I am not just talking about this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u88	Mr President! In addition to this bill, I do not believe that it is a very controversial matter in itself, that, in the case of projects whose environmental impact is limited, such a lighter procedure could be justified, but we in the Committee on the Environment must consider carefully whether this will be further complicated because it will then have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, which project is subject to this lighter procedure and which then needs these authorisation procedures, and whether it may then become legal disputes, for example, and then prolonging these projects. But as far as forest sinks and climate are concerned, I would point out that the government's own impact assessments, which have been related to the climate statement and the KAISU climate programme, state that if forest fellings grow as planned, it will eat up the benefits of emission reductions in other sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u89	Madam President! Thank you, Minister! Mr Tiilikainen, under your leadership, good, determined work has been done on this particular income angle, not to compromise environmental protection, but to reduce the administrative burden and the bureaucracy that we have. At the moment, we still have a significant variety of investments and construction projects, bigger and smaller, in the various pitfalls of authorisation, and it has been good that some reduction has also been achieved by this government. We even have such almost professional complainers who complain about each step, and in this way many projects have been without authorisation for a long time. I personally support this dismantling of standards and, in fact, the spirit of being allowed to do so. It is a good approach to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u90	Mr President! During this period of government, this dismantling of unnecessary standards has been an important set of measures, which has now been taken by the public in various fields and in various ministries. Indeed, the work is only just beginning. In particular, these environmental permit issues have also been raised on the business side in the sense that very many projects will be delayed and prolonged and even not started because the environmental permit process will last so long and they know and have heard from the authorities that there are not enough resources. I would have asked the Minister about this: are there any ideas that these resources should be sufficiently increased, that appropriate environmental permits should be dealt with? Secondly, then, really, that it is good that then, in such so-called clear cases, this notification procedure goes on more in all other areas. All in all, this is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u91	Madam President! Of course, I am not in favour of any unnecessary regulation or additional bureaucracy either. To this extent, it is quite understandable that there is a considerable imbalance in the regulation of the permit: we can build an entire nuclear power plant with an industrial infra for hundreds of hectares of power before the plant itself even has a permit to build, but the builder of the barn may have to wait years before he can shovel the ground. But when it comes to this bill, it inevitably comes to mind whether it is somewhat unnecessary in that it will actually add to the complexity of environmental regulation by replacing another new process. After all, in practice, the Government Programme's entries during this government period, as amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, have already removed a lot of activities from that authorisation procedure. And, of course, on a case-by-case basis, consideration will continue to be given to whether an environmental permit is needed, whether a notification procedure is required. I'm a little worried if you're going to lose it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u92	Madam President! Perhaps one of the clearest areas of success for this government has been this constant progress towards smoothing out, which means that 300 things have already been put to the finish. I welcome the fact that the administrative burden is becoming ever lighter in many administrative sectors and that a number of authorisation procedures have been introduced into the notification procedure. This has, as has been said here, also been a wish of the people. This proposal is based on the reflection of the working group of Minister Tarast, and what I am particularly pleased about here is that the excellent opinion of the working group has been taken seriously and is being taken forward. I believe that this will also have the effect in the future that the work of the various working groups, which will be set up, will be taken more seriously when it is seen that they will also lead to constant change and good things over time. Thank you for this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u93	After this part of the debate, we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u94	Madam President! This dismantling of standards has been one of the key tasks of this government. The idea of being allowed to do so, that is to say, it has been courageously set off to dismantle unnecessary regulation and standards, in fact, throughout all the operation. In fact, on this environmental side, but also on the construction and housing side, in this whole area, as Mrs Wallinheim, who has been one of the pioneers of such a policy, pointed out, we have an exceptionally large amount of this regulation, and it has been a good thing that these measures have now been taken under the leadership of Environment Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen. We have started to streamline the licensing process and, as I said here, we still have a great deal of different investments in the authorisation phase. In fact, some of the work of this current government has already produced results and is reflected in these statistics. In 2016, the total value of investments awaiting a permit decision by the authorities was around EUR 2.9 billion, while during the previous government the figure was still well higher, by 3.6 billion, which means that it has clearly been possible to make progress here, which means that fewer investments have been made in the queues of permits, even though at the same time the investment activity of companies has increased. This means that authorisation procedures will be speeded up. But the lines are still long. For example, the average processing time for state environmental permit applications was over 17 months for Regional State Administrative Agencies, and this is certainly a long time. Now some of it has been calculated. The ratings given by enterprises improved during the first three years of this Board of Directors in all areas of the public administration treatment compared to the survey during the last Government term. In particular, the bureaucracy associated with the initial phase of the application for authorisation has been reduced. About a third thought the situation would be good, while earlier the figures were clearly higher. However, the overall picture of the functioning of licensing systems remains rather critical. Almost 80% of the respondents to this extensive EK study felt and felt that reforms should be continued, and it is good that this is also the case. This proposal is about one small part, and it makes sense for us to make determined progress on this particular type of issue. In general, entrepreneurs still see complaints to courts as a problem. Some 43% considered current practices to be bad and only 17% considered them to be good. And that too has now been addressed during this reign, which is to say that this right of appeal has also been limited. At present, the right of appeal is limited to those who are clearly concerned and is certainly in line with the general sense of law. Personally, Mr President, I welcome the fact that we are making the authorisation procedure smooth from planning to licensing itself, and one good example is these licensing packages, where in fact all the officials have been brought to the same round table. These are extremely good experiences. In other words, we have gradually got rid of the fact that every official makes decisions in a different place, and in the worst cases they still complain about the decisions taken by another official. Now, even large permit packages have been made available in many places in a whole new way to move ahead with a much faster timetable. Mr President! As Minister Tiilikainen said, it is important that we do not compromise the level of environmental protection, but that administration and unnecessary bureaucracy should be dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u95	Madam President! Indeed, the dismantling of red tape is an extremely important issue for this nation. Think now of the Finnish state as an area within the borders, which is the least populated country in the European Union, by far the least populated country, and yet we have created a huge bureaucracy for construction. Sometimes it feels like building a small cottage or a small warehouse or some other building is going to be very difficult and takes a long time to get permission. In other words, the dismantling of this bureaucracy, which is what this government proposal is all about, is extremely good and to be welcomed. And, indeed, from the point of view of the life of a normal person, for example, the fact that the construction of animal shelters under this law is going into the notification procedure is a matter of extreme relief, for example for farmers who want to act in such a way that animals have good conditions. At the same time, red tape can be dismantled. I very much hope, Mr President, that Mr Tiilikainen, even before the end of the term of office, which still remains until the elections for some time, will be determined to push this idea forward, that the environmental permit procedure will be streamlined and speeded up all the time. After all, Finland has received numerous condemnations from the European Court of Human Rights that our judicial processes and licensing processes will last for an unauthorized period of time. It cannot be that a project is standing there for years in the wheel of bureaucracy and that person loses his rights and, at worst, a lot of money when he is waiting for a legal authorisation for a project. Finally, Mr President, the fact that these authorisations are currently pending for various projects at different levels of the authorities and also in the courts waiting for a court ruling is that the total value of these projects has been calculated to be in billions of euros. In other words, we must try to dismantle this unnecessary bureaucracy. We have clear environmental protection laws and emission regulations and so on and so on. So there is no danger, and then, of course, if anyone breaks the laws, there are systems in this country for that too, so that is not in this wild jungle but in normal everyday life. Let us allow those people who want to invest and build it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u96	At this point, I will give Mr Tiilikainen a reply. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u97	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the positive feedback that this bill has received, but also for the concerns that arise here, that it is certain that the level of environmental protection will not be undermined. That must be in our minds all the time, and this idea also goes forward. And just as Mrs Hoskonen hoped that there would be something else to reduce the burden of authorisation or bureaucracy or administrative burden, it is true that we are still going to have this kind of legislation that will make it easier for Parliament to deal with during the autumn. But, Mr President, I will also take this opportunity — unfortunately, I will soon have to leave for other tasks — to take a small example of this streamlining without reducing the level of environmental protection. There will be a government proposal to facilitate the incineration of farm animal manure on the list in a few minutes. This is the eternal question of whether horse manure can be smoked or not. Well horse manure is a good soil improver, and there are good nutrients in it when you find the place and field where it is applied, but unfortunately many stables do not have such a reasonable distance away, and in the past this burning of horse manure has required compliance with waste incineration legislation and continuous monitoring of emissions measurements and so on, so now with this presentation, the amendment of the EU legislation we have previously been driving will be brought into national law and will significantly facilitate the incineration of horse manure. And attention: it is not a question of some way of calculating these limit values for combustion, but, yes, still in these same plants, where horse manure can be burned with other fuels in the future, there are very strict general emission requirements for energy production. So this is an activity of this kind, and I am, of course, pleased that this matter, which is also included in the government programme, is now moving forward. Mr President! With these beginnings, and hopefully we will still have time to bring some such proposals from the Ministry of the Environment to the House later on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u98	Mr President! We are now dealing with a government proposal which has indeed been long awaited. This is therefore a smoother regulation project, whereby some of the activities currently subject to authorisation, which are not subject to an environmental permit under EU legislation, are now transferred to the notification procedure. In practice, these activities are now subject to authorisation, with limited environmental impacts. Most of these relate to animal shelters and, for industry, to relatively small-scale activities in the chemical and food industries. Therefore, important steps are being taken in the right direction, and for that, special thanks are being given to the government and also to the Group of Government Parties, which has been sitting in this parliamentary term, where it is precisely the rationalization of this regulation that has been raised. The work has not been wasted. And a special thank you also to Minister Tiilikainen, who has certainly been one of the most active ministers in this area. Mr President! The need for such streamlining of licensing practices has been widely identified. There are still some 15,000 environmental-related permit processes in Finland and some 11,000 after the amendment proposed in the proposal. By comparison: Sweden, among other things, can manage with around 4,000 permits. At its lowest level, EU legislation would require that the environmental issues of companies in Finland should only be dealt with with with with an environmental permit for around 1000 activities. So there is still a lot to be done. Partly because of this extensive licensing bureaucracy, Finland's figures for the duration of the permit processes are so far depressing to read. The processing times of permits granted by municipalities vary from four to 14 months. In regional government agencies, the processing period is approximately 11 to 17 months. In many EU countries processing times are significantly shorter. In addition, for example, there is a legal 8-month processing period in the Netherlands where the company receives both the environmental permit and other key permits needed for the operation from a single window. I believe that this is within the limits of the possibilities in Finland too. Long queues of permits mean that Finland provides compensation to key competitor countries. According to a study carried out by the EK in 2017, we have about EUR 2.9 billion worth of domestic investment, and a whole number of new jobs are in the queues of permits. The unmanageable foreign investment decisions which are being undermined by our excessive bureaucracy will come to the fore. Mr President! It is quite clear that if we want to maintain growth in this country, we need to make these licensing processes more fluent. True, this government is running out of time for this to happen. But I hope that the government that will start next spring will be able to continue the good development that has now begun in its own programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u99	Madam President! There is one more aspect that has not really been taken into account, and that is the way in which these environmental permits and these authorisations are paid. The situation has so far been that, when the authority granting this authorisation, the Regional State Administrative Agency in most cases, has dealt with the permit, a certain fee has, of course, been imposed on the applicant for the permit. Now that the largest number of permits for the notification procedure is made up of livestock farms and livestock shelters, it is worth pointing out that the burden of payment will certainly be reduced for many operators, cattle farmers. Now that the processing of notifications is passed on to the municipal authorities, of course, the municipality will, in accordance with its own tax practices, impose these handling fees, but it can be assumed that a very large number of operators will now reduce the licence fees from up to several thousand euros down. I do think that this is a good development, especially as we are all aware of the very difficult and difficult situation of agriculture and agricultural production, food production. When investments are planned, the expansion of production or the further development and development of production are planned, then certainly every euro, especially the thousands of euros, will have an impact on the outlook and on the precise calculations of the kind of investment that will be undertaken or on the kind of development that will take place. In this respect too, the government and the Minister are: In this respect, Mr Tiilikainen deserves to be commended for taking this forward and we will now be able to deal with it here in Parliament and in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u100	Madam President! Actually, as I listened to the debate, I was excited to come and give this speech. When it comes to beginnings of standards, one other thing must also be noted that sometimes standards are on the side of an individual person. In other words, standards are not in themselves just a burden and a burden on agriculture, for example. We are talking about forest owners, for example, who sometimes find themselves in such a situation, especially at the time when we were very busy searching for Natura sites and, so to speak, expropriating them in the context of nature conservation. It was a good solution to raise natural values, but at that point an official exercised his own authority and that individual person no longer had any standards to safeguard it. In other words, we have to see that standards are not just bad; there is the other side of who complies with standards and what sort of regulation is being made. Smoothing at this point is good, but you have to have the courage to look to the other side too, that is to say, always see what it means to break the standard where the economic effects are. With reference to what the representative has just said: it may be that this government could still make permit fees tax-deductible for the investment, and then, in a way, it would be possible to move on from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u101	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u102	Madam President! The performance on this issue at Urho Kekkonen National Park seems to be quite unproblematic. It is therefore a question of changing land use in such a way that 9.3 hectares are taken out of the national park and 198 hectares are then added. The reason is that there is a desire to build certain buildings in the Tankavaara nature reserve, which then serve tourism and, we can also see, these natural values. As a rule, it is not possible to build in the national park area, and that is why this change is made. Over these national parks, which we now have 40: During this two-term term, I myself have been allowed to set up several in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and it is great that there have been more. There have also been more hectares. Of course, it puts increasing pressure on Metsähallitus, whose euros have not quite followed in all respects, so that these hiking networks and lava and desert houses can also be maintained. Last autumn, in the Committee on Finance, we worked with Heinonen and managed to earmark EUR 100000 for the recovery of the debts of the derelicts. It was a step in the right direction, and now the budget debate provided EUR 1.9 million for the renovation and maintenance of hiking and recreational areas. The main aim is to improve these routes. Very good. Indeed, the number of visitors: 2001 National Parks visited 850,000 people, 2017 was 3,100,000 that was quite spectacular. They are well-invested euros, and the health impact is significant, and the local economy has 10 to 15 times the euro back, to the local economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u103	Madam President! We have dealt with these creations in time when I was in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and now in the Section on the Environment and Housing in the Committee on Finance. As Mr Kiuru pointed out earlier, there is a general concern at the moment that Metsähallitus' resources for nature services are not sufficient to maintain the infrastructure of 40 national parks. Now, of course, there has been one unfortunate accident in these areas this summer, in which there has probably also been some misbehavior or failure to give instructions, but, despite this, the work must continue to be carried out in order to keep up-to-date with the longwoods and other structures, bearing in mind that every euro that we put in place will then, for its part, come back through the local economy and vitality. This proposal is only about taking away a small part of Urho Kekkonen's park and making it possible to build fixed structures. It serves precisely this Urho Kekkonen National Park, which is a significant area, which is only a small part of the land and nearly 200 hectares of land, then that area of Suomun Ville becomes part of the National Park. But why I actually asked to speak is the growing white-tail deer and deer population in our national parks. The inevitable future governments are faced with the need to discuss the need to allow limited responsible hunting in Finland's national parks, including Southern Finland. We have such fragmented parts of these Southern Finland national parks that there is no natural and strong strain of predators that should, for example, be kept at a reasonable level. There are already significant transport risks in the vicinity of these regions. I hope that this debate will take place in Finland. We have numerous examples from the world of how national parks can function responsibly. Finnish hunters always function in an excellent way and would be able to ensure that good, vibrant stocks were maintained in these areas as well and that nothing would grow too big. In fact, there is also a problem here because Finns have been placed in a completely unequal position. We have these rights in other national parks, and southern hunters are in a much weaker position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u104	Madam President! I share the concerns expressed or referred to above regarding the financing of the maintenance of various national parks structures. It is, of course, a happy thing that we have been able to establish a new national park here in Hossa during this reign, and the previous one was probably South Konnevesi National Park there in the border between Central Finland and Savo, and it has taken its place among the national parks and also brought vitality to the local municipalities, the municipality of Konnevesi and the Rautalampi and the region. But this is a growing problem in the future, because we have not, however, been able to increase this funding for maintenance in a sufficient way, even though a little relief has also been obtained during this parliamentary term. But the purpose of this government proposal before us is indeed to separate from the national park such a small area of the Tankavaara nature centre and then expand this national park in other respects. I had the opportunity from the beginning of the week to visit that region, and I was also there to discuss it with representatives of the Sodankylä municipality, and although I am not a member of the Parliament of the constituency of Lapland, I am really glad that this is going forward, because these representatives of the municipality of Sodankylä really thought this was an important project. The development of the Tankavaara area is now possible in a completely new way. It has not been possible now that it has been part of the national park, but then Nature Services have not wanted to maintain this nature centre but rather drive it down. In future, it seems likely that this will be carried forward with the help of potential entrepreneurs and that this centre of Tankavaara will be developed further in tourism, now with local forces. And they very much hope that this government proposal will be dealt with quickly, and I hope that it will now proceed in the appropriate way in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u105	Mr President! I very much hope that these concerns about the clear under-budgeting of Metsähallitus' nature services will be taken into account when preparing next year's budget for the rest of the year. In this Urho Kekkonen National Park — established in the Sompio Lappi district of Inari, Sodankylä and Savukoski as early as 83 C.E. — the nature centre of Tankavaara does not mean that Nature Services do not want to maintain activities, but simply cannot afford to maintain activities even if they wish to. But gladly, there is a business that is really getting started in the area of the Tankavaara Nature Centre, and this bill to make this possible is well prepared and supported. All the commentators seem to have been largely positive about this proposal, and the Finnish Environment Agency, among other things, has considered this compensatory area of 198 hectares Suomun Ville, or Suomujokivarre, to be of nature importance, and it also has cultural heritage values, which are thus included in the national park. In general, it is also good to say here that we do well to recognise that nature conservation is economic, profitable and, in many ways, otherwise successful. I myself visited the newly established Hossa National Park in the summer, which has been a state recreation area for a long time in exactly the same way. At the Hossa Nature Centre I heard that since the establishment of the National Park, the number of visitors has doubled in a very short time, and this is beginning to appear and feel there too in regional economies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u106	Mr President! As has been said here, this government proposal is uncontroversial and is to be welcomed, particularly from the point of view of nature tourism and, in other words, for the protection of natural values. The property to be connected to the National Park is a scenic and diverse ridge area along the Suomu River. So it's a pretty good investment in the National Park. All in all, national parks are one of the most valuable gems in Finland. When, among other things, Hossa National Park was established, several representatives here said that, for example, when tourists from outside Finland are interested in Finland, they google very commonly: ‘Finland,national parks’. So the national parks are the business card and leverage we need to take care of. For this reason too, I am very pleased that there is also a great deal of concern here about the resources provided by Metsähallitus for the renovation of the infrastructure of these national parks. It is appropriate that national parks have marked routes in order to protect the vulnerable nature, but for this purpose these longwoods and hiking sites, campfire sites, are needed. It is known that these investments are worth tens of millions. If we were to increase the attractiveness of these national parks in the eyes of tourists, we would probably also need new types of investment in these areas. All in all, it is extremely important that we see national parks and conservation of natural values as a form of sustainable development in which economic activity also has potential. For this reason, it is particularly important to consider what can be done in national parks to preserve their natural values.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u107	Madam President! Yes, just as Mrs Myller has said here, it is important to think about what can be done there, and then about the health effects and these. Metsähallitus explained these health effects, how people experienced them themselves, and according to the studies, people themselves gave about 100 euros to the visit. There is also clear information on how the natural environment and forest affect blood pressure, heart rate and these types of things. Of course, as the number of visitors increases, the question arises as to whether more national parks are needed. I have no problem with that if there are new targets for the national parks. Local acceptability is of course important, and I would be happy to see the National Park of the Great Tunturi of the Hand arm, and it was investigated during the last parliamentary term, but it did not progress, because the local population felt that it was somehow alien to itself. Then perhaps at some point the time will be ripe and solutions will be found that satisfy everyone, and we will also see the economic values from the point of view of the national park that can bring more to the local economy than the situation where there is no national park. Then there was the mention of these investments and of what structures to bring to the national park, and of course it is worth being very careful about what to bring to it, because that silence and nature may be the case number one. That is how I assume the majority will think. In the Lemmenjoki National Park, mechanical gold mining is running out, and it may not be the case now, especially from the perspective of foreign tourists, which is why there will be 20 to 30 excavators, and that long transition period is now running out and will end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u108	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u109	Madam President! After all, we have a lot of public attention in this debate in due course, which is now on the way to the end, the parliamentary process. Indeed, this is intended to make it easier for horse manure to be used in energy production. I had an interesting opportunity in spring to get to know Fortum's CHP power plant in Järvenpää, where horse manure is already used for energy production in addition to other forest-based biofuels. They considered it a very good overall economic solution for themselves and also for the horsemen. But this process by which they were given permission to do so was indeed very difficult and lengthy, and now, with this excellent presentation of deregulation, this should be made easier. This proposal applies first and foremost to those areas where the horse economy is very extensive. In that vast rural area there are typically horse farms that also have their own field and farmland, where this manure can be utilized with fertilizer. But here in Uusimaa and also in certain areas of Central Finland, around Jyväskylä, for example, there are quite a lot of horse farms that do not have their own farmland, and I believe that this is also a positive performance for the horse economy. Let us hope that there will be such a good circular economy ecosystem and a collection system. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this proposal makes it possible to burn all livestock manure. However, I believe that we should assume that the use of livestock manure as fertiliser in farming is a priority because it is able to replace and reduce the use of chemical fertilisers, industrially produced fertilisers. However, as we know, the production of various artificial fertilisers has very high climate emissions. They consume natural resources and produce certain emissions. Whenever they can be replaced as widely as possible by livestock manure, these emissions and this burden on the climate can be avoided. I would like to conclude by saying that its primary place must, however, be the fertiliser used for cultivation. But this is a good show. Thank you to the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u110	Mr President! The bill implements the amendment to the EU by-products regulation. The Commission Regulation provides for some further national derogations to facilitate incineration, which are now being implemented by amending the Environmental Protection Act and the Animal by-products Act. According to the proposal, manure from farmed animals can be used as a fuel in small heating plants up to 50 MW. In other words, the use of horse manure and other livestock manure as fuel is allowed. In practice, only horse manure is concerned because it is usually used as a bedding material for sawdust, i.e. most of the manure is made of wood. Livestock manure can be better used as fertiliser. Some 500000 to 700000 tonnes of horse manure are produced per year. As a raw material, horse manure contains a very high amount of energy that can be squeezed into pellets or briquettes for use. The manure produced by one horse per day with a bedding is equivalent to about three litres of fuel oil. After legislative changes, it is estimated that some 100,000 tonnes of horse manure per year will initially be diverted to incineration. Incineration will provide stables with one new alternative to the organisation of manure management. Finland has a large number of pots suitable for manure incineration, and the facilitation of manure incineration improves energy self-sufficiency, especially in areas with horse concentrations. They are located in the vicinity of the large routing tracks. It is estimated that there are some 70,000 horses in Finland. On average, the manure of four or five horses could be calculated to heat a detached house year-round. There are municipalities and residential areas in Finland, such as Orimattila and Ypäjä, which could be energy-dependent from horse manure. According to a study by Mikkeli University of Applied Sciences, the horse manure volume in Etelä-Savo would heat up nearly 700 detached houses. The rest will still have to be used mainly as soil improver or fertiliser, as required by current legislation. The study of the energy use of horse manure was already recorded in Juha Sipilä's Government's programme at the beginning of the Government negotiations. Now that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have prepared a recent draft national law on this subject, which we are now discussing. I warmly support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u111	Madam President! I myself raised the issue of the energy use of horse manure by burning up the Parliament for the first time over ten years ago, which means that quite a long journey has been involved in this work. And when you know how much energy has been lost during that time, you can’t help but wonder that this has never been decided before. Now the government has finally presented us with a proposal to facilitate manure incineration, which means that no further waste incineration permit will be needed for the incineration of horse manure in energy production units of up to 50 megawatts — quite a few wheelbarrows have been wasted over the last ten years. Fortunately, during the last government negotiations, we then received a strong binding entry into the government programme, and in the name of the breaking of standards, the work started to move forward, and now we have this proposal here at Parliament's reading. Incineration in small and medium-sized units of less than 50 MW will therefore be regarded as energy production instead of waste incineration, and ten years of work will produce the desired results. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry made the necessary amendments to the Environmental Protection Act and the Act on animal by-products, which have now been brought before Parliament, and the legislation is to be put into effect during this government term. So now the law allows for the incineration of the manure of horses, but also of other farmed animals, in the use of energy. So there is no longer any need for a permit for incineration, and, as we heard earlier, there are currently some 70,000 horses in Finland and their daily manure corresponds to more than 210,000 litres of fuel oil, and the needs of some 15,000 pon — that is, quite a large amount of energy is involved. So, counting from here, 4 to 5 horses are already heating up a detached house. And with this law, we can also make better use of manure in large horse centres, such as Ypäjä and Orimatla, and I am sure that joint combustion plants will be created elsewhere. For example, the Vermo region might well think that in the future manure would be burned in such a place. In the past, therefore, only large incinerators have allowed manure to be incinerated. Instead of incineration, incineration is now considered to be energy production and the Environmental Protection Act provides, among other things, additional incentives for manure incineration with regard to combustion temperature requirements and the determination of emission limit values. Thus, as much as 700,000 tons of horse manure comes in Finland each year. In many horse farms more money has been spent on manure reprocessing than on horse feeds, and this can now be turned around in a positive way. As a result of this legislative change, some 100000 tonnes of this approximately 700000 tonnes are expected to be used for energy benefit. It was mentioned above that the majority will continue to be used in fields, and that is true, but like the representative Mäkipää first pointed out, so quite a few stables still use cutter bits as bedding, and in fact it does not make sense to spread manure into the field and they do not want to accept it, because that bit of cutter when it burns takes more energy than it would leave in the field, which means that for many farms the manure has been almost hazardous waste. Fortum, who has also worked on horsepower, i.e. manure incineration, also emerged from the discussion here, but it is worth remembering that it is incinerated in waste incineration plants, which has so far been possible. In future, then, we will be able to smoke in smaller plants — this is almost possible on a stable-specific basis. In Sweden, for example, there are good examples of so-called cube burners, which can then be burned in quite small quantities with this lighter legislation. This has been a wonderful thing that in Finland this has never been a success before. All previous agriculture and forestry ministers and environmental ministers have gone behind the EU directive and said that the EU directive is not possible, but it has not been true. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany — many other countries — have been using horse manure for these ten years, and now I am glad that, under the leadership of Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen, this long-term work will be completed and I can turn the next task from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u112	Mr President! Of course, it is very gratifying that this will involve horses and ponies in the circular economy and in the fight against climate change, at least insofar as that amount of energy from manure incineration is actually, and hopefully, a substitute for the burning of fossil oil. This bill is quite unproblematic and worthy of support. As an additional comment to this debate, it is true that manure from livestock and other animal husbandry, excluding horses, needs to be used to fertilize fields. However, I personally wish that this use would also be processed in such a way that we would use that other manure first in biogas plants and then the reject in which nutrients are in such a form that they are best bound to vegetation and least washed into water are used in fields. We still have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u113	President! This is a familiar subject for yourself. The assistant sent a message that in 2012 I have for the first time asked a written question on this subject, and since then I have raised the issue in different ways. Of course, this is not a matter for the whole population, but for the horse industry, and it is great that we can finally make progress here. Long-term work can produce results and EU policy can be influenced. It must be the case that not all manure is worth burning, but fertilizer and other uses are more sensible in many respects, but it is important and good for the horse sector that this energy use is also possible. A lot of this has been hoped for, and this is a very good solution for common sense or urban sense, and I believe that many horse stables and horse people will thank you for this. It's a series of little big things. There's a reason to be glad to hang for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u114	Madam President! We'll hang together. Of course, it could be said mischievously — let us hope that this is not the case now that Members of Parliament use inappropriate and despicable language — that this government not only speaks but also burns it. This is a good project in itself, because it is terribly important for agriculture that what a horse eats in itself... I would therefore like to see the word bedding in this debate, rather than talking about manure. That's the wrong term. It is not manure; it is either peat, straw or biting that is then collected. Then, among the people, we would have a slightly more understandable form of this idea that has now been promoted by the government. It is important that this government should now be able to consider whether there is a great deal of potential for composting and using it as biogas, which could only come from burning heat energy, so that CO2 emissions can be avoided. This would be the next step. I have already been in favour of making this arrangement during the last parliamentary term. — — — — Now I'm gonna climb that toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u119	Madam President! This government proposal is very good and worthy of support, and Mrs Myllykoski, in her good speech, wondered how the problem of this horse manure will be exploited once it is in the hands of a farmer or a horse stablekeeper after the horse has done its job. In any case, the problem so far has been that this has been defined as hazardous waste and must therefore not be burned on farms. To be honest, horse manure has never been a waste. People who care for the garden know that horse manure has always had a very positive effect on gardening for certain floral species. I'm not a florist. I don't understand how to grow flowers. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. But the important thing about this bill now is that we can reach a solution that is just like the common sense, according to the common sense. I would stress, Madam President, that this bill does not just apply to farms. It must be remembered that in Finland at the moment, a significant part of the entire horse economy is based on horse farms that are not farms — horse stables, riding stables, restaurants with very few fields, even not at all. So for them, it is a huge problem what to do with the waste coming from the horse, so that it can be reasonably exploited and not have to be flogged into some hazardous waste facility to be incinerated. For them, this is of enormous importance. They lack the field or the field is very far away, and here, when suitable bedding is used in the horses ’ stables — they may have dozens of them on a large farm — this can be clowned or otherwise processed and then burned for energy. Because it is an incredible amount of energy that one horse a year produces with its bedding. My friend has a horse stable and, if I remember correctly six horses there, a farm or company holding a six - horse stable — there is other business there — and he said that when he does the next renovation and six horses arrange for the treatment of the waste so that the waste is then burned, their entire property combinate can be heated with the waste produced by six horses, added, of course, with the cutter and peat that is mixed with it. However, peat is a substance that, in this case too, is an excellent natural material and certainly a bio-based material, and it is also renewable. I know that some of it comes to their heels when I say so, but it only comes to Finland more than it is used in a year, so I think it is renewable. I know that these sophists, who wise with words, disagree, but this is everyday realism and biology, and we must also recognise the truth in this house. That is why I consider the government's proposal to be very good. In this country, we must, at long last, achieve a procedure in which such everyday matters are managed rationally with the least possible bureaucracy and so that both citizens, all Finnish citizens, benefit and, above all, those entrepreneurs who are struggling with these problems. Finally, Mr President, I would like to take a stand on that peat when it was mentioned. Representative Myllykoski decided excellently to consider how this peat will be used in the future, whether it will be used or not. At the moment, we have a situation in Finland that let us ensure that the next winter is not a merciless frost, because when the forest industry is full and all fibrewood becomes a raw material for the fibre-making industry and energy wood is not even in storage when its price has so far been very poor, that would mean that we would then be quite dependent on foreign imports. Fortunately, some peat is in storage. This next winter, however it may be, will teach us how to deal with energy policy. This little government proposal No. 95 helps to deal with it, very little, but it is very important that we finally, finally, take it in the hands of reason. In general, in any case — including us politicians — when you take your mind into your hands and think, you usually get pretty good work done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u120	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski: I think that what you raised at the end of your speech is something you should seriously consider and study. Mr Hoskonen said that this is a small matter, and I too say that this is a small matter, but it is nevertheless great for people in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u123	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u124	Madam President! This provides for a law on environmental impact assessment to be amended to the extent that that law contains an annex to the law, from which projects the environmental impact assessment procedure should be carried out. The update seems to have been very successful. This is, in principle, a perfectly acceptable bill. However, in the working group that has prepared this, the Confederation of Finnish Industries wanted to reduce the projects for which environmental impact assessment is required under the law, but the final result of this bill is the list of projects which is expanding, not diminishing. The list of projects includes fish farming, the keeping of fur animals, the extraction, extraction, enrichment and other processing of thorium, as well as the Finnish-Estonian tunnels required by the bilateral agreements between Finland and Estonia — this is a good addition to the list. Mr President! In Finland, relatively little environmental impact assessment is still carried out by Europeans. We could hope for more than that. In this draft law, I also think it is good that the proposal tightens up the provision for assessing the environmental impact of peat production. Since an environmental impact assessment has so far been required for an area considered to be more than 150 hectares unitary, that entry, the entry in the law ‘considered to be uniform’ has, in fact, watered down the requirement of the legislator and has been in conflict with the Directive and has given rise touncertainty. Now this contradiction will be eliminated. Part of this bill remains to be improved. For example, the area of peat production requiring an environmental impact assessment still accounts for 150 hectares. The working group had a 100-ha cap, which could have been better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u125	The debate is closed. - I'm sorry, I was too fast. — Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-06-ps-79.u126	Mr President! However, speed is always useful in the end. Madam President! On this environmental impact assessment. I understand this aspect of the Green League, that everything should be judged ten times, even a hundred times, but it must also be borne in mind that a new record was burned in this city last year in the burning of coal, an overwhelming record in Finland in honor of 100-year-old Finland. Will these not have an environmental impact when you drive from Vorkuta, Russia and Poland and what kind of coal is there? And then the Greens will do everything in their power to make huge propaganda that the world will spoil when peat is burned or used for something else, but then huge amounts of coal will be allowed. Think of the environmental impact assessment, Mr Halmemenpää, where you examine it when coal is burned and when gases spread to the neck of the people of Helsinki, how many cases of lung cancer or blood cancer occur when these huge environmental poisons are applied to people’s necks each year. We all know that when you burn, you get the gases that are dangerous to your lungs. And I have not yet seen a single study in this city that hundreds of thousands of tons of gas are being poured on the back of people. Most of them have already been cleaned, but they always escape the tiny particles that are dangerous to health. As we know, there are particles in tobacco that cause lung cancer. And, as we know, Mr President, in the end, coal tar was once saturated with sleepers. It was considered a huge evil poison, and even the green ones have been screaming their throats straight for a long time that it is a huge poison. It is not quite a huge poison when it is burned hundreds of thousands of tons a year in this city and that gas is still being applied to the breathing air of the people of Helsinki, which means that it is not a very heavy poison. I would like a little perspective on these discussions. I know that the representative who has just been mentioned in this speech — who has just left the Chamber — may not understand the proportionality as I think it should, but I do not regret it, but I would like to see that sense of proportion taken into account in some cases.
