ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 6 November 2018, with the support of Sirpa Paatero Joona Räsänen, who proposed that 2. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 12/2018 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 6 November 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u3	Madam President! I will make a motion to section 27 in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u4	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u5	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u6	Madam President! I will make a motion to section 59 in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u7	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u8	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u9	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 45 minutes will be reserved for this referral debate. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u10	Madam President! So now we have a government proposal for Parliament. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The proposal is based on a government decision on the employment package, a number of measures to promote employment, taken in the context of the budgetary plan for 2019-2022. One project included in this package is to develop incentives to take up work by developing rules on unemployment benefit so that provisions on the reconciliation of unemployment benefit would no longer act as an obstacle to the reception of work. If we estimate from the point of view of the euro, the combination of unemployment benefit and partial employment is currently fairly good. There is a protective component in mediation, i.e. you can earn EUR 300 per month and it does not reduce unemployment benefit. Only a part of the income exceeding the protection component will affect unemployment security, and even then only half of that excess will reduce the monthly unemployment benefit. However, in the everyday and public debate of the worker, mediation does not appear to be only positive, even though the system for regulating the amount of benefit supports the acceptance of work. A number of people are concerned about receiving short-term work or part-time work, and this is due to the fact that, at the moment, the reconciliation of unemployment security is carried out in accordance with the principle of merit: If the work is carried out in November, the remuneration will be reconciled with the unemployment benefit paid from November. This is the case even if the salary is paid only at the end of December. The waiting time for wage information has often resulted in a delay in the time when a person has received his adjusted unemployment benefit, and the amount of benefit has been affected by the salary at a time when it has not yet been available. Mr President! This government proposal will facilitate partial employment by reducing the delays that may be associated with the payment of adjusted unemployment benefit. The objective is also achieved by a very simple means: by changing it...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u13	All right, let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u14	Madam President! Yesterday we had a long debate in the Chamber about how the economy is now on a good growth path. Employment has improved and unemployment has made it easier, but we still have about 250,000, perhaps some more, unemployed people. However, there is more work to be done, including short-term jobs, and we have had a clear problem in this situation: the unemployed have not been able to accept all the work, or they have not dared to accept it. After all, the situation has been that the work has been done this month, some short job job, the salary has only come next month, but at the same time unemployment benefit has been cut off from the month in which it took place, even though rents and other expenses have remained. There's been a clear incentive trap. Thank you to Mr Mattila and Mr Lindström for correcting this problem. One might ask why this has not already been corrected by previous governments. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u15	Madam President! Improving employment is an objective which unites the government and the opposition; it is an objective which unites the social partners; it is an objective shared by both those seeking economic growth and those seeking welfare and social justice. This is an objective which we are unusually unanimous on, but the means which the government has used to achieve this goal for the time being have, on the other hand, shared views. They have overemphasized pressure and pressure, negative incentives instead of positive ones. A good example has been an active model implemented by the government, whose focus was, frankly, on cutting benefits. The proposal now under discussion to amend the Unemployment Security Act to promote the acceptance of short-term work is a much more positive measure. [Right :Oh! ] Mr President! The majority of working Finns work full-time on fixed-term employment relationships. The share of well-established full-time work has not decreased in the last decade, and it will therefore continue to be justified in the future. However, it is also a good thing if we also facilitate and understand the value of short-term work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u16	Madam President! I'm glad to hear that this government proposal is gaining support on both sides of the hall. In fact, this is a very important issue not only in terms of red tape but also in terms of decisions taken by the government to promote employment. When it comes to the transformation of work and how working life is changing a lot and, on the other hand, all the new opportunities it offers, it is very important that all kinds of work should always be taken up and that the worker receives most of the earnings. Sadly, the situation is often that a person finds it very difficult to accept temporary work. According to a study published today, in fact, related to the Action project launched by the central government, in which parties from the outside are working on future social security, the service advisors at Kela were asked how they experienced the problems, and, as I recall, more than 70 per cent of Kela’s customer servants felt that there were problems in the system. If they could tamper with it directly, they would make it simpler. In other words, it is important that these points have now been identified and introduced into the legislation. Of course, the fact that there was a EUR 300 safeguard during the last parliamentary term was very important, and it must be remembered that only half of the income earned after that part of the protection will have an impact on this unemployment benefit. Of course, there will be further changes to this in that, at the beginning of next year, when the Incomes Register comes into force, it will certainly help to make the agreed daily allowance even easier and to reduce the bureaucracy associated with it. I believe that in the future people will be able, hopefully, to follow their own applications, how their benefits have evolved, what their payment date is, how they have worked hours, and thus this system will become much simpler. This also helps a very large number of frontier workers. If you think that we have people in Northern Finland who work both in Sweden and in Norway who do not have a similar system of adjusted daily allowance, this will also help our frontier workers to better monitor their incomes, especially in areas where there is a seasonal need for labour. If you think about tourism or jobs that have a lot of work to do for a while, and there is no work to do for a second time, it would be reasonable to get all the work done. This will help to make it easier, so I would also like to thank the ministers who are presenting us for having finally brought this here in plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u17	Mr President! This is indeed a good reform, as this will reduce the uncertainty of the job seeker in receiving short-term and part-time work. According to the proposal, wage income would be reconciled with unemployment benefit when paid. The consultation also welcomed the draft legislation in the main, but some commentators pointed out that the monitoring of working conditions and activity will continue to be based on merit. In this respect, the system will continue to be difficult to understand for both the recipient and the payer of the benefit. What is the Minister's response to this criticism? Although I did not ask whether this has been changed, I read such criticism in these statements and I would like the Minister to comment on this criticism. In addition, I was wondering if it would not be possible to provide for temporary workers to be paid immediately when the job is finished and the next job is not scheduled or not marked for shift planning. I was thinking, in the digital age, could it not be handled more flexibly and quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u18	Madam President! This is indeed a very positive proposal, and I agree with those who are asking whether this could not have been done before. Certainly one of the main objectives of this proposal is to prepare for the entry and introduction of the National Incomes Register, which implements timeliness with regard to the recording of income, which, from the point of view of subsidies and benefits, also constitutes a situation in which a person, as it were, sees in real time what the ratio between his income and his benefits is and this has a lot of good effects. This encourages the acceptance of work, which has been the key question of how to get the people who are in that reserve back to work. Your own monitoring will improve and make it easier. It's better to understand. Many people wonder what will affect what, and now this brings clarity to this. And then perhaps the biggest thing about the long run is that your own life management improves. So thank you very much for this good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u20	Madam President! The amendment of the Unemployment Security Act to promote the acceptance of short-term work is part of the long-term and long-term work to ensure that taking work is always encouraging and encouraging and can therefore be very easily supported. The last government introduced a EUR 300 safeguard component for those receiving temporary and temporary work and those benefiting from unemployment benefit, and this is a clear continuation of this. It is worth remembering that the image of the work in Finland is changing. Although the majority of full-time work is still doing, still more than 350,000 Finns did part-time work last year. In addition to this, we have 180,000 self-employed people, but also over 80,000 people who are already classified as light entrepreneurs, who are exploring between various entrepreneurial activities, projects, projects, unemployment, but also work, and this change and development definitely supports them. With the help of the Incomes Register, I hope that we will achieve this in a very clear and flexible way, and now that the ministers are here, I would like to ask about this Incomes Register and whether it will be ready in time. Is it a starting point for making it work right from the starting points, as planned, because we have already created quite a lot of expectations here about the arrival of the Incomes Register?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u21	Madam President! I would like to thank both ministers for a good presentation. The employment lines of this government are convincing, and 115,000 jobs have certainly not come on their own, even though we have been criticised in every respect when obstacles to employment have been dismantled. The probationary period has been extended, the readmission obligation has been reduced, fixed-term employment relationships have been made more flexible, the long-term unemployed have been allowed to hire a fixed-term employment relationship for no reasonable reason, practical guidance has been invested in young people and given, fair rules of play for zero-hour contracts and easier study, part-time work and job work with daily allowance. There has always been criticism, but all of this has borne fruit. It is a great thing that we can still do things that continue to encourage the taking of short-term work. But it would be a dream that one day this system would be one, perhaps even through the Incomes Register, that simply when a person is working, he would get paid, and when he is unemployed, he would receive unemployment allowance. Our working life and our entrepreneurial life, as Mr Järvinen has just described here, are constantly changing, and it would be good to be able to combine different forms, part-time enterprise, part-time work. I would like to see more easy access to the labour force from retirement. At the moment, the threshold is so high that if, for example, mental health problems led to retirement and felt that it might still be possible to return to work, quite a few people would not return because that threshold is too large. But all in all, thank you for your good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u22	Madam President! There have been many debates in this Chamber and many speeches concerned that work should always be more profitable than being unemployed. Many speeches have also reflected on the fact that we have a very clear and clear problem of matching in our labour market. At the same time, there are unemployed and companies without employees. This has to be acknowledged, this is a fact. The staff of the Employment and Economic Development Centres try their best to give jobs to those who need them, but according to the information I have received, we have quite a few entrepreneurs who do not have all the services provided by the Employment and Economic Development Office. The workers do not even know what is on the TE Office's service list, and therefore they cannot even look for and make full use of all the services provided by the TE Office. When the Minister is present, I will ask Minister Lindström: Is this a well-known problem, and if so, what action has been taken? Has there been any response? And another thing. Many times you also hear the claim that the money of the TE Offices has been cut so that the offices are no longer able to serve their customers enough. I ask Minister Lindström: What is the financial situation of the TE Offices at the moment? To what extent has the government allocated funds to maintaining the services of TE Offices? Is there enough money? Mr President! In this draft law in the referral debate, it is proposed to amend the Unemployment Protection Act to make it easier to reconcile wage income and unemployment benefit for job or part-time work. This is not a step; it is a leap, a leap in the right direction, and this is precisely the result of our excellent ministers. I would like to thank the ministers for this good draft law and, Mr President, I warmly support the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u23	Mr President! This proposal, too, relates to the big picture of the Government Programme. There are three important issues in securing a Finnish welfare society: employment rate, employment rate, employment rate. Smaller and bigger measures are needed. I have calculated that, overall, at least 60 to 70 have come from the government. — Perhaps the figure may be too small, perhaps the Minister Lindström has a better record in this regard. The second strategic area of the Government Programme is also linked to this: new ways of working. It set out this income register, which has been prepared before. It must be achieved in Finland, and it now also enables solutions of this kind. This reform of unemployment security due to short-term work is important, and there are other projects, including unemployment benefit for the entrepreneur, which has been a particularly serious problem. We need to find ways, especially for young people, to work and through it, of course, for a long-term permanent employment relationship, and it also requires these little smaller measures, as is the case here, an important measure in itself. After all, public opinion does not sufficiently understand this government's employment policy. It may even be trolled a little in that world, but I think it is important that this great image is preserved and moved forward, because in any other way the Finnish welfare society is not safeguarded. The Nordic welfare society cannot be safeguarded by the employment rate in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u24	Mr President! This is a positive presentation in its entirety. This will improve the position of the unemployed person to obtain short-term employment, but also full-time work later on, as each job performance will improve the labour market position of the unemployed person. This will increase the profitability of part-time, short-term and post-300 euro job opportunities for the unemployed. There is also a reduction in bureaucracy here. This is an excellent tool for usability of the information content of the National Incomes Register and the payment of adjusted unemployment benefit. Together with the positive employment effects of the future Incomes Register, this proposal is very welcome. Mr President! In addition to this, we must carry out an overall regional assessment of the employment of all working-age people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u25	Madam President! In such economic times as the last three years in Finland, the role of the Minister of Social Affairs and Health or the job of the Minister of Labour is not the easiest and always most grateful from there, but all the more important when success has been achieved, and this government, led by these ministers, has succeeded in these matters. All you have to do is look at the employment rate and the employment situation, and you can see it — even red, not even blue glasses. After all, this change is quite technical, which is now on the table, but it is very necessary, and in particular in relation to the fact that, as Mr Laukkanen said earlier, preparations are being made for this introduction of the national income register. Taking short-term work will be easier, the job will be more profitable, and this will also make it easier to anticipate work and wages. That too is very important. For humans, the most unpleasant thing is to feel insecure, and this will also help in that respect. So I ask the Minister when even the demars do not seem to oppose this: has anyone at any point objected to this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u26	Mr President! The payment policy for unemployment benefit would be even simpler and more effective: to move on to the pre-financing procedure. When working time and income vary, the normal payment period would be maintained, but 80% of the anticipated unemployment benefit would be paid in lump sums according to normal rhythm and 20% would be left in waiting for the time when all the supporting documents of the employment relationship had been obtained, i.e. the rest would be matched later. This would be an awful functioning system. This would not increase the work carried out by the cashiers during the computer age, reduce waiting times, reduce the number of incorrect decisions. There would also be no financial risk for the payer, because part of the unemployment benefit that would otherwise be paid would be waiting for the time when all the supporting documents were received.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u27	Mr President! I would have asked, in fact, now that the Minister for Social Affairs and Health and the Minister for Labour are there, a few answers to this issue. From the beginning of the year, light entrepreneurship and temporary work changed so that you can try this light entrepreneurship for four months. This is a fine and very worthy thing. I was contacted by someone from Hyvinkää. He's been thinking about this sort of thing, going into a small business. He's on earnings-related per diem, sometimes doing gigs, too, and then he'd been working on this situation. He had been told from the Employment Office that if/when he/she could return to earnings-related per diem if that business activity did not start, he/she would then calculate the amount of earnings-related per diem. Of course, these incentives for employability are affected by what the amount of daily allowance is if it is not possible. And then he had asked me about that time after four months, and he told me that, at least in this context, it had been said that we do not now in principle interpret it as anything other than a main act, no matter how low the income is. Here, too, is an enterprising person, and now he has a little time to think about it. Well, maybe another way he'll get something more. This same entrepreneur then tried to produce rehabilitation services, therapy services. We have such pilots in Central Uusimaa's social services, and he was actually contacted there and asked for his services, when these services he provides are hardly available in Uusimaa — this is horse therapy, I say you understand that there are not many of those providers — but now it falls into the fact that he does not have a business ID. Ukko.fi is not allowed, even if Ukko.fi takes all statutory payments; there must be a business code. On the other hand, we now have this light entrepreneurship so much marketed and it is stated that now is good, there is no need to be a business name or a business name, that you can act in this way, and sometimes it can be useful that it has this kind of freelance entrepreneurship when, for example, you are between other types of gainful work. That it would be important for this very thing to be flexible in these systems. This has been a problem. I put a written question to Minister Saarikko as to whether this will also be the case in the social welfare reform and how these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, of this type, will then be able to get involved, whether they will now have to... That Business ID doesn't make anyone happy. For example, financial crime or some other confusion does not go away by having a business ID. I would have asked about this and then what I said at the outset: does the Minister know how to calculate that earnings-related daily allowance at that point?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u28	Madam President! Yesterday, this House praised the economic policy pursued under the leadership of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, which has led to a sharp increase in employment in our country and a fall in unemployment. As far as the government is concerned, this is above all a line of work adopted to reduce the taxation of work and entrepreneurship and to improve the conditions for work and entrepreneurship in the rest of the world. In addition to this general economic policy, there are a number of individual measures that have succeeded in promoting employment. Mr Kalmari listed a few of them, and Mr Ala-Nissila had calculated that there would be about 70. It has been common for these separate, individual smaller actions that they have generally been opposed by the left-wing opposition, the Democrats, the Greens and the Left Alliance. This time, luckily, there is another situation. Mr President! Work should always be worthwhile. Anyone who gets up at 6:00 a.m. and goes to Alepa's cashier has to make more money than anyone who doesn't get up or go. Often in these situations, it is an incentive trap, i.e. by taking part in a job, for example, on a job or part-time job, that a person feels that his financial situation does not improve or does not improve much in relation to receiving unemployment benefit and other social security. In addition to these actual incentives traps, we are unfortunately also well aware of these so-called red tape traps, which means that a person rightly feels that if he accepts a job, there can be intermediate spaces like this where wages have not yet come but no longer receive unemployment benefit. Or at least there is uncertainty about what will happen in terms of income transfers and wages as a result of this job. With this proposal, these red tape traps will now be dismantled and work will also be encouraged in this respect. This is a very good proposal and I believe that, as this referral debate shows, it will receive very unanimous support here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u29	Madam President! There has been a great deal of reflection here about the measures that have already been taken in the previous period and, with this in mind, this period in order to promote the acceptance of work. Perhaps, then, it is good to say a few words about what should be done in the future. We all expect a lot from the Incomes Register, but of course it will be the biggest operation for the next, next term of government, in the development and modification of social security. When we all look for it and want it, and we have also said many times, that we want our social security system to be simpler than it is today, it is worth remembering that no one has wanted it to be complicated today. It has been that we have been trying to make sure that no Finn would miss anything, between the spots. As a result, social security has been corrected and improved many times and has become complex. Unfortunately, if we aim for a simple social security system, it means in practice that more and more Finns fall into some middle ground. That's why it's not a very easy task. The second thing is that we politicians always say — and that is what we must say — that we always want work to be encouraging and profitable. Unfortunately, that too is only half the truth, for at the moment, for example, the marginal effective tax rate is very high in the large income category, i.e. up to EUR 1500 per month for people who earn EUR 2600 per month. They may spend as much as 90 percent of their taxes on additional earnings. If we do not make the future social security system as a whole simple, I hope that at least this marginal effective tax rate will be reduced to 70%, which would mean that always, in all situations, by doing additional work, at least 30% of the additional earnings would be left in the hands of people. This would already be a significant improvement to this current system. Since the new system is going to be behind complicated long-term work and a difficult task, I sincerely hope that we will have a parliamentary group which would have been needed for this social work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u30	Madam President! Improving the profitability of work is really important today, as working life has become more shredded: there are different types of temporary work and part-time work. The fact that we get jobs for the unemployed is extremely important and the best social security for the unemployed. Basic security and livelihood are essential to people. The fear that benefits will weaken for themselves and the family will paralyze job search and weaken the acceptance of work. This government proposal to facilitate the reception of short-term work is very welcome and welcome. It is important that unemployment benefit be flexible in these situations and not broken down. The unemployment protection component, EUR 300, which has already been introduced in the last period, has largely contributed to the employment of the unemployed and has been welcomed with gratitude. The National Incomes Register will also be increasingly important in order to monitor revenue in real time and combine different sources of income. In order to safeguard the position of small entrepreneurs, I believe that the government has not done enough work, although it is important to promote the experiment of light entrepreneurship. I would also like to see further measures taken to promote this. After all, the government has had a basic income test: 2000 lucky long-term unemployed have received basic income, and we have read in the media that the long-term unemployed have been able to start a business or work part-time or volunteer without fear of losing this benefit and losing their livelihood. It would be very interesting to hear from the ministers what ideas the basic income experiment and its results have generated in you, what you have heard about the interim reports and what direction plans should be made in the future. A model such as basic income is precisely the one that reduces bureaucracy but promotes the inclusion and work of everyone in this country. Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of people on disability pension. Many young people are also on disability pensions, for example because of mental health problems, and it would be terribly important for them to see here the possibility of returning to work, the possibility of combining disability pension and social security. Are such measures planned in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u31	Mr President! This individual government proposal is to be welcomed in itself, but unfortunately it cannot say the same about all these actions of the current government relating to the labour market. Fortunately, the threat of a general strike has now subsided for the time being, as the government withdrew its proposal for a notice of dismissal. Mr Lindström, could you consider encouraging measures instead of a stick line in the future? For example, this EUR 300 contribution to unemployment protection, introduced during the last parliamentary term, could be slightly increased. It has clearly encouraged the unemployed to work and would also give them a clear signal of improvement and encouragement after different active models. My second question with regard to employment management is whether the Minister for Employment could give a further extension to a successful and successful experiment on employment and business services, which has, for example, been very good experience in Pirkanmaa. The long-term unemployed have been employed in our region, and experience in other areas of Finland has also been very similar. Arto Satonen, the long-standing representative of the Coalition Party, was the former vice-president of the European Parliament, has taken a bill on this issue, which has received broad support across party boundaries, and I myself have signed it. This initiative specifically concerns the continuation of the employment and business service experiment for two years to come. I would therefore like the government to be able to meet with us on this issue, and this same wish has also come from the municipalities, which are now facing rapid and rapid closure of the implementation of this experiment. And the regional reform is moving forward by at least two years, so there is still time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u32	Since only 45 minutes had been reserved for this package, we will take these speeches, which are now being asked, Mr Pirttilahti, Mr Torvinen, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Hoskonen, and then the short speeches by the ministers, and all the remaining requests for the floor will then be put to the end of the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u33	Mr President! First of all, for Mr Savio: the government has not retreated from the legislation on dismissal, it is being processed in one trio, and it has achieved a good result which is currently being carried forward by all trade unions and organisations. Mr President! By the Sipilä Board of Directors in spring 2018, the employment package for 2019–2022 was launched. Indeed, there are at least ten programmes and dozens of different measures. I would like to thank Mr Lindström and Mr Mattila for bringing them here in this Chamber very effectively and very well, let us say, with good preparation in my opinion. Furthermore, the debate in the Chamber has been good. At the end of the day, you've always been here for an unemployed person or an entrepreneur. What is really good about this proposal is that we come to this issue of income register first and that we will also reduce red tape. The most important thing is to discuss the ground between unemployment, employment and entrepreneurship and also study, so that there is clear support for this terrain from the point of view of the person who is employed. I myself wonder a little like Mr Karimäki before that we have also had a basic income experiment, and I am looking forward to the results, because there is also entrepreneurship in that area. We have many entrepreneurs, crafts entrepreneurs and others in Finland who are currently below the poverty line, and yet they are out of our unemployment benefits and lists. By their own actions, however, they are actively attached to that bread of life in some way. How can the issue of social support and small-scale entrepreneurship or self-employment be combined? But this matter, which is now moving forward, is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u34	Madam President! This government has become quite critical of the reform of labour and social policy in a new way, and structural reforms are being carried out which previously are not used to by the Green Left, i.e. good proposals to improve the position of entrepreneurs and the workforce and to develop entrepreneurship. Especially in Lapland we have experienced an excellent upswing and growing season by this particular government and during this government. We have clearly seen that Finland is Europe's top country in terms of employment and business development, which means that the government has dared to carry out a lot of reforms that are absolutely admired in Central Europe. As we heard today, the Finnish labour market system is still regarded as very conservative and outdated, and these good reforms that are now being carried out will contribute to the survival of the Finnish welfare society when it is expected that the next government will see the economic downturn and nonsense coming into play in the face of the reality that these actions, which the government has taken, will also save the next government. As far as that is concerned, I would like to point out that in our Lapland, temporary work and short-term employment are a reality which may not have been observed on the fronts in the south. Even now I have many acquaintances who go to Kilpisjärvi to live there in order to do various temporary jobs. The problem is when those employment relationships are such pieces that they do not necessarily receive money or financial support, it is said, once every two months, when they may have to rely on income support. But thanks to this technical change, such problems will disappear and the positive actions of this government will continue to be reflected in Lappish well-being. In short, on the excellent achievements of this positive government, I would like to highlight youth unemployment. When the previous socialist government ceased its activities, youth unemployment was 23.3 per cent,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u35	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Savio said that the government has backed away from the project of employing small entrepreneurs before the general strike threat, i.e. a project aimed at lowering the threshold for the recruitment of small entrepreneurs. The government has not backed back from this, as Mr Pirttila has already corrected you, on the contrary, we will soon be receiving a government proposal to change the contract law so that, in the event of individual dismissal, the size of the company, or indeed the number of its employees, is also one of the factors affecting the threshold of dismissal. I am surprised that the Finns are so strongly opposed to this law that promotes the employment opportunities of small entrepreneurs, because I still remember the time when the Finns considered themselves a party of small entrepreneurs. Mr Karimäki and Mr Pirttilahti spoke positively in favour of the basic income. The basic income experiment has really received a lot of attention around the world, and we can constantly read from the media, including today, various positive stories about the basic income experiment. I would like to see a stronger statement in these contexts that such an experimental basic income reform is never possible because it would cost some EUR 11 billion a year over the current social security system. In any case, the basic income, overall, is quite a fad, because I have not seen anyone or any political party present any realistic basic income model. On the contrary, the Left Alliance — or whether it was the Greens — suggested that the level of basic income would be around EUR 750 per month, compared with around EUR 560 per month in this experiment. So when the basic income of this experiment would cost 11 billion, what would it cost 750 euros a month? I expect these political parties, who warmly support basic income, to bring some realistic proposals to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u38	Let me now turn to the floor, Mr Hoskonen. Like I said, we'll have to stop, because this time line was over. Perhaps a few replies will be made to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u39	Madam President! This proposal by the government, which is currently in the debate, is a good way forward, and it is a step in the direction that we will be able to take in a much more determined way in the next few years. It is clear that when we still have more than 200,000 unemployed people — I do not recall the exact figure, but that is where it goes — no matter how much we are experiencing a boom in economic development in recent years, we are at the top, perhaps getting a little downhill, despite the fact that unemployment is the biggest problem in our society. This means that we must look without prejudice for the openings of social security and work, whatever they are. Is it, for example, the model used in Germany? A person who has become unemployed is guaranteed a certain level of income, and if he or she is able to work in the middle of a month, he or she will be guaranteed the rest of it up to EUR 1000. As I recall, EUR 1000 is the limit there. In other words, we have to make open-minded openings like this. It is quite clear that in the free labour market, of the large number of unemployed people we unfortunately still have, not everyone may be able to find employment in the free labour market, but it is extremely important for society to give its helping hand and guide these people to other jobs, socially supported work. What's the model? This is the first good opening, and I believe that Mr Lindström and Mr Mattila have been making progress on this issue all the time, and I believe that they have a sincere desire to move in this direction. Finally, Mr President, I would like to contribute to this basic income test debate. When basic income is paid, or it is planned that such income will be paid, I do not think that such income should be paid to a person free of charge. Yes, there are jobs in this world and in Finland, and if someone is paid something, then there must be a clear obligation to bring good social life to the community. I don't really like to be paid for not having to do anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u42	There was one last speaker who had been asked to speak, and I would like to offer Mr Hassi a reply at this stage. Mr Savio is the second user of the reply and Mr Karimäki, and then we have to go to the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u43	Mr President! For the record, Mrs Zyskowicz — when she called for these basic income models — that the Greens have already published a basic income model two or three years ago, in which the level of basic income is very close to the level of this government's basic income experiment and from which Parliament's Information Service has verified that it would not undermine the balance of central government finances compared to the current situation, because the purpose of the model is not only to guarantee that everyone has a certain, albeit limited, basic security, but also that everyone has an incentive to receive work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u44	And then there was Mr Savio, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u45	Mr President! First of all, I asked for a reply because Mr Zyskowicz criticised my comment that the government had withdrawn from this issue of dismissal law. Well, of course, semantics can always be discussed, then let’s prefer to use the expression ‘sense’,but the main point is that this matter has been supported by the three sides,and this is the case. The competitiveness pact was already a major effort for the employees’ movement — for which I thank them — and it is good that in the future these issues are actually being considered in the Finnish way used to them in the labour market. Representative Zyskowicz also said that before the last parliamentary elections, the Finns represented themselves as a small entrepreneur-friendly party. That is true, and that is what we are. However, the difference between us and the meeting is that we propose and support measures that benefit both the employer and the employee. Next week we will be discussing alternative budgets, and in that we will have a number of proposals, and we will make them more specific here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u46	Then there is the reply, Mr Karimäki. And in this context, I would like to ask whether Mr Hassi will leave a request for the floor for the evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u47	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz asked about the Greens' basic income model. Indeed, the Greens have a model of basic income, which is more or less the size of the government's own basic income experiment, but the difference between the Greens' basic income model and your experiment is that the Greens take it away from the high incomes through taxation, or if they succeed in getting work and receive decent, adequate wages, then the basic income, as it were, is compensated by taxation. What is essential is that people are encouraged to work, encouraged to be active in creative sectors, to try, to be active in art. After all, the world is changing so that robotization is progressing and the forms of work are constantly changing. And the fact that we are spending time and bureaucracy on the implementation of the basic security system is really crucial: it will increase welfare but also contribute to economic efficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u48	And then both ministers. Who's gonna go first? — Minister Mattila first, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u49	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. I'm sure we should return to basic income when the experiment is over. As far as I am concerned, I have no time to answer questions other than those relating to this government proposal. However, I would like to say to Mr Karimäki that there is a need for further development of the so-called linear model in the OTE-tip project for the coordination of pensions and earnings, with the aim of achieving the right balance between income and pension. Several questions also concerned the national income register — representatives of Ala-Nissilä, Järvinen, Laukkanen, Elo. This is not in the preparation of the STM, although many sectors are in common with the STM. Reliable eyes here are directed to the Ministry of Finance, and information on this timetable is available on its website, and I believe and trust that the preparation will be made there. But they're really in it with the Department of Responsibility. Mr Meri, you asked about entrepreneurship and it is on the property of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and on this question of rehabilitation, you have submitted a written question to Minister Saarikko, as you described. The question was very much about such details, which perhaps cannot be reeded here and in this place. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, the late payment of wages is an employer's problem. You can't really get away with it. But the implementation problems and issues relating to the active model must now be resolved at the tables where, for example, the active model is currently moving forward, possibly in the form of a regulation. Mr Järvinen, it is precisely that our social security system has certainly developed over the last 100 years of independence with a view to ensuring the good basic income of the citizens, and it has taken a long time, even though it has become a little patchwork. Now we need to reform in the future, which will last for at least the next 100 years, and preferably on a broad parliamentary basis. And, Mr Zyskowicz, at least I understand that my group has presented a negative income tax model for the reform of social security, but this will be the subject of a debate during the forthcoming term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u50	Madam President! This proposal alone does not solve anything, but, as has been quite well understood here, it needs to be supported by the hope that the national income register will come. Together, then, they can have the effect of what is claimed here, that it is always worth taking up work and offering it. So it is good in that sense that this proposal is now coming at this stage and is ready, and then the national income register will hopefully be as soon as possible from the beginning of 2019. But it's really in preparation for the VM. Over the pay and all kinds of income transfers for a better combination of different models have been presented — there is a universal credit, a negative income tax, of this type. Each party is starting to have its own models. This is the direction we are going, the idea that there is, for example, temporary work and different kinds of piecework and that it would be worth taking and then there would be some security. I myself have been rather critical of basic income testing and that ideology, precisely because it gives the wrong signal that we are encouraging people a little about the wrong thing, not about accepting work. I understand these points. But all parties seem to have the same idea that there would be work and livelihood and that all work should be done. Representative for Hongisto: The resources of Employment and Economic Development Offices have been increased in recent years. In 19 years, we will have more than 500 more people at the TE Offices than we had at the end of 2016. Which means there's been a transfer of resources. This is an identifiable problem of how TE services are known at all. We have recognised that both companies and the unemployed do not know these enough. So, from the beginning of next year, we are about to launch a new national communication campaign to make the TE services known.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u52	Thank you for the good debate that has now come to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u53	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u54	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to make changes to the annual holiday law required by EU law. The Working Time Directive provides for a worker's right to a minimum of four weeks' paid annual leave, and according to the case-law of the Court of Justice on the Working Time Directive, the worker must also be entitled to four weeks' paid annual leave despite sickness absence. According to the applicable annual leave law, annual leave during sick leave or medical rehabilitation is earned for a maximum of 75 working days during the year during which the leave was fixed. The annual leave law therefore does not guarantee an employee’s right to annual leave in a situation where the worker’s sick or rehabilitation leave lasts longer than this. In order to eliminate this contradiction, it is proposed to introduce a new provision in the Annual Holidays Act on the right of workers to additional leave to supplement their annual leave. An employee would be entitled to additional leave in a situation where he/she has not earned at least 24 annual holidays due to sickness or rehabilitation leave. However, the right to additional leave would no longer be granted after a single period of absence of more than 12 months. If, despite absence, the worker had earned at least 24 annual holidays during the year during which the holiday was fixed, the provision on additional leave would not be applicable. For additional days of leave, the worker would have the right to receive compensation equal to or equal to his or her average salary. Therefore, the rules for calculating the annual leave salary would not apply to the calculation of the compensation. Additional holidays would not be an annual holiday, nor would they result in a new annual leave. It is also proposed to extend the period of annual leave for incapacity for work. Annual leave could still be granted during the holiday period of the calendar year following the holiday period, but no later than the end of that calendar year. This need for change is also due to the case law of the Court of Justice. The purpose of the mandate to reform the annual leave law was to prepare the overall reform of the annual holiday law. The annual holiday law is very complex and not in any way user-friendly. Furthermore, our annual holiday law differs from European systems in its system, and this now seems to be a major problem when the EUT, the Court of Justice of the European Union, comes up with new solutions for the interpretation of the Working Time Directive. That is why it would have been desirable for us to have found a solution to a simpler annual holiday regulation, but in the middle of the preparatory work the social partners considered that there were no conditions for such an overall reform within the timescale available, as there was preparation of the Working Time Act. The annual leave law is also a monetary law, and it poses its own challenges: no one should lose, and rewriting would inevitably have meant it for some. However, the annual leave law is definitely in need of reform, and hopefully it will be possible to write a new law sooner rather than slower.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u55	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u56	Madam President! Among the laws promoting well-being at work and health and safety at work, the annual holiday law is in a special position. For example, a derogation from the working time law may be granted in the case of a leading worker. The annual leave law, on the other hand, applies to all who earn a living in another’s service. The worker has earned his vacation and so has the manager. Improvements have been made to the annual leave law in recent years, which also help those in short contracts and those working short hours. Securing at least four weeks of annual leave for employees is already a legitimate objective for the above reasons. The social dimension of the European Union is an excellent example here — where the EU, where the worker's security is. However, the government has perhaps made its proposals in an unnecessarily limited manner only in keeping with these EU minimum conditions. In this context, more could have been done to correct the annual leave law. A particular shortcoming in this proposal is that it does not adequately assess the change in the status of part-time and fixed-term workers. This would already have been necessary for the sake of equality and equality. In view of what the Minister said earlier in his presentation, despite the significant proposal for a law on the daily and well-being of workers, the level of ambition could have been even higher.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u57	Mr President! The aim of this bill is to strengthen EU case law into national regulation — a good thing, because the right to leave is also important for well-being at work. However, there are a number of problems of principle in this draft law, on which some of the commentators expressed their views. I would like to ask the Minister: does the concept of an additional day in the draft law not conflict with the article on paid annual leave in the ILO Convention, which states that absences from work due to reasons beyond the authority of the worker concerned, such as sickness, accident or pregnancy, must be counted as working time — working time? Would it not be clearer to follow the ILO agreement as it stands? In addition, the proposal does not consider additional days to be working time or period of entitlement to annual leave. Why? Is this legally correct? Secondly, like Mrs Tuppurainen, I criticise the lack of impact assessments. The proposal lacks an assessment of the impact of this on part-time and fixed-term workers. And as a result, for example, the assessment of the impact on equality remains partly incomplete and uncertain in this draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u58	Mr President! In the future, four weeks’ paid annual leave could be obtained even if the number of holiday days had been reduced due to illness or accident. This is a significant change to the annual leave law for the worker, but, as the Minister said, it is in itself related to the implementation of EU legislation. In that sense, this is also an example — a very concrete example in itself — for the citizen of the impact of EU regulation on Finland and its impact is deep and undisputed. But not all entrepreneurs — and must be said in the same breath — are enthusiastic about this performance in itself. According to entrepreneurs, the change could increase the costs for employers, the administrative burden. And in this regard, I would like to ask the Minister: How do you see the concerns of this entrepreneur, which must also be taken into account as well as the concerns of the employee if there are any in the proposal? How do you see these entrepreneurial issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u59	Mr Suutari, and then, if the Minister wishes to reply, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u60	Mr President! For the first time in the previous parliamentary term, this matter was dealt with in that Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, where the Minister was also present, and there was a decision that came to a minimum of four weeks, but there was also more for those who had longer holidays than this four weeks. This government has changed it for this four-week period, and this is where we will now correct this recovery period required by the EU if the four weeks are not fulfilled for those who have not yet been sufficiently employed in a company. But this is certainly likely to increase the costs for a company that takes a person to work in such a way that it does not get enough time for summer holidays agreed by the social partners, and then it is likely to reduce employment according to my calculations. I'd like to ask the minister if I've been miscalculating.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u61	Then, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u62	Madam President! Thank you for the questions. First of all, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's observations. With this provision now being proposed, we will safeguard the minimum right to a paid rest provided for in Article 7 of the Working Time Directive. And I repeat what I said at the beginning that this is the minimum that will be done precisely because it was stated in the trio that there was no time to do anything else, because there was the same group doing the working time law. So I have no objection at all to the fact that we should have been able to carry out an overall reform, but now we are only doing what the EU requires, that is to say, the minimum. If the employee were to be guaranteed this kind of entitlement instead of holidays, as it were, to a normal annual leave in spite of sickness or rehabilitation conditions, i.e. to pay the annual leave salary, the provisions on the new annual leave and the leave allowance for collective agreements would be applicable and the costs would be higher than the costs arising from the extra day's entitlement. This has implications, of course, for employers, for the private sector in financial terms. This will be an administrative burden and will also cost the private sector 18 million, the municipalities 4 million, the state 400000, a total of approximately 22 million. It is estimated that around 13,000 private and public sector employees will be affected annually by this proposal. And why has the impact of the proposal on employees in fixed-term, part-time employment not been assessed? We have not considered it necessary in view of the objectives of this proposal, because this proposal does not propose to change the criteria for earning annual leave. And yes, the views of the employer, the commentary, Mr Elo, have been reviewed. The EK considered that this reform should not be carried out at all because the European Court of Justice has not ruled that the Finnish annual holiday law is contrary to the Working Time Directive. Well, we now felt that there was a need for this, and we are making the minimum at this stage. As I said, there is an order for this, and then it is probably one of the key tasks of the next government to bring this overall reform to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u63	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is 7. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u64	Mr President! This proposal therefore proposes to amend the lottery law so that in future the so-called 'distributed' machines can only be played on an identified basis, and it also facilitates the procedure for licences for goods, bingo and goods winnings, with a view to facilitating the administrative burden on voluntary activities. Mr President! The first amendment of lottery law focuses primarily on the integration of gambling communities. Since the beginning of 2017, we have started operating as a unified Veikkaus Oy. In this context, Parliament specifically required that the Government continue its examination of the lottery law, in particular with regard to the management and prevention of the disadvantages of lottery gambling. In this respect, considering the matter under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, it can inevitably be observed that the concentration in gambling with regard to disadvantages is precisely in physical machines. That's where most of the harm comes from. For this reason, when the gambling handicaps affect a large number of Finns and are also reflected in their loved ones, indirectly in the whole society, the government has now adopted a legislative proposal to tackle this in particular. Gambling machines are also, according to studies, the most significant single disadvantage factor. Mandatory identity gambling allows both the authority and the player themselves to impose restrictions on the management of risk gambling, such as the maximum number of monthly losses. Mandatory authentication and the setting of similar restrictions are already in use in the online gambling of Veikkaus, and now they will be extended to physical cash-operated games. At the same time, this change will enable us to improve the age limit control related to gambling, because when you authenticate, Veikkaus' customer base will also check the age limit. According to studies, gambling started as a minor increases the risk of having problems with adults. All gambling is covered by the minimum age of 18 years in the lottery law. Mandatory authentication is intended to take effect in cash-automatic gaming from the beginning of 2022. The obligations of the law to ensure an authenticated gameplay are the responsibility of Veikkaus. This is an IT-wide project and it is necessary to set aside a sufficiently long period of time for the change, taking into account possible time-frame risks, as is the case here. The amendment would exclude the automatics placed in Veikkaus' own playing halls. There's a lot of surveillance in those gambling halls. However, even these vending machines could be equipped by the bet using the authentication procedure at its discretion. Mr President! Although the pursuit of profit cannot alone be the objective of our legal system, it naturally raises the issue of debate in organisations that receive subsidies for gambling profits. Of course, impressive measures to reduce gambling harm, such as restrictions on gambling, will also reduce gambling returns to some extent. It is difficult to accurately assess the impact of the reduction in return due to the change on the overall return on gambling and the financing of organisations, as the overall return is naturally influenced by a number of factors. We believe that the change can be made in a controlled way, so that the restrictions on identified gambling are correct for problem players to help, and that the process of identification can be technically implemented in such a way that the effects on harmless, controlled gambling are limited. It should also be noted that the digital channel of online casinos as a whole already accounts for more than 40 per cent of sales and is growing rapidly. Mr President! In the case of slot machines other than slot machines, changes to the lottery law are introduced in the spirit of the standard-biting process so as to facilitate the authorisation of lotteries, bingo games and slot machines. For example, the maximum length of the lotteries licence will be increased from 6 to 12 months and the bingo license will be increased from 2 to 3 years. In addition, the total selling price of small lotteries without a separate licence for the lotteries will be increased from EUR 2000 to EUR 3000. These deregulation changes are therefore due to enter into force in autumn 2019. They facilitate Finnish citizenship in this area. In addition to the overall reform of the fund-raising law, it is therefore a question of reducing the administrative burden on voluntary activities in the organisation's own fundraising activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u65	Madam President! Finland’s gambling policy is based on an exclusive system. In other words, in the organisation of gambling, a monopoly has been considered to produce the best result for society as a whole. First of all, the principle is extraordinary. In general, we consider competition to produce the best result for society — that it would produce the most results with limited resources. Gambling, however, is not a matter of normal economic activity. For some people, no doubt for most people, this is harmless entertainment, a stimulating tension that is being paid a little for. For some people, however, gambling is anything but harmless: games take the money, games take the time, games take the mind and the whole life. Gambling is not a normal commodity. And that is why the monopoly system, which leads to the restriction of the production of the product, can be an increase in welfare. Monopoly, the system of exclusive rights, is a model for well-being, but not sufficient. Monopoly, too, needs regulation. There is a need for ways to identify those who suffer from gambling, to limit their playing, and in some cases to get them to seek help. This model presented in the proposal, which extends the recognition of players, is to be welcomed in this respect, even if it is necessary. Its only possible disadvantage is the gap in funding from the pool. Its amount will depend on the technical implementation of the authentication and will in any case be below the cost of gambling. So I am in favour of this proposal to identify. Mr President! The reduction in regulation in the case of lotteries, bingo games and slot machines in the presentation is a good counterweight to the tightening of regulation required to combat problem gambling. Lottery organised by public utility entities is an activity in which the entertainment element and moderate excitement are not taking people into forced gambling, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u66	Madam President! When Mr Mykkänen presented this legislation, he said that gambling problems were particularly focused on scattered games, and that is certainly the case when there is no identification there. But in the context of this legislation, I would like to highlight the fact that we have a pool of Veikkaus, RAY and Fintoto, thus ensuring this exclusive organisation of games and even more responsibility for harm and legal protection. I would like to ask the Minister how we could curb the organisation of Finnish-language games abroad, as there is a risk that gambling will be passed on online to service providers who then put their profits on things that are not for the benefit of society, and at the same time circumvent taxes and other obligations. As far as this legislative project itself is concerned, I think we will receive some criticism that this is excessive. In fact, I would like the Minister to tell us in practical terms how this identification takes place. Surely it cannot be as complicated as a normal banking identification with a code list, i.e. if it is lighter, it would already make it easier to bring this message to the public. But on the other hand, once we have highlighted the risk, I think that this legislative proposal is quite the right one. And it is very good that where we can dismantle standards again, they will be dismantled. I think a lot of bingo organizers and lotteries are happy about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u67	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Kalmari asked me a few questions which I myself may have some views on as a representative of the Veikkaus Board of Directors. First of all, the fact that gambling has gone to foreign gaming sites for probably a decade, and that development is becoming ever stronger. The only way to respond to this development is to ensure that even Veikkaus' games are competitive alongside this foreign game offering. And this identification: in practice it talks about using a Veikkaus card, which Veikkaus has shared with players, which means that it would not be as complicated as banking identification, at least according to my own understanding. As such, it is good that the lottery law is being updated, precisely because this monopoly is not a matter of course. In many countries it has been lost because it has been let out of hand. After all, it is not a profit from betting, it is a prevention of gambling disadvantages. It is quite difficult to prevent these gambling disadvantages without a gambling monopoly, even because it may be a little difficult for foreign gaming companies to impose financial resources on the prevention and management of gambling disadvantages, and this gambling monopoly can only survive in practice if it is competitive with a foreign gaming offering. In other words, the trend is that people are looking for more mobile games, reducing gambling in stone stands. Constantly, gambling revenues, exchange rates have decreased in credit-type games and increased in online casinos and similars, and to this trend we can hardly help. The impact of these restrictions on gambling profits is quite clear, but the positive impact on gambling disadvantages is less clear. In other words, it must now, over time, be followed up on the effects of these proposed restrictions, which in themselves are to be welcomed. For example, it is now apparent that when Veikkaus switched to gaming restrictions in his online services, i.e. the player is able to set voluntary limits for himself, it also gave some flexibility to gambling returns, and there is still no clear evidence as to whether it had any positive impact on the disadvantages of gambling. But it remains to be seen, and yes, it must be seen to the end. As far as this law is concerned, I think it is particularly important that the legislation now expresses the will of the legislators as closely as possible on the conditions for organising games. At the moment, in practice, I have often come across a situation where existing legislation is too open to interpretation, even open to the arbitrariness of an individual police officer, and leads to situations which it is difficult for the legislator to see in line with its own purpose. In other words, there will be clear legislation and there will not be too much room for public authorities to interpret these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u68	Mr President! This bill for amending the lottery law is a good one. But it is also good for us to be aware that many of the difficult issues relating to this matter have later been referred to the regulation for further regulation. Issues related to marketing, for example, are also to be brought to Parliament at a later date. I would like to ask the Minister: at what point is the preparation of the second part of this law, which I believe is the subject of issues such as this marketing? The aim of this presentation is to reduce the disadvantages of gambling, and we are certainly all of the opinion that this is an important issue. The related instruments and limitations of gaming management are to be implemented in a step-by-step manner. And this phaser is important, so that the bet will have time to adjust to this situation. Because this is a very demanding exercise for my guess. After all, he has to compete with international gaming companies all the time for his position in this gaming market. We in this Parliament should take care of managing a responsible bet in this competition, because However, the proceeds of the bet will be for the benefit of the Finns, which means that finding the right balance would be extremely important. In conclusion, this proposal is well-founded and good, because prevention of gambling harm is indeed a matter of national importance. However, in spite of this, I hope that here in Parliament we will also have the will to defend this unique system in Finland, which works more responsibly than international gaming companies, for example. The next stage of the lottery law should also be brought forward quickly and the various ministries at the joint table, so that the votes of the beneficiaries will also be heard. I would therefore like to ask how to ensure that the beneficiaries are already involved in the preparation of Part Two of this Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u69	Mr President! The government has been aware of problem gambling and has produced a bill aimed at reducing the economic, social and health disadvantages and problems caused by gambling. In the future, players will need to identify themselves when playing cash-operated games, for example, placed in shops or kiosks. In this way, the aim is to get better control of risk gambling, including in physical vending machines. As Mr Mykkänen said in his presentation, all gambling is covered by the minimum age of 18 years laid down in the lottery law. At the same time, if you are identified, you can improve your age limit control, as in the future, you would always need the customership of Veikkaus to identify yourself in cash-operated games. The representative Kalmari there wondered how this identification would be done in such a way that it would not be as complicated as a bank identification. I believe that a very long-lasting and clever solution will be found, and it cannot be this complicated and difficult. The authorisation procedure for lotteries, bingo games and winning machines, as well as for certain other slot machines and machines will be reduced by extending the maximum length of the licence from 6 months to 12 months. In addition, the threshold for the total sale price of small lotteries without a licence for the lotteries would be raised from EUR 2000 to EUR 3000. And I also think that this is a very good and well-founded move. These changes are expected to enter into force in autumn 2019. In addition, the draft law proposes to amend the scope of the Money Laundering Act to apply the law to cash dispensers deemed to be used outside a gambling casino if the gambling takes place as identified by the Lottery Act. The bill starts with this importance of identification and the importance of identification, and it is an excellent way of curbing problem gambling. Mr President! The government has again made a good bill and I warmly support it. Thank you, Minister Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u70	Madam President! It is clear that the lottery law needs to be reformed, and this reform of compulsory identification is certainly appropriate. It is worth remembering that Veikkaus works a little schizophrenicly between wood and bark, a little like Alko: a lot should be sold, but the disadvantages should be combated. And neither side should be underestimated. Gambling problems mostly affect young adults, and while it is remembered that almost one third of Finland’s gambling revenues come from unemployed people, pensioners and laid-off people, i.e. those most vulnerable in general, it is not a trivial matter. On the other hand, a lot of good is done with betting money and many organizations depend on it. If I remember correctly, about 53 per cent of the money goes to sports and cultural organisations, 43 per cent to the social and health services and 4 per cent to the horse sector. My guess is that this compulsory identification and its passing will cost up to EUR 17 to 170 million. That is why it is good, first of all, that the government has come against Veikkaus of the year in its proposal. This presentation makes it easier to move forward step by step, bearing in mind that at the moment only about 10 per cent of Finnish players have identified themselves. But I have a few wishes for the committee as well as perhaps for the minister: As this law is being passed, it is worth carefully considering the process and method of identification, because the more difficult and complicated it is to make it, the more Finnish society will disappear. If it is made easy, with one card, and even encouraging, it can be achieved even with small losses. So much depends on the price tag of the reform on these solutions. The second point is that the committee should consider the possibility of mobile payment. However, it is a modern age in a great many areas, and it is quite difficult to justify why it is not possible to play Veikkaus games. Our common concern is that already some EUR 200 million are being played out of Finland, i.e. international online games. And that means that taxes are not paid on that amount of money but, on the other hand, that money is not made available to those who suffer from gambling disadvantages — that is to say, society as a whole is losing. The third thing I hope for is that we should ensure that the interpretation of this future law is sufficiently clear so that the authorities and collectors interpret the law in the same way. We have several examples of the fact that the position of the Police Government has often been somewhat different from that of the legislator. It would be good to change that. And one thing that has nothing to do with this lottery law, but which I would like to hear from the Minister, and that is the Board of Governors of Veikkaus. It has been well justified that the Board of Directors of Veikkaus is at this stage of change, when the gaming companies and the gaming system were reformed, the number of gaming companies was reduced, the system was clarified, the chosen now... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u75	Madam President! It is a very good thing that a new proposal is now being introduced into the lottery law, which will further streamline, for example, the gambling machine business in Finland. It is clear that once we have had the right to hold this monopoly, and especially now that this big company was founded, which includes the Slot Machine Association, Veikkaus Oy and then Fintoto, we have one joint company that manages and manages this issue. The most valuable thing is that when people play slot machines in some way — it is clear that some games are always played by those people — then this is how we get more money into Finnish society for good purposes: science, art, culture and youth work. Everyone in his own municipality certainly knows an example of what this money has been spent on, really building a common good, and that is how it should continue to be maintained. The fact that identification will now become mandatory in the next few years is also a good thing, because it can reduce harmful gambling and at the same time lead people on a more narrow road if gambling is a problem, so that it does not take up the entire economic wealth and bring people into serious personal problems. Then even the lottery organised by various sports clubs with this law will get a little relief, that is to say, bureaucracy will be dismantled and rules will be made easier. We must remember that, for example, in today's Finnish sports club work, we are now saying this when winter comes, even though the lotteries organised by various ski clubs are absolutely essential means of raising funds for many clubs, and we must remember that young people, when they engage in different sports, are unfortunately very small financial support opportunities for young people and children in a very large number of families, and in this way the clubs are doing a very valuable job of directing a small person to right and healthy hobbies. This is an excellent thing for Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u76	Mr President! Gambling is a problem at a time when it cannot be controlled and causes indebtedness, poverty, health and close relationships. That is why it is important to prevent gambling harm, and this government proposal proposes that gambling machines should be logged in, compulsory identification, which the minister says is already online. I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of whether, by identifying itself in this way, we can also prevent the disadvantages of foreign games, the games produced by international gambling companies, and how we can then act when we have entered the system, whether gambling can be prevented in certain situations and what are the situations and criteria, when gambling can be prevented. That is a key issue, and I would like the Minister to assess this. Young people are most often affected by gambling problems. Six per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds had a gambling problem in the 2015 population survey. In addition, according to the study, almost one third of Finland’s gambling revenues come from unemployed, pensioners and laid-off persons, so this proposal is very welcome and important. But the question may also be: How can we protect young people even better? Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised the issue of marketing and its limitation. I consider this to be a very important instrument, and I would ask the Minister to tell us when we will get a proposal in this regard. One thing about this proposal is that around 2,900 cash dispensers would be excluded from mandatory authentication at this stage in Veikkaus Oy’s gaming halls and casino. However, there is one important loophole here, Minister, for this very good proposal, which is in itself to be supported, and I ask why they have been excluded. Gambling returns have financed very important activities, culture, and, on the other hand, when we are discussing how important it is to curb gambling disadvantages and human suffering, the profits from gambling can also be reduced. In that sense, cultural funding linked to gambling profits creates uncertainty and is also fundamentally unethical. Culture funding should not increasingly be transferred to be financed by the proceeds of gambling, but, in the long term, the statutory central government shares of art institutions should be transferred to be financed from the state budget rather than from the proceeds of betting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u77	I will admit three requests at this stage, then the Minister's reply, and then we will see what time it is that we have taken the time. — Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Mäkelä and Pirttilahti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u78	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Järv for his comment on the composition of the Management Board of Veikkaus. I myself am on the board of directors, and I certainly agree with Mr Järvinen that there is a need to reconsider this issue. It is currently too big a team to be able to function effectively. I fully understand that at the time when Veikkaus, the Slot Machine Association and the racing games were combined, this was probably a proper and proper solution, that it was done this way and that this team became so big, even though many people doubted that it would become a functioning system. But in the future there is certainly a need to reconsider this issue, and I ask the Minister what he thinks about it. Mr Järvinen also took a position on another important issue which I did not remember to say anything about in my first speech, namely that this legislation and its future legislation should be so clear and unambiguous that there would be no problems of interpretation in the future, because the problems of interpretation that have now been associated, for example, with current legislation and marketing have been very embarrassing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u79	Mr President! With regard to this matter of the Board of Directors, it must have been a question of such a period of overtime and the result of the merger, that they were in practice all combined, that is, different cultures in different companies. Other companies also had representatives of the beneficiaries, in principle only MPs in the Board of Directors, and now they have all been together. I myself am in favour of rationalising this matter now, at least for the coming parliamentary term. After all, these methods of gaming management are mainly about the voluntary restrictions that a player imposes on himself, i.e. the limits, how much you can play in any time, how much you can lose in any time. That is probably the way it will be in practice in the future, because we are talking about full-scale citizens and a free country, which means that they themselves can decide how to play. But what is essential is that they are given the tools to do it, that there are such levers in the system, that I can set this up, that I can lose a certain money today, and that I cannot easily change that limitation on the spur of the moment when the gambling urge hits. So these are the ways to control your own gambling is important to bring. When mentioned about these machines in casinos, it may be easier to arrange for gaming management in those casinos where there are staff who can be informed that I do not want to play, while then, when talking about decentralised machines, who is there to supervise it? After all, it was said in Norway that these vending machines were taken off completely to prevent any damage to the game and brought back with full authentication, and that, after all, had little effect on the risk of gambling, which is not an unambiguous matter at all. It must also be remembered that these winnings are quite a big pot for sports and youth work, but also, often forgotten, for veterans and many other important things. This kind of money is not easily to be distributed anywhere else; it must be remembered when making these decisions. In my view, therefore, Monopoly is not really an ideological issue; it is quite a practical matter: if there was no monopoly, what would solve these gambling problems and the discovery of gambling returns?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u80	Madam President! This is a very worthy piece of legislation to make a little of a brake on gambling addiction, and this legislation is right not only for young people but also for other people who are addicted to gambling. In that sense, it is very important to strengthen identification. But, in fact, I would say to the Minister that this is in itself a problem when it comes to playing and then there is a need for money. When we probably have consumer protection legislation coming next week, these are, in a way, linked to each other, that if you over-indebtedness by playing and then you start taking quick levers right away, then the problem will be repeated. Thank you for allowing us to deal with this other issue next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u81	Mr President! Thank you for this proposal. This is a step forward. I really would have liked to have included in this same motion my legislative initiative, which I have tabled a few years ago. This bill contains such a text: ‘In the Finnish society, the objective of demagoguery One such form of unnecessary heavy regulation is the authorisation procedure for small lotteries. In my bill, I propose that lottery tickets organised by a public benefit entity with a maximum lottery price of EUR 2000 do not have to be applied for at all. Today, all lotteries, except those sold and valued on the same occasion, must be required to apply for a lottery licence and submit an account for the lotteries. These provisions make it difficult for small and low-income associations to raise funds, and may even lead to a failure to carry out such funding at all. The process of lotteries is often perceived as complex and costs far too high for a few hundred euro lotteries. Even if this small amount of money is used to maintain the normal operation of the association concerned, a specific explanation of the use of the revenue is required. When public funds are increasingly scarce enough to support associations of general interest, self-financing should only be limited to what is necessary. In Finland, the activities of third sector associations and foundations are an important part of civil society and the services and social activities they provide save a lot of taxpayers' money.” In this bill, I have also suggested that the same entity should have a maximum number of lotteries in the course of the year with a total income of EUR 2000 or less. This would prevent this sort of circumvention in this matter. I also propose in the bill that, if it is not a draw where the sale of lots and the distribution of profits take place on the same occasion, the executioner of the lotteries should, however, retain all this written material for five years so that they can be verified if necessary. I really would have liked to have included this issue as a whole, which could have helped a very large number of third sector players in that field.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u82	Madam President! I'd be a minister. The silent question was that when today we also have this fund-raising law, how this law and the fund-raising law now work together and whether they have been coordinated together. Both have been long-term projects. I was in this group, which was also working on this lottery law, and this is now very much in line with the broad vision and concern that existed in that group. In the case of these lotteries, this need for control still exists. Although this colleague said that it could make them easier, the need for control actually increases in society at the moment, because the possibilities of using these different kinds of electronic gaming opportunities are increasing and increasing. Licensing is also important and then awareness of the reliability of the organiser, as these electronic authorisation procedures now come and include identifications and others. To sum up, this regulation was very important and came to a good time. But now there is a little interest in the relationship between the fund-raising law and this law: how are they thought of together?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u83	And then Minister Mykkänen. Is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u84	Mr President! Thank you for your very constructive and important comments. Let's see what I can answer here. First of all, the marketing of foreign games to Finnish-speaking Finns, whose representatives Kalmari and Karimäki particularly raised here. These technical and regulatory instruments are now going to the next stage of a preliminary study and should therefore be completed by March. It is not an easy subject, because in practice we are talking about blockages, anti-payments, warning banners and freedom of the Internet, but let us see what can be done. Lighter identification, specifically referred to by representatives of Kalmari, Järvinen, Hongisto, many others. Indeed, it is not the intention to require a changing set of banking credentials; it is the Veikkaus card that is the starting point. Certainly in three years the world will also be increasingly involved in mobile payment, and in this respect too I believe that this can become a very useful and easy way in which, of course, the bet has an interest in doing this sensibly. The purpose of the Government decree is then to regulate more precisely what kind of identification is possible. Mr Mäkelä referred to the competitiveness of Veikkaus, which is an important issue and especially when it comes to the online casino side. Now we are talking about physical machines that do not compete in mainland Finland, but there is on the Internet. It is estimated that some 30 percent of the gambling clubs are currently running into these games, which are, in their own way, illegally marketed to Finns. This preliminary study project, which will be completed in March, is indeed intended, as I said, to intervene. Mr Järvinen referred in particular to the effects on productivity. However, we are talking here about the long transition period, the impact of less than EUR 20 million on some one billion pots. At the same time, Veikkaus himself estimates that on the digital side profits will increase by up to a third, i.e. more than one hundred million, so this is not the whole point of making a big swing. The composition of the Board of Directors is, above all, a sort of regulatory preparation on the part of the Ownership Steering Unit, but it can also be put behind the ear, to which Mäkisalo-Ropponen and others referred. When Mrs Maijala and Mr Laukkanen referred to the small lotteries, this in itself will now make it possible for small lotteries without a licence, i.e. without a separate licence. In that respect, at least this willful state of Maijala is now being fulfilled in the direction intended. In this respect also Laukkanen's fund-raising law, that in these lotteries, bingo, where the duration of the licence is also extended, it will also be easier to collect such small-scale NGOs in the area of lottery law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u85	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate closes before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item in the order of business is to be moved to the eighth item. Minister Mykkänen will introduce you. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u86	Mr President! The proposal proposes a new fund-raising law. In the future, it would be possible to organise the collection of funds legally using two alternative procedures: either to apply for a permanent permit from the Police Board or to report to the police department in the case of small collections. In addition, certain collections of funds which are not fully covered by the law are provided for, in particular electoral collections which do not need to be applied for or notified. With regard to the permanent authorisation for the collection of funds, a significant reform is that the authorisation for the collection of funds should always be granted as an indefinite period. Current authorisations would be waived. The authorisation procedure would also be streamlined by considerably reducing the current application procedure. However, the organiser of the money collection will submit an annual notification to the Police Board each year. The organisation of the collection of funds, the collection yield, the use of the proceeds and the collections for the coming financial year are reported in an indicative annual plan. The purpose of the fund-raising law would therefore be to support the operating conditions of the third sector and, therefore, the general interest of the organiser and the collection purpose would continue to be required for the granting of the authorisation. In addition, the organiser of small collections will be allowed without authorisation, i.e. subject to notification, to collect citizens, including without a public benefit assessment. However, the collection purposes allowed for small-scale collection would be limited in such a way that the company is not entitled to organise small-scale collections — then there will be the means to do so under crowdfunding legislation if we go to that side. Nor can collections in accordance with the Money Collecting Act be arranged to support business activities or increase the wealth of a legal person. The law would provide that a small collection may be made up to a maximum of EUR 10000 by a single collection and that it should last a total of three months. No more than two collections could be organised by the same entity during the calendar year. And even small collections should be accounted for by the police department two months after the end of the collection, even though the actual permit does not need to be applied for. In addition, the law ensures the right of universities to organise fundraising and strengthens the right of universities and universities of applied sciences — as indeed all other fundraising organisers — to raise funds for capitalisation purposes, if they fulfil the requirements of the fundraising community. Mr President! This proposal would therefore implement the goal of significantly facilitating voluntary activities by reducing the administrative burden and streamlining licensing processes through the collection of funds – it is also very much linked to some of the reforms of the lottery law. The proposal would increase the scope for action by the third sector in organising the collection of funds, in particular through the creation of this public authority procedure, where only permanent authorisation is required for those who regularly organise the collection of funds, and those who organise one-off collections would be subject to the notification procedure in these small collections. The new fund-raising law also promotes civil society in an unregistered form, i.e. in relation to pop-up-type project collections, through small collections and also through these permanent authorisation streamlining measures. The proposal also seeks to respond to new, lighter practices that digitalisation allows for by developing e-services with the Police Government, by abandoning the regional allocation of competences related to fundraising, and also by simplifying the regulation of collection methods.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u87	Mr President! This reform of the fund-raising law is the most welcome reform. After all, this reform, during the last term of government, was taken almost to the end of the line, until, suddenly, in the negotiations between the ministerial groups in the government, the Social Democrats stood up against the motion and the enormous work that was then done was completely unfulfilled. This proposal has now taken advantage of this work and has been improved, and we would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry very much for having had a broad and thorough debate with civil society. In other words, this is very diversely taken into account from a wide range of angles, i.e. it has really been worked out and wanted to work carefully on this law. I could say that this is probably one of the most careful and best-made results of this government this season. The Christian Democrats consider this whole and the solutions in it to be good. The key objective of the reform must be to ensure the reliability of the fundraising process, and this has now been achieved. We all remember and have read in the news how there may be many fraudulent purposes behind the raising of money, even though they look good and respectful outwards. Practical streamlining and cutting red tape are also very welcome. The new small-scale collection permit and facility are also absolutely welcome and serve the needs of many small associations and thus support the activities of non-governmental organisations. The concept of general interest, which has caused a great deal of problems over the last few years — interpretations of what is of general interest — is now being well clarified and defined, so that the authority no longer has to draw lots in its mind in the working groups, when any activity is of general interest, but is being well opened up in this proposal. Another very central point is that now the ordinary association can also use its own website, when it tells about its own activities, put bank account information in its contact details. This had previously been blocked by the Police Government and announced that this account information must not be held there without a fund-raising permit. And this created a very interesting situation when, when the Patent and Registration Board approved the association's rules, the association allowed the collection of money and that the association could raise funds to support its activities. These problems of interpretation will now be eliminated, which will clarify this situation and will certainly be important for many associations. Also among participants in a free-of-charge event organised by an association or foundation registered in Finland to support the purpose of the activities of the association or foundation, the collection of cash donations, when the event is organised indoors, is now removed from the fund-raising permit and the right to raise money is granted. This is particularly important information and news for all congregational congregations in this country that are more than 800. Now these associations, which have organized parish activities — that is to say, behind congregation activities as a legal person — are also coming within the scope of the so-called collection. In the past, this collection was limited to the right of communities. Now, in this law, this is changed so that the association that organizes the service can also arrange for a collection without a permission to collect money as part of its service. When we look at the Finnish parish field, we understand that the majority of these actors are such associations of 50-70 people, for whom it has been completely incomprehensible that they have needed a fund-raising permit for collections in connection with the service. This is now becoming clear, and my warm congratulations to the fact that these associations have been consulted. And as a matter of fact, we have less than 600 congregations in the mainstream church and the Orthodox Church, and these small communities, which act in the form of associations, are over 800, which means they are not a small group. If, according to the old fund-raising permit, it had gone quite literally, it would have meant that every two years these collection kiosks should have been registered in the Police Board, and in this preparation I openly asked whether this is really the case, that the Police Government wants 10,000 victims to be stamped every two years, and how many workers it intends to hire to do so. President-in-Office of the Council, these are practical matters which are now very much being clarified. Also, the removal of fixed-term status is welcome news. Let us now say that this does not remove the obligation for the collector to keep track of where the money has been collected and how it has been spent. It remains very clear in this law, and I think it is good. Finns need to know where they give their money and whether it goes where it is collected, and this is very well taken into account in this law. Mr President! Now I'm gonna end here, and I'm gonna come back if there's a need. Once again, I sincerely wish to send my greetings to the preparatory organisation there. It's been a tough job, but it's been a success. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u88	Mr President! I specifically wanted to stay here in the Chamber to thank the Minister for the fact that this long-term wish of the Volunteers Support Group is now going to the finish line. During this term of government, we did not have a great deal of scope for financial support for the activities of organisations, but instead the aim was to eliminate all unnecessary standards and obstacles to voluntary work. Today, then, voluntary work can now be done with a belly full without fear of its consequences and the unemployed can participate in voluntary work without fear of its consequences. The permit jungle has been lightened in many respects; it is always a matter for the individual sector. For example, roadsides can be cleaned with a little less bureaucracy to raise money, and a hygiene passport is no longer needed to the same extent as before — many of these types of measures. Perhaps one of the biggest things, however, is this clarification of the collection of funds. There were some great fears here that when the collection of money gets easier, some wild days will come and what will happen, but I think that this bill has been very successful in allowing registered old organisations with a public interest purpose to be authorised for the time being, and they will then be able to lighten the procedures, and then even small operators will be able to raise money. Today's world has become a little different: it does not necessarily want to sit down at meetings and participate in administrative activities, but people still have the will to do good, and now even such pop-up-type activities are much easier to do. When people were afraid of what would come of this, we could actually think of a tori.fi element. There could be criminal activity there too, but in a way people are guarding one another, and now that such a notification procedure comes along and this listing is apparently public, so if abuses occur there they will be quite pleasantly caught up with the awareness of the people. In practice, for example, you can collect up to ten tons twice a year. I am thinking of a small practical issue like this when there must be no raising of funds to support business activities or increase the wealth of a legal person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u89	Mr President! There was one thing I was wondering. I believe that the Council of Presidents has made some good judgement, but when this law also refers to the reform of the criminal code and the articles there, I have to ask myself a little question as to why it was not asked for an opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which this should apply in this respect. I was actually pretty sure that this would go there too, but perhaps then the Administrative Committee will decide itself to ask for an opinion. This is what I was wondering a little bit that this was the case. Of course, I do not want to criticise the work of the Council of Presidents in any way, but this is the only point I drew attention to. Then there is one more thing in this proposal which I hope the Committee on Administrative Affairs will take particular note of. It is that the text of the report still has a clear, precise opening-up of the purpose of general interest, because, for example, the police administration interprets the general interest in such a way that it is not a matter of general interest. There's been a lot of wondering about this. The latest solution for this is from the 2016 Turku Administrative Court, which considered the parish activities to be of general interest, and therefore the money from the fund-raising permit was also allowed to be used for the parish administration and the pastor's salary, but the police administration disagreed with this. I would like to see the Committee on Administrative Affairs particularly aware that sometimes the text must be precise so as not to leave these possibilities of interpretation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u90	Mr President! According to my own view, congregational activity would certainly be of general interest. This is at least how we have been presented in the Voluntary Service. I also thought that I would briefly mention the good deed that all these rules of voluntary service have been put together on the democracy.fi website. Let this also be recorded in the parliamentary record if anyone ever reads them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u91	And again, Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u92	Mr President! First of all, thank you for your very constructive, relevant comments. And I must say that many of you certainly have at least the same merit in bringing and getting this bill to this stage as the signatory, including the signatories during this parliamentary term. It is good that, in this very broad consensus, we are now moving forward. Representative Kalmari raised the issue of the ban on the accumulation of wealth in business activities, for example in favour of vulnerable people, such as those in an immigrant situation, if there is such a special case that they want to help. Of course, that will be the challenge of limiting this type in a way, but starting from the fact that the requirement of general interest safeguards the activities of the third sector and also the reliability of the money spent on. These would inevitably make it more difficult to prevent cases of abuse in the case of a private individual, because there are always many of us. I would like to thank Mr Laukkanen, who has already been very active in this area, for his specific attention to the issue of general interest: I am sure that it will be a good thing if the committee continues to comb through this aspect of the explanatory statement in this respect. A certain angle to date has been that if there are tax collection entities, such as municipalities, then it is considered that it is not possible to raise money separately for the purposes of their activities with the permission to collect money. This too has now been sought in such a way that the municipality itself cannot raise money for itself, but if there are purposes that are close to the municipality's remit, then it could still be more flexible and secure to collect money. For example, this project, which I have discussed with the main actors in the project, has of course been of the kind that it was successful, but it was not very simple to make a success of it during the previous fund-raising law. And, of course, in such a situation, it would be preferable for activity to be focused on the matter itself rather than on obtaining a permit. But, of course, in the congregations this is also a false interpretation, if it is thought that tax collection is linked to this, because it is in practice a voluntary, membership-related levy, also on the church tax side, and not in itself a tax liability, in which case it is really intended that the congregations will be in a different position from the municipal, public service-related collection of money. But thank you very much at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u93	Mr President! I would have continued a little further with the previous government proposal, which was a lottery law issue, because it is the same thing in all this, i.e. this kind of small collection of funds by public interest entities. This legislative initiative, which I presented in the previous paragraph, also relates to this same whole. In other words, how can public-interest entities raise funds in different activities? At the moment they are able to collect lottery profits of less than EUR 2000 on certain occasions, but it could work in such a way that they could collect funds with such a small accounting or notification procedure. It would certainly make it easier to raise funds if it involved small lotteries. That is why this proposal also fits in with this fund-raising package, which is to say that we should now give these associations of general interest the opportunity — a small consideration comes when there is a chance of winning the lottery. In other words, the notification obligation, the notification procedure, allows associations to carry out such activities, i.e. to raise funds to maintain their own activities. These are indeed small associations, but how else would they be able to get the money? We know what this paper show is like when we start raising funds. It's a completely ridiculous paper show in its entirety. If there's a lottery, then there's gonna be huge permits to pick up in that job, and at least I'm not going to start throwing a lottery in these next parliamentary elections because it's such a huge show. And I'm a lawyer. What about ordinary laymen who really do not have the money behind them and who do not have the skills to run these jobs? How hard is it for them to start doing these things? During this parliamentary term, when our theme was the dismantling of red tape, we should still find new operating models, opportunities for raising funds for these small associations. And that is why I would like to see this bill on small lotteries organised as a fundraising exercise possible here as a whole. I hope that the committee will also include this legislative initiative in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u94	Mr President! I would like to say that what is great about this law is that this small collection permit, based on the notification procedure, is now up to EUR 10000. So all you can say to the local police station is that you start a small collection, the account numbers of the person in charge, and so on, and it's going to roll.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u95	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u96	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on consular services. According to the proposal, notary services in Finnish diplomatic missions could be provided by the Head of Mission and a person assigned by him to serve in the Delegation. The right to provide notary services in Finnish diplomatic missions, based on official status or a mandate from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, would be waived. Under the current law on consular services, only Finnish missions abroad can provide notary services abroad. The alternative procedures proposed in the presentation will enable the availability of Finnish notary services to be improved in a country where Finland does not have a diplomatic mission. The proposal sounds good in terms of content and is to be welcomed and contributes to the Government's leading project to streamline legislation and dismantle standards. However, I personally do not believe that everything will work in practice in all countries. What interests me most is how to interpret the weighty reason for official certificates and address inquiries. These requests currently employ a great deal in consulates. It is often due to a cancellation in Finland. In Russia, for example, it may be impossible for a private person to obtain such information. I believe that it would be very important to move the handling of claims for redress from the representations to the ministry, because these matters are a huge burden on the delegations even now and they will have to be carried out in cooperation with the lawyers of the Foreign Office. Perhaps we should at least think about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u97	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 15/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u98	Mr President! The Committee on Finance has produced a report on the government's proposal to increase the excise duty on alcoholic beverages by an average of 2.5% and the excise duty on wines by a much higher rate than the average, i.e. 3.7%. The tax increase for wine, which is higher than for other categories of drinks, is justified by reducing the current tax gap between wine and other soft drinks. On average, retail prices of alcoholic beverages would rise by about one per cent, and this would generate an additional EUR 30 million per year for the government. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Finance is that Parliament approve the Government's proposal without amendment. This committee report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u99	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 14/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u100	Mr President! Indeed, it is about reducing the price of a hunting card for young people from EUR 39 to EUR 20. Hunters are currently doing very valuable work. Among other things, they carry out SRVA activities, i.e. large-scale game damage operations. They go to the woods to count game, eliminate small predators, are active members of their village communities. In other words, there are many types of matters other than this batching alone. The rabbit hunt, the duck hunt, and the deer hunt are nice things, and a lot of other activities are done, and it's all on a voluntary basis. At the moment, hunting clubs are becoming obsolete, so to speak, and then it will only be noticed when we go out of the forest to pull them out of the forest, when we see if there are any more young men there to bring them from the forest to the bayhouse. At the latest at this point, people find that the crowd should get younger. In other words, our role in hunting clubs is to ensure that we bring it to these younger hunters and also to young people. There are good examples of this in our region. We have built this sort of Pajunen Wilderness Centre, where school groups can go to see what the Wilderness is. In addition, hunters from our region go to schools to tell about hunting activities. Here is also a campaign at the Hunting Federation, “Youth Society”. It is very good, and it supports this idea, which, even on this legislative basis, is that we get enthusiasm for young people and that is how we get young people to join these clubs. In other words, lowering this fee is one hand-lifting from the direction of the government and the parliament and us, the state, to young people, that there would not be such a great financial threshold to go hunting. Of course, there is a need for a hunter’s degree and a hunter’s card, but I would see that young people have a very good ability to learn, so it is not very difficult to do it. In other words, I fully support this project to show that we need young, active hunters for clubs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u101	Mr President! This government proposal proposes a reduction in the game management fee for persons under the age of 18 from the current EUR 39 to EUR 20. This is an excellent performance in all respects, which lowers the threshold for young people to come to a good hobby. The previous representative here has already almost emptied the bank, so I will not repeat these same things. However, the game - care fee is only one of many cost - increasing factors that every hunter has to pay for his hobby. With this saved 19 euros, the young hunter gets some food for his hunting dog or a box of cartridges. However, this reduction in the game management fee is otherwise significant for the young hunter. There's one thing I've been thinking a lot about, you know, hunting insurance for gamekeeping. The Finnish Game Centre has included compensation for damage caused by large game official duties in the hunter insurance policy. In practice, this means that hunters provide police assistance in large game operations and if, in the performance of the task, a hunting dog, for example, causes damage to an outsider, the damage will be compensated for from the hunter's insurance. In other words, when a hunter provides official assistance to the authority and causes damage, he pays the damage by means of an insurance policy paid for by a game management fee. With such a decision, the Finnish Game Centre will storm the responsibility of hunters and in the future will create upward pressure on the game management fee also for under 18-year-olds. In my opinion, it is unreasonable that when a hunter gives large-scale game assistance to the authorities and happens an accident, he pays for the damage caused by an insurance policy paid for by a game management fee. It's not about hunting. It's about official support for the authorities. How about, for example, when such SRVA activities have been organised by an entirely outside association, i.e. an association that does not have any hunters? However, when such an activity involves livestock damage, the damage would be borne by all hunters. This can't be right. It is worth considering this point and making the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u102	Mr President! I am very pleased and grateful for this proposal that young people will receive this hunter card at a lower cost in the future than parents. This really encourages young people to be involved. Currently, the hunting card is paid in practice by all those involved in the hunt. Of course, the essential reason for this is that it also includes insurance in that journey. Nobody's afraid to go out there hunting without a valid insurance policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u105	Mr President! As we know, hunting plays an important role in Finnish culture and recreational activities. On the other hand, the role of hunting and hunter in game management, stock control or SRVA activities, such as the representative, is less common. The angle here has just brought out a great deal of credit. For the purpose of controlling the stock, the number of hunters must continue to be large enough, be it small beasts or cervids. That is why it is very important that as many young people as possible get to try this wonderful hobby without incurring excessive costs or exceedingly high costs. This is another reason why I am very pleased with this proposal to halve the game-keeping fee for minors. The Association of Hunters has also stressed the importance of involving young people in hunting activities for continuity, and has contributed to encouraging this project, which was already mentioned by the representative of Pirttilahti, in the Youth Society campaign aimed at bringing together young people seeking hunting opportunities and hunting clubs seeking young members. This is very important because, despite this halving of the game-keeping fee, we will have a real challenge in the future to get enough young people into hunting activity to fill the gap that they are leaving. However, the current number of new hunters seems to be insufficient to secure and replace the disappearance of the baby-booms in the next few years. We must therefore take this decision and use all other possibilities to encourage young people to participate in hunting activities and to reduce the threshold as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u106	Mr President! I ran out of there in a bit of a sweat when it was such an important matter for the trial. In other words, young people are encouraged to engage in traditional hobbies, and hunting is one of them. I wanted to make a brief point here that schools could work on promoting a hunting culture, such as batch courses as optional courses. They are at least held in northern schools, and they are very popular. During the round course, for example, you will get the information you need for a hunting card, i.e. the actual degree will then be carried out outside the school, but I would ask you to consider whether this could be done in some way even as a school activity and how payments will be made. Secondly, in the county days of North Ostrobothnia, the batch club was awarded. Club activities are one where young people can get excited, especially those young people who do not have the hunter’s model at home. In other words, we would try to take forward club activities like this around Finland, where hunting and wilderness culture and fishing would also be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u107	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u108	Mr President! This bill concerns the fact that the Kalevalian correction would be recorded in accordance with Article 2 of the Private Health Care Act. So, here's Article 2 A paragraph is added, which also refers to the Kalevala Members' correction, i.e. in practice the exemption from VAT would also apply to the Kalevala Members' correction. We have submitted this bill together with Pekka Puska. We have prepared this matter, and he, as a really well-known professional in the field, has been very familiar with this issue, and I am more of a practical one. And now I am going to tell you a little bit about this Kalevala Members' correction, which is what this is all about. Kalevalian member correction is an EU name-protected treatment that is developed, documented and supervised by only one body, the National Medical Association, with more than 30 years of experience. This treatment, a Kalevalian member correction, means a traditional soft tissue treatment, i.e. mobilization treatment. The need for this is great. It is today that the social dialogue has taken another big step forward, and there is a huge need for us to deal with people. This is a question of good treatment chains for musculo-skeletal patients. The doctor will examine and, if necessary, the member repairer in Kalevala will work, sometimes as necessary, as part of this treatment chain. From the late 1800s onwards, this traditional treatment is based on a documented tradition of tissue treatment, i.e. massage and arthropod placement, which have been opened in today's concept. Master healer Olavi Mäkelä, now 84 years old, who has more than 30,000 treatment experience, is one of the most prominent supporters and promoters of the tradition. Kalevalian member correction was approved by the Ministry of Education on a proposal from the National Board of Antiquities in 17 C.E. as part of the intangible cultural heritage of traditional treatments. From the description of Kalevalian treatment to the treatment of all soft tissues and joints associated with musculoskeletal function, from the soles of the legs to the main surface, strictly avoiding pain, respecting the sensations of the tissues, and using the self-mood lines of the person being treated, especially the joints. The physiological effect of this treatment is that, among other things, when venting muscle tension and balancing tissue pressure, treatment restores the balance of the musculoskeletal system, improves the circulation of tissues and the activation of repair mechanisms. The pressure on the nerves, the wrong postures and the accumulation of tissue fluid are reduced, reducing the pain and loss, if necessary, between, not always, but very often. The movement of joints and metabolism of joint surfaces are improved. And is there any scientific evidence of this? That's the very important thing. There is scientific evidence of this. This scientific evidence and articles published by respected scientific journals can be found in four decades. Studies were previously carried out under the name of a member correction and included, among other things, the master healer Olavi Mäke, mentioned above. And then the results of this Kalevala correction. According to the studies, treatment is the most effective of supportive and musculoskeletal treatments and significantly reduces the use of painkillers and improves the quality of life of customers. Now for the competitive situation. Various studies have shown that there is currently insufficient adequate treatment for musculoskeletal patients. There is also an international need for knowledge. In spring 18, Lancet reported that lower back pain patients are often mistreated. Too many medicines are given to patients and unnecessary surgery is performed. This Kalevalian correction as a form of treatment is very helpful in avoiding unnecessary surgery, unnecessary use of painkillers, without however causing any damage to the person. And then the training. Kalevala member correction is provided only by the National Medical Association, supported by the Kalevala People's Improvement Foundation. The education system is unique — unique — and practical with its self-monitoring and continuing training systems in the field of manual and supportive and musculoskeletal care. Kalevalian member correction training is a three-year practical multi-platform training which requires at least 300 documented treatments. 101 credits are calculated from the training period, including 67 credits, i.e. 2684 hours. In general, only 40% of those who have started training pass. And then the name protection. The name of the Kalevalian member repairer was protected by the EU Harmonization Office in 2005 and may only be used by persons who have completed the training and evidence examination of the National Medical Association and who have signed a commitment to comply with the Society's Code of Ethics. Name protection was carried out to ensure customer safety and to clearly distinguish Kalevala from other levels, including those based on manipulation treatment. And further training is also involved, i.e. registered experts must attend further training organised by the Finnish National Medical Association at least every two years, which at the same time ensures the level of competence. Every year a health seminar is organised in cooperation with different universities. And then, Mr President, control is also very important here. In other words, the right of use of the name is supervised by the Government of the Finnish National Medical Association, which includes members of the scientific community. The right to use a name is controlled by the Patent and Registration Board. Then there is the availability of the Kalevalian correction. Approximately 650 staff members who are applying for a member-repair allowance [The President knocks ] And to the extent that about 350,000 treatments are given each year, and the amount is increasing every year as resources grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u109	Mr President! Organic methods and various religious treatments are basically a positive thing if you feel that you can benefit from them and if they improve your quality of life. However, they must be taken into account that the customer is not in need of actual medical treatment and, of course, particularly careful when it comes to minors, disabled persons or dependent persons. But you, if such a Kalevalian correction helps people and otherwise is basic health and it applies, that's all right. However, as a representative of medicine itself, I see that we must have clear limits on what is scientifically accepted treatment, and it must also be made clear to people what is such official treatment and what is more informal treatment. I understand that this form of treatment has no basis for being an official treatment. And if you think of the treatment that is to be replaced by tax money, it does not meet those criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u110	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Majala for her very comprehensive report on what is a member correction in Kalevala. School medicine is the main form of treatment and protection that must be relied on today, but it must be remembered that people have been treated for millenniums before school medicine even existed. In nature there are drugs in plants that have an undeniable effect on health promotion. There are also fluttering treatments, there are also religious treatments whose effect on a person really is zero, even minus, negative. But this bill is about the Kalevalian correction of members, a highly scientifically researched form of treatment based on Finnish culture. Its health effects are indisputable. So I am in favour of adding the Kalevalian correction to the list of Article 2 of the Private Health Care Act. I would like to thank Mrs Maijala for this bill and I hope she will receive broad support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u111	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Mr Laiho, for being involved and listening to this and taking this matter seriously, because it is very important that people are properly guided, that people can be confident that what we are talking about here in Parliament is certainly true, and that people can count on what we are doing and are taking forward. It is very important here to be aware that this is not a matter of religious treatment, but indeed of various studies, and it is not an alternative treatment. The most essential aspect of alternative treatment is that it is perceived as an alternative to the treatment we are currently undergoing, in accordance with our medical training. It is not an alternative treatment, but very often doctors discuss with their customers that what is the situation, and a lot of doctors, including the doctor I know, at the moment think that if there is a pain situation, some nerve pin or something like this, then it might not always be necessary to go to surgery but could try to see if a traditional Kalevalian member correction will help. So, whether it's massage, physical therapy, or anything else, the essential thing is that it's a treatment that in no way causes any harm to the customer. Very often it has been possible to avoid the need for surgery when the person has been managed with this kind of traditional treatment method and form. Do we have enough scientific research? That is what this is all about, that we certainly have evidence on this issue. I've been told by a lot of people that what kind of crazy thing you're going to go there to show them that you, too, a trained person, are going on a trip to the wildfires of the world. I've done a lot of research on this. I myself have taken a number of treatments for the Kalevalian correction myself, I have been familiar with it, I have had a little study of the course, what they are like, that I would be quite sure that I will by no means start talking about any humbug, that I can speak with the right honest mind about this matter. As the main supporter of this issue, I have certainly had Mr Puska because he has strongly supported this activity, and the Advisory Board for Traditional Cares has held several meetings on this issue. The Advisory Board on Tradition Treatments has taken an initiative to promote formalisation. Professor Pekka Puska, Emeritus professors Osmo Hänninen and Pentti Tuohimaa, professors Sinikka Piippo and Yvonne Holm and doctor Riitta Hii. In addition — Mr President, quickly — including Parliament’s President, Minister of Social Affairs and Health from 2011 to 2014, Paula Risikko, Docent Mika Venojärvi, Professors Timo Santalainen and Timo Ylikomi,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u112	Honorable Speaker! Mr Maijala's initiative is a good one. This Kalevalian treatment has developed continuously and, above all, they have been able to develop its continuous systematic method of training these Kalevalian nurses, so they always have that up-to-date know-how. It must be remembered that many nurses also have several trainings from others, such as osteopaths and similar trainings. They acquire them, and they study and see many customers and work with their hands, stating that conventional methods do not bring the benefit and must use some other movements, must know how to feel, palpate its human body and then use the know-how that exists. I myself have spent quite a long time studying and receiving these treatments and taking care of people myself, and it is only so that, on a Finnish scale, I believe we have about 200 million questions about these back problems and how much they affect people's ability to work in general these relatively minor slippages and the back problems they cause, the loss of their backs. Ordinary medicine is a little bit that when you go to complain about some pain, then you give a painkiller, and necessarily the back will never be tested at hand, which might be wrong there, but then again, when the patient goes to the Kalevalian nurse, he will immediately get help from one treatment, and that help may save society a great deal. Therefore, I would see that our strength in Finland as a whole is that we have such a concept and such a treatment as the Kalevalian treatments or caustic treatments, whatever. Why not, then, accept this as part of society so that everyone can use these services? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u113	Mr President! Supportive and musculoskeletal disorders are a very important group, and it is worth investing in these non-medical treatments as well. I agree with that. Of course, physical activity in particular is of paramount importance. If we think about these professional titles, we have physiotherapists who work with clients with a lot of support and musculoskeletal diseases, and they can also expand their own skills to different types of activities. And if we are to consider what we take from tax money to be reimbursed, then we must be very careful that we are actually equal to the various forms of treatment. That if we take this correction of the Kalevalian Members, we will have many other people who are perceived to be good and who have very good results but for whom we do not have any real strong scientific evidence. And when we think about what needs we have today and will become more and more in the future, such as medication, developing medical treatment, then we must set the limits on what society is willing to pay. There is nothing to prevent people from going to these receptions and paying for them themselves. Of course, that's okay.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u114	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the 40 Members of Parliament who have had time to sign this. Many have told me afterwards that he too would have signed this initiative. The fact that we do not have enough research evidence at the moment — which, by the way, there is quite a lot of evidence about this. In other words, according to my information, there seemed to be much more research data on this Kalevala member correction than on any other form of treatment in Finland that is not yet formalised. Indeed, the problems of the musculo-skeletal system in Finland are the most important problem at the moment, which we should be able to overcome. And the first thing, of course, is that people take care of their own movement and condition. So moving is the absolute first thing for all of us, but when it does not always help, then it is good that people have some other ways to help themselves. And we should all be able to afford to seek help for ourselves. Through the state, social welfare costs are absolutely absurd, and we should be able to and should strive to reduce them very much. The problems of the musculo-skeletal system are the problems of billions of euros, and a large part of them could be corrected and treated with this Kalevalian correction. Thank you for making this matter go a long way. And again: a great many masseuses and physiotherapists have also qualified themselves for this Kalevalian correction, and thus they have received this training and these treatments for use in these matters. And I really hope that we can take this forward. What, then, is the mode or model that gives us the best results? As a professional in the field, I may not know yet, but I hope that we will be able to work together and develop the matter further so that we can reduce the total costs of the musculo-skeletal diseases. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u115	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. In this context, the 19th item of the agenda will also be allowed to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u116	Mr President! The subject of this referral debate is my legislative initiative aimed at improving the safety of children by proposing to amend Articles 2 and 3 of the Law on the Investigation of the Criminal Background of Persons Working With Children. Under the current legislation, employers must ask persons working with minors to present an extract from the criminal record when entering the employment or service relationship. This extract reveals possible crimes against the child, including sexual, violent and narcotic crimes. Unfortunately, however, the law does not currently apply to those tasks that last a year for a total of no more than three months. This is a very bad situation. For example, day-care centres require the hiring of short-term substitutes whose criminal background the employer does not even have the right to inspect if he wishes. Mr Mika, Member of Parliament of the People's Republic of Finland Earlier this autumn in Parliamentary Question Time, Niikko very rightly pointed out the fact that the City of Vantaa received the blame from the Parliamentary Ombudsman after also checking the criminal background of short-term substitutes and therefore Vantaa is no longer able to carry out these very important checks in this respect. Mr President! In addition to employers, the three - month rule restricting the investigation of the criminal record has given rise to reasonable confusion among parents. In addition to work in day - care centres, many other work with children is often faced with situations where employment lasts for a few days or weeks at most. Of course, the criminal record should also be clarified in these cases, but the law is certainly not possible. In his reply to my written question earlier this autumn, the Minister for Labour, Jari Lindström, has also stated that the change in the labour market and the increase in the need for replacement arrangements after the entry into force of the current law in 2003 should be taken into account when assessing this legislation and its need for change. Thomas Kurttila, the Child Affairs Ombudsman, understandably sees the current state of the law as very problematic and requires correction. Kurttila has also stated that an extract from a criminal background should be required proactively from jobseekers registered in replacement registers. The views of the Ombudsman for Children are fully justified, and the law requires prompt correction. Mr President! Strengthening the safety of minors is a key responsibility of the legislator. The legislative initiative under consideration also provides for the investigation of the criminal background of persons working with children for a short time by removing the three-month period for the duration of employment from Article 2(3) of the Act. In addition, this bill would require the employer to request an extract from the employee in connection with the registration of the offence on the occasion of registration as a substitute, and a new paragraph 4 would be added to Article 3 of the Act. As a result, the employer using the register must ask the jobseeker for an extract of the criminal background without undue delay when registering in the register. This increase is necessary because employers have very little time at their disposal to find replacements, for example in cases of illness. In these situations, the potential criminal background of the applicants should be known well in advance, especially given the seven working days of processing of the criminal record at the Legal Register Centre. Mr President! The True Finns demand that these changes be recorded in the law without delay during this parliamentary term. The amendments we have proposed would improve the safety of children, offer parents peace of mind and facilitate the position of employers and those seeking employment without criminal background. Mr President! Fortunately, there are also concrete hopes for progress to the law. On 18 October, the Finns asked the Minister of Justice Häkkuse whether he was prepared to contribute to the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children. Minister Häkkänen promised to address this issue with the assistance of officials from the Ministry of Justice and, if necessary, to take prompt action. I very much hope that the Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, will remember his promise before Parliament and take concrete action. This is a very important issue, the safety of Finnish children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u117	Mr President! There must be no compromise on the safety of children, and this investigation of the criminal background of those working with children is of paramount importance for all employees, whether they are short-term or longer-term. I have therefore put forward a written question on this last spring and a legislative initiative on the same subject, to which Mr Häkkänen indeed took part in Question Time on 18 October. He also referred to and promised to focus on this important matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u118	Mr President! I personally do not know what could be more important than the safety of children. What else is the most valuable thing for decision-makers than guaranteeing the safety of innocent children? That must be guaranteed by legislation. This is cheap prevention. Unfortunately, people who tend to get involved in children seek out areas where there are many children. They know the law and they know the loopholes there. We can't afford to take risks like this. It is about the integrity of young children and their entire lives. This bill seeks a change in the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children. I myself was making a bill on this, and I was already running it a little bit in the parliamentary group. But then Sami Savio, because all Finns are interested in the safety of children, was a long way off, so I thought I would sign this initiative of course. All Finns in Finland are interested in this law. It is precisely in this law that we want to tackle it because day-care centres have to hire short-term substitutes whose criminal background is not the right of the employer to check if they are less than three months old. You have to have the right to check, you have to have the obligation to check. Secondly, what Mr Savio has already said is that Mr Kurttila, the child affairs representative, sees as a very problematic fact that this criminal background is not already proactively present in the register. This is cheap prevention. This will certainly improve the safety of children. The integrity and safety of children must be the top priority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u119	Mr President! At present, the law on the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children obliges the employer to ask the persons working with minors to have a record of the offence when entering the employment or service relationship. The extract shows possible crimes against the child, including sexual, violent and narcotic crimes. At present, the application of this law is incomplete as it does not apply to nests that last for a maximum of three months during the year. In practice, this unfortunately means a black hole for disturbed people to get close to children through work. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! So there's a black hole in the law now. After all, the purpose of the current law is to prevent those with a dubious background from working with children, but in practice some of the people are going and coming without any explanation. It is obvious that a change is needed here. This three - month rule, which restricts the investigation of the criminal record, has caused confusion from time to time, especially among parents. The situation in the field is that day care centres often have to rely on short-term substitutes whose criminal background they are not entitled to check. Similar situations also occur in many other workplaces where minors are involved. The situation is also problematic, according to the Ombudsman for Children, Thomas Kurttila. The government should now listen to the voice of concerned parents and experts and correct the problem. Current practice is a risk to the safety of minors. I give my 100% support to Mrs Savio's good bill, which proposes that people working with children on a short-term basis should also be required to check the criminal background. As Mr Huhtasaari has already mentioned, guaranteeing the safety of children is really important to all Finns in the form of a law. So, once again, I am in favour of Mr Savio's bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u120	Mr President! Mr Savio and other representatives who have signed this bill have done an excellent job. In today's world, unfortunately, there are really sad cases of child abuse, and unfortunately they have also occurred in such places as day-care centres and similar places. This bill, which representatives have made, is quite excellent, and I wonder that this kind of loophole legislation is usually left behind. There is far too little talk of child welfare in this country. Small children must be protected from this evil world by all reasonable means at their disposal and so that, for example, those who work with children really have to adapt from the very beginning to the fact that they have clean papers when they go into the childcare sector. For example, in many other professions, we demand that we have certificates and syllabuses in order, and we have clear records of nurses and local nurses, and so on, that they are up to the task that they have received, and the training is good. In the area of childcare, too, such an agreement must be reached; there must be legislation that requires everyone working in that area to have these proper grips, that the person has nothing in the past that could endanger the welfare of the child. I warmly support the initiative taken by the representatives and thank you for the dedication with which Mr Savio and others have devoted themselves to this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u121	Mr President! The protection of children is, of course, the first thing, and I have to say that in my own time before 2015, this proposed pattern was quite everyday. In other words, when a substitute was acquired in the autumn and then wondered what his future year would be like, when he learned that after three months an extract needed to be presented, they generally suggested that I could get now. At the time, it was good to enter in the replacement register that the extract has been presented. So it was not known at the time that this was perhaps not an acceptable procedure, but this was generally suitable for these substitutes. But in this connection, too, this concern about the lack of grasping by volunteers. In other words, it is now possible for clubs to obtain permission for these extracts, and I think it is a small number if only about 4,500 copies were presented in the previous year. In other words, we should inform and encourage these voluntary organisations to regularly ask sports clubs and other people working with children — that this kind of opportunity exists — and then eradicate this unfortunate phenomenon from society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u122	Mr President! I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for and support for this legislative initiative, all of which rightly stressed the importance of children's safety and called on the legislator to take urgent action to remedy it. After all, legislation is being adopted here in Parliament, and we Members of Parliament are ultimately responsible for it. As I also said in my presentation, the Finns of Peru greeted with great joy the positive attitude expressed by Minister of Justice Häkkänen during the October Question Time and the serious attitude towards this subject. After all, he promised to work it out with his department's officials. And it is hoped that these necessary legislative changes will see the light of day as soon as possible, preferably by the end of this parliamentary term, why not earlier, on the side of this year. If there is a will, then there is certainly a chance of rapid progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u123	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u124	Mr President! I have made a legislative initiative to amend Article 2 of the Law on the investigation of the criminal background of persons working with children so that a criminal record is also requested in short-term employment relationships. Our main task is to guarantee the safety of children in various activities, where children are cared for and taught, whether in school, day care centres, hobbies, leisure activities. Currently, according to the law, the criminal background investigation procedure applies to, for example, day care staff, in practice in the municipal sector and in private day-care centres, but also to those seeking employment as a kindergarten teacher and nanny, but only in the case of employment for more than three months. After all, this person who is looking for a job orders a criminal record extract himself. It's not very expensive. It costs 12 euros. The criminal record shall include all court decisions that are more severe than the penalty, offences against children and penalties for sexual offences. Of course, it is perfectly understandable that sometimes you have to take over very suddenly, but those situations should indeed be exceptional and rare. The problem at the moment in the field is that we must not even ask for those criminal reports. We have an ombudsman's line on this, which has led to the fact that, for example, clubs and organisations are very careful to ask for it, because the ombudsman's line has been interpreted in such a way that it cannot be done. This is a very important issue. I myself am the chairman of the Children's Association's Board, and this message has also been sent from there that we must not ask for this criminal investigation, even if they want it. I have asked a written question on this issue last spring, and I wanted to make this a further legislative initiative in order to speed up the process of remedying this issue. There's a clear loophole in the law here. Similarly, for example, when it comes to private professionals who act under their own name, we should see to it that everyone who works with children has the background cleared up. There are also many different summer camps and others. And, in practice, if we make this strict, so that only permanent employment or long-term employment are required, there is no need for special mathematics and logic to think that people who are disturbed so that they do not think in the best interests of children can then seek jobs where there is no risk of being caught. Attorney General Häkkänen is 18.10. In Question Time, we promised to look into this bill that I have submitted, taken it very seriously, and hopefully it will still be possible to take it forward during this term of government. For this bill I have received plenty of signatories across party boundaries, and it can indeed be seen that promoting the safety of children is the will of all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u125	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mrs Laiho for her active work on this matter, which has already been discussed, in order to remedy the shortcomings of the law on the investigation of the criminal record with children. There seems to be a very strong consensus on this issue on the basis of a cross-party debate, at least today in this Chamber, and the representatives of the government parties have indeed been very unanimous in their support for the absolute need to change the current law. I would now like to make a request or wish to Mr Laiho that he should continue to make a strong contribution in his own parliamentary group to this matter, and when the meeting has the portfolio of the Minister of Justice — Mr Häkkänen has, in my opinion, been very helpful during this parliamentary term and is perhaps the best, if not the best, minister in this government — I hope that the minister will make a quick contribution to this issue when he apparently also has a willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-07-ps-110.u126	Mr President! There is no desire to compromise the safety of children and, of course, to push forward all the things that can contribute to the safety of children, if that is possible. I believe that Mr Häkkänen has taken this issue seriously, as he has pointed out. And for my part, I will continue to take this matter forward to him. I am glad that there is indeed an agreement on this in this whole Chamber.
