ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 28/2018 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 19 December 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u2	Let's go to section 24. State Department's administration. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 19 December 2018. Let's start with a detailed examination of the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u3	Emma Karin's proposal 3, Maarit Feldt-Santa's proposal 4, Kari Uotila's proposal 5, Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 6 and Mika Niko's proposal 7 relate to the same appropriation, so we shall vote against the proposal 6, against the proposal 5, against the proposal that has won 4 and against the proposal that has won it. We shall now vote against the winning proposal 7 and, finally, against the winning report. - It's easy!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u4	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 19 December 2018. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of Section 29.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u5	Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 30 and Kari Uotila's proposal 31 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 31 against 30 proposals and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u6	Sari Essayah proposal 39, Thomas Blomqvist proposal 40, Kari Uotila proposal 41, Emma Kar proposal 42 and Jukka Gustafsson proposal 43 relate to the same appropriation. The first vote is 43 against 42, followed by 41 against. The vote will then take place against the winning proposal 40 and then against the winning proposal 39. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u7	Emma Karin's proposal 49 and Jukka Gustafsson's proposal 50 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 50 against 49 proposals and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u8	Antero Laukkanen's proposal 56, Jukka Gustafsson's proposal 57, Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 58, Kari Uotila's proposal 59 and Emma Kar's proposal 60 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 60 against 59, followed by 58 against. The vote will then take place against the winning proposal 57 and then against the winning proposal 56. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u9	Mr Östman's proposal 66, Mr Gustafsson's proposal 67, Mr Blomqvist's proposal 68, Mr Uotila's proposal 69 and Ms Karin's proposal 70 are the same. The vote will take place first on the proposal 70 against 69 and then on 68 against. The vote will then take place against the winning proposal 67 and then against the winning proposal 66. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u10	Emma Karin's proposal 80, Kari Uotila's proposal 81 and Jukka Gustafsson's proposal 82 relate to the same thing. The vote will take place first on the proposal 82 against 81, followed by 80 against. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u11	Mr Gustafsson's proposal 105, Mr Östman's proposal 106, Mr Uotila's proposal 107 and Mr Blomqvist's proposal 108 are the same. The vote will take place first on proposal 108 against proposal 107 and then on the winning proposal 106. The vote will then take place against the winning proposal 105 and, finally, against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u12	Mr Gustafsson's proposal 111 and Mr Uotila's proposal 112 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u13	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 19 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 30.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u14	Emma Karin's proposal 26 and Kari Uotila's proposal 27 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u15	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 19 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 31.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u16	Arja Juvosen's proposal 48 and Johanna Karimäki's proposal 49 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 49 against 48 proposals and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u17	Mrs Taimela's proposal 69 and Mr Kankaanniemi's proposal 70 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u18	Kari Uotila's proposal 90 and Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 103 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 103 against 90 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u19	Emma Karin's proposal 131 and Kari Uotila's proposal 132 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 132 against 131 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u20	As we now have more time than anticipated for these votes, we shall move on to 5. on the subject, since it has been agreed that after Question Time the budgetary procedure will continue at 5 p.m. in the main class of the STM.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u21	Presentation of Section 33 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u22	Madam President! The budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health amounts to EUR 15 billion. The largest section is almost the same size as this year. Unemployment security expenditure will decrease by nearly EUR 300 million, but expenditure on health insurance, housing allowance and pensions will increase due, among other things, to the increase in minimum daily allowances and guarantee pension. EUR 362 million is distributed to social welfare organisations. To the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the Committee has increased EUR 1.2 million for the development of national health quality registers and a new EUR 200,000 for the preparation of the Good Practice Recommendation on CFS. EUR 1.2 million will be allocated to the national development of food aid activities for those in need of special support. The need for food aid is great in various parts of the country. In addition, the committee shall allocate EUR 150000 to extend the activities of assisting dogs intended for disabled or disabled persons. There's not enough helper dogs. The operating expenditure of the Social Insurance Institution has increased due, among other things, to the large increase in the workload caused by the active model. The committee considers it important that Kela's operations are safeguarded in order to be able to cope with its statutory tasks within the time limit. A total of EUR 218700000 is proposed to support veterans and war-qualified people, with an increase of EUR 28 million. The appropriation for Veterans rehabilitation activities will amount to EUR 58.4 million, with an increase of more than EUR 16 million. Next year, 1.11. From now on, veterans will receive the same services to be taken home as those of the war ombudsmen. The Committee considers it important for the municipalities to have the contact details of veterans for the delivery of assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u25	Thank you, and then let us go to the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u26	Madam President! Thank you to the President-in-Office for the presentation. This draft budget by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health aims to prevent inequality. Minimum daily allowances and guarantee pension will be increased, the status of family members of adoption and plural families, front veterans and entrepreneurs will be improved. The administrative sector accounts for EUR 15 billion of the state budget, which is about a fourth of the state budget. This appropriation is approximately EUR 27 million higher than the actual budget for 2018. Despite the moderate change in the overall allocation, there are changes within the section. The biggest changes are due to an increase in employment, resulting in unemployment security expenditure falling by around EUR 300 million. In order to reduce inequalities, rehabilitation allowance and special care allowance, minimum sickness and parental allowances will be increased by EUR 80 per 50 cent per month, i.e. to the same level as labour market support. The 55-day allowance is abolished and the sickness allowance is paid to everyone at least at a minimum. The annual liability limit for medical benefits will be reduced by approximately EUR 40. With regard to the draft budget, regarding the study of young people in a difficult position and the improvement of employment, I would like to say the following: They are paid rehabilitation allowance for the entire duration of the rehabilitation decision. This proposal will be cost-neutral in 2019 but will increase the costs of the state from 2020. The guarantee pension is estimated to be increased by EUR 9 per month. The pension allowance, the rehabilitation allowance for young people and the minimum daily allowance for vocational rehabilitation will also be increased, and the limit for leaving the pension for rest will increase accordingly to the level of the guarantee pension. It is proposed to extend the area of pension aid, the so-called Lex Lindström, to cover the new age categories. A person aged 60 years or more and who has been unemployed for five years could receive the pension allowance if he so wishes in the future. In addition, the non-remunerated period of unemployment benefit is reduced from 90 to 60 days. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health wants to ensure flexible implementation of the income support treatment and active model, and therefore an increase of EUR 11.4 million is proposed in the operating expenditure of the Social Security Funds of the Social Insurance Institution. With regard to the competitiveness agreement, the employer's social security contribution will be reduced, which will increase the need for the appropriation by approximately EUR 165 million. Social security legislation based on housing will be reformed in such a way that workers entering Finland will no longer be required to meet the requirements for a minimum period of four months of employment and weekly working hours. In the future, the right to housing benefits will be created on the basis of the fulfilment of minimum earnings. At the same time, the right of foreign full-time students to housing-based social security is facilitated, but on the other hand, the right of persons working abroad and living in Finland to social security is strengthened. These changes will reduce central government expenditure by around EUR 0.4 million. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health specifies the provisions of the Health Insurance Act on the determination of parental allowances in such a way that it is not considered gainful employment to perform a municipal trust. As a result of the change, the parental allowance could be paid in full for days when the parent is in positions of trust. The legal protection of members of the family of entrepreneurs has given rise to a lot of public debate. The right of the non-owner family member to unemployment benefit will be facilitated and the status of the non-owner family member of the entrepreneur will be changed from an entrepreneur to an employee. The conditions of employment of the non-owner family member are set at 12 months and a reference period of 12 months is laid down during which the family member of the entrepreneur was not allowed to hold ownership or control over the enterprises. The reception of short-term work will be facilitated. The reconciliation of unemployment benefit will move from the current reconciliation according to the earned income date to the mediation according to the settlement date of the income. For the rest, the provisions on mediation remain unchanged. In addition to the above, veterans are supported by a total of EUR 218.7 million, which is EUR 28.7 million more than in the 2018 actual budget. In the future, the same domestic services will be allocated to the front veterans as to the war veterans, as of 1 November 2019. In addition, a new additional allowance will be provided for the injured and the next of kin of the deceased in the performance of military service. I would also like to thank the section for its cooperation during the year. Thank you also to the members of the committee and to the chairman of the committee. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u27	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In my area of responsibility, the budget has a theme that includes large items, a lot of money, familiar issues such as child benefits or a whole package of income support. In this speech, I would like to make a few minor comments, both on the section's actions, which have been noted with thanks, and on the government's own proposals, which were already made in the budget debate in due course, and which have now passed Parliament's deliberations. As one theme, just like Mr Kangasniemi, I am raising the issue of child protection. To grow up, to be strong, a child needs love, boundaries, and care. When, for one reason or another, a child cannot live with his or her own parents, his or her right to security and good treatment is emphasised, and that is why this budget has been designed to strengthen the guidance and supervision of child protection, that is, quality. These resources will be strengthened by less than EUR 1 million. It will create new posts in the Regional State Administrative Agency for supervisory tasks, and also improve the expertise of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health over child protection, as well as THL. In this context, the consultation of children on their own matters will also be stepped up. This will be introduced as a legal provision which is currently under discussion in Parliament. The second theme I would like to highlight relates to the whole of shelters. Although they are a difficult, painful national theme of intimate partner violence, the decisions of this term of government deserve to be mentioned. The appropriation for sheltered homes has been systematically increased every year, even for the coming year by another EUR 2 million, so that we spend almost EUR 20 million of our common funds in favour of shelters. I welcome the active development work that is also under way on this topic together with the Ministry of the Interior. We have in our active reflection the theme “Is mediation compatible with close-to-partner violence” among others. In this context, I would like to draw from the budget the mediation activity, not so much in this difficult theme, in relation to violence in close relationships, but otherwise in relation to the mediation of crimes and minor offences, which I am pleased to see, in addition to the fact that the government, in its own motion, allocated additional appropriations to it, the fees for volunteers are now being increased by a proposal from the section and Parliament's Committee on Finance. It will increase reconciliation and reduce pressure in our judicial system when we are able to strengthen the conciliation system. In addition to sheltering, I will highlight the treatment of substance abuse mothers, which is now set aside for EUR 3 million, the same amount as in 18 this year. This has been an eternity issue, I suppose you could almost say, here in parliamentary debates. An individual and quite topical theme emerges from the vaccination programme. The national programme will now be extended to extend the influenza vaccinations in children up to the age of six, with 1 million being allocated. In this context, I would also like to inform Parliament about the current and very worrying debate on the vaccine, including the case of Luoto, and I would like to thank the authorities in the region for their excellent work. We are now setting up a working group on vaccination coverage with the National Institute for Health and Welfare to consider the national means by which vaccination coverage in these critical areas would be strengthened, as the expert view strongly supports the view that coercion would not be the best way. Mr President! As other themes, I would like to highlight the role of adoptive and plural families. These shortcomings, on the one hand, and the specific needs of the group, on the other hand, were strongly highlighted in the preparation of the reform of family leave. As far as the reform of the family leave is concerned, I have invited all the parliamentary parties to hear about that preparation during this parliamentary term, which is certainly in order to support the debates on the next parliamentary elections. Above all, it is good to strengthen the possibility of adoption in an ageing Finland for those who, for one reason or another, do not have a biological child. The cost of adoption is too high and support for those entering the adoption process is insufficient. EUR 0.5 million will now be allocated to the renewal of benefits for adoption and plural families. Mr Mattila has already raised a very important national cooperation decision on support for veterans. Front veterans are now placed on an equal footing with war veterans in relation to the services to be delivered home. I would also like to express my thanks to Parliament for this question of the degree of disadvantage that has now been corrected for invalids by the committee's own legislative initiative. On the other hand, I also welcome the fact that now, with the strong message of the Parliament in the STM, a new law will be prepared to raise the breast dishes to compensate for index freezing. Finally, I would like to thank the section and the Committee on Finance for their work on research funding. It was even further strengthened by the government's own proposals. Research funding for University-level research in health care has long been a tragedy, and now that figure has finally been turned in the right direction. It is also very important to support practical work in the light of the forthcoming reform of the social welfare district, which the government has allocated EUR 211 million to prepare for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u28	Thank you. - Now we have the presentations taken care of, and then we'll go to the debate right now. Would the President-in-Office of the Section, Mr Kankaanniemi, like to make his first debate? — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u29	Mr President! Unfortunately, the sound's starting to collapse, but I think we'll be fine. [Heckling] We have been concerned about the adequacy of the operating expenses of the Social Insurance Institution, and the need would still have been about 18 million, according to Kela. In the supplementary proposal, there was 11.6 million, which means that this must be followed closely by: The Social Insurance Institution will be able to perform its duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u30	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the section for its good work. It's a huge job you always have ahead of you there. As a former member of the section, I can say that very important work is being done in this area, once again. Then to ministers: First of all, Minister Mattila, I thought I would take the floor now that when old wisdom says that no one can go back to the past and make a fresh start, but anyone can start tomorrow, the rest of their journey differently, the fact that the 2017 freezes on the indexes, i.e. the level of benefits, that are actually a hard and painful thing because of the low growth in the economy, but even though the economy is growing, these freezes are still being made. Now this logic doesn't work. There are some improvements, but I ask: why did we not end up canceling this unfortunate decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u31	Madam President! Often, even in the last few days, I have heard the claim that this government was somehow particularly bad for children and families with children. That is not true. During this term of government, it has been decided, among other things, to start the development of a child strategy, to support employers who remain on maternity leave with a lump sum of EUR 2500, to increase the single parent increase in the child allowance, to increase the minimum parental allowance by almost EUR 100 per month, to increase the maternity allowance, to ensure that municipal trust fees do not in future reduce parental allowances, to extend parental leave for adoptive families and for plural families, to facilitate recognition of the fatherhood of the family living in a common-law relationship, to reduce the early childhood education fees on two occasions, and so on. This is where I almost got in the middle of the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u34	Madam President! The consideration of children in adult mental health services has a significant impact on the state economy. For example, last year, disability pension expenditure for mental disorders amounted to EUR 736 million, which was 38 per cent of all disability pension expenditure. At the same time, we know that it is precisely young people who are on disability pensions for reasons of depression and various mental disorders that have been increasing in recent years, when the curve has gone down for the rest of the adult population. That is why I have been particularly concerned about Parliament in recent years about how we can turn this curve for the better. And I must say that I was a little disappointed that there was no proposal for a reform of mental health services for the rest of the year. I would have asked you, when I am sure you in the Ministry have thought about this: what kind of plans do you have, for example, for the rest of the term or for the next parliamentary term, as to how we could improve
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u35	Madam President! A prerequisite for good care tomorrow is a university-level health research. That level of funding has fallen like a cow's tail during previous governments. This government has now evened this out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u36	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for those initial words. It seemed a little strange that Minister Mattila made a very strong point in his opening speech that the purpose of this budget is to prevent inequality, when it is this week that we have been given clear facts about how inequality has grown in Finland and that more and more Finns are heading towards last-minute income security, i.e. income support. These decisions also have an impact on health and well-being. Do you think, Minister Mattila, that this is a reduction in inequality? You have also pointed out on several occasions the increases in benefits, for example in terms of the minimum guaranteed pension and sickness allowance, and these are in themselves good increases and reforms, but they represent only one tenth of the total amount of your indexation. First you took $300 million, and then you gave back $30 million. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u37	Mr President! In the field of STM, this big and important social waste has employed a lot, but alongside it there are many good reforms in this budget, especially to the most painful problems. I would like to ask about the important expert support for decision-making when there has been so much reduction in THL funding: My concern is not the THL itself, but the tragedy of having to stop or reduce very important national tasks in this area. This situation is particularly due to the implementation of the so-called research institute reform during the previous government, which took millions away, except from THL as well as other research institutes, such as separate projects and at the same time weakened directly the research, monitoring and expert tasks that serve the field and politics, not least those required by the social services. This mistake should be corrected, and how does the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u38	Madam President! The availability of health services is also substantially linked to medical helicopters. The reform ministerial group today decided to place a doctor helicopter in Utti instead of Lappeenranta. I am very surprised at this decision. The expert groups and a number of expert opinions supported the placement of a medical helicopter in Lappeenranta in connection with the extensive emergency services at Eksote. This line was also supported by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, as investing in Utti places part of the residents of South-East Finland in an unequal position compared to other Finns. Part of the region of South Karelia and South Savo is excluded from the rapid response time. Mr Saarikko, what do you justify this decision if your experts do not agree? What do you have to justify this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u39	Mr President! There is a lot of praise in the budget and I think we have gone in the right direction. Many big things have moved on, even though the reform of social services is still not decided. However, I would like to raise a key but small point from the point of view of our own security. The extension of the national vaccine programme by degree should actually be a fundamental issue for each government programme. And I would like to thank you for the EUR 1 million that has now been added to the influenza vaccines for children. Similarly, the creation of a working group on the reduction of vaccine pro-vaccination or vaccine-negativeness is a good step. However, the staff’s resistance to influenza vaccines is reflected in the constant communication we receive, and each year we observe about 500 additional statistical deaths during the influenza season. What action has the Ministry taken to increase the vaccine pro-vaccination of staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u40	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! First of all, I would like to thank you for the extension of the vaccination programme — that is a great thing. However, we have recently read about measles cases in different parts of Finland and found that vaccine coverage is weaker in Ostrobothnia, for example, where a small child has contracted measles, but also an adult Espoan has contracted this same disease abroad. And the Ministry has been talking about this importance of information.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u41	Mr President! Here I would like to start by thanking the ministers for their good presentations, but unfortunately I have to say right away that the freezing of the national pension index and other indices decided on at Christmas is a very bad Christmas gift for the low-income and, unfortunately, leads to the loss of purchasing power of the low-income ones due to inflation. It will also increase the increase in income expenditure. Problems also remain in the ongoing reform of social security, especially in the context of increased freedom of choice. The objective is, of course, positive, but the high risk is, in particular, the rise in customer fees by several tens of percent. I ask the ministers: how will you be able to ensure that the poor will also be able to visit the doctor in the future and will not have to compromise on it even if the customer charges increase? Finally, I would like to thank the committee for its support of EUR 1.2 million for food aid organisations, which was included in the alternative budget for Finns. Apparently, the opposition can also be influenced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u42	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for the work you have done over these years. You have had the most difficult tasks as ministers, but you have had your head up — and your head cold too — to take these things forward, as you have had to. With regard to this additional front issue, it is very important that this too was raised here, that is, one way or another, it will be taken care of at the beginning of the year. I do call it an accident at work that this is how things are at this stage, but that is how things are going to be done. This issue of index freezing was also raised here. I saw that on April 18th. This year, the Minister of Finance had stated that these freezes would be removed, that the ‘seine instruments’,the frameworks and economics agreed in the Government programme were justified. This is the big picture on the basis of which these are still in force. But I would also particularly like to thank Lex Lindström for his second, which is very important to the long-term unemployed in particular, and I would like to ask how you see the continuation of this: what solutions can be used in the future to safeguard the status of this population group?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u43	Mr President! I would hope that, in this section in particular, we could have a phenomenal budgetary debate, because we would probably have it for the elderly or for families with children or for inequality, and the whole ministry would be full of ministers — it affects all other ministries. But perhaps it is a picture of a later stage, for I am quite sure that this Parliament will also talk a lot about the elderly and the children in the next period. The number of families with children and children is decreasing, and the number of older people is increasing. That is the direction we certainly want to change. In fact, I would have asked Minister Mattila when you make important increases to the daily allowance — thank you for it — but my attention is drawn to the fact that you also make index freezes. I would like to ask you more generally as a social policy view: do you see that the indices have some meaning? What do you think of the need for indexes, as it were, from a social policy perspective?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u44	Madam President! Here I would like to join in these thanks to the committee and its section, in particular the section of the Committee on Finance, for having managed the support of food aid organisations. There was also a proposal from the Christian Democrats on the opposition. Thank you, too, for wanting to address indoor air problems. And then, in common with all the parliamentary groups, thank you for having achieved equal treatment between veterans and war ovals. However, I would have liked to ask the ministers about this tax reform and the subsequent competition for Kela rides and the confusion it has caused the sick and disabled. Indeed, because of the confusion of the rides, there have been no treatments and then disabled children have ended up in the wrong places. I would have asked: is there any way in which the ministry is going to continue to follow or shepherd this matter in the direction of Kela? This is a single concern in people's daily lives, one of the greatest concerns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u45	Madam President! Statistics Finland's low income statistics also contain positive news that was not mentioned during Question Time: the poverty rate of single-parent families has fallen. That is really great news, and that is what has been invested in. Another good news I want to tell you is that a recent survey describes the impact grandparents have on children's lives. That is very important. The presence of grandparents reduces children’s anxiety and behavioral disorders and feelings of loneliness, among other things. Jouni Välijärvi is one of the authors of this report. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's idea of whether we could do something about raising the role of grandparents in a child's life. In the case of divorced families, this issue has already been dealt with in the context of this law. Grandparents are a very important factor in the well-being of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u46	Mr President! I too would like to highlight this research and development in health care, and in particular these quality registers and treatment recommendations, which aim to improve the effectiveness of treatments and patient safety and, of course, this evidence-based approach to care, which is part of patient safety. However, I am concerned that, although we are doing a very good research which should help our health professionals, it often happens that these good practices do not spread but are merely research results. So would the Minister have any wisdom in how we could spread these good practices more effectively?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u47	Madam President! I would, of course, like to remember that Finland is the best country in the world, and yet it is good to live and live here: we have free education and health care and we are safe. But then, of course, this aspect must also be raised before Christmas, that this Christmas, too, many families with limited resources, for one reason or another, will have to resort to various aids, such as getting lunch from food aid lines for Christmas. And from the point of view, it is gratifying that, under the leadership of President Kankaanniemi, at the municipal and health section, all of you, together, managed to return the EUR 1.2 million subsidy to these organisations. It must be remembered that there are thousands of volunteers in Finland who share millions of food bags a year and offer hundreds of thousands of warm meals. And these must be remembered at other times than once a year. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to see any way of getting this funding for these organisations into the budget in the future, because it was not possible for STEA to put it, because we all know that. And then I would also like to invite the ministers: welcome To Korso tomorrow at 2:00 p.m., there will be a thousand people there for food and Christmas dinner, and there will always be front-row seats for ministers to talk to the people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u48	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Are you aware that poverty and inequality, which has just been discussed in Question Time, are even more common when household health expenditure is taken into account? In other words, when customer fees are deducted from people's disposable income, the proportion of the poor in the population will increase by thousands. The most people who use healthcare services and pay customer fees are the low-income and the elderly and the unemployed. For example, the poverty rate of people over 65 will increase by nearly 2 percentage points when payments are taken into account. Unfortunately, during this period, you have increased customer charges by 30%, thereby increasing people's poverty and also their enforcement. My question is: why do you not completely abolish the health centre fees? Why isn't it on this budget? It would immediately help low-income pensioners and families with unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u49	Mr President! I will only raise one point here when a concerned speech was made about what will happen to customer fees in the future. After all, the Board of Directors has already submitted a proposal for a bill on customer fees to the Parliament, and in this bill, the customer fees are largely maintained and there are no increases, but there are, for example, improved service housing coming now in addition to institutional housing, so that every resident is guaranteed the spending money that is not present in the current service housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u50	Mr President! I would like to continue for a moment with the debate on the issue of poverty in families with children during Question Time. In the Children's Voice survey published this autumn, 13 per cent of young people aged 13 to 17 who responded to the survey said that the family's financial situation made it difficult to attend school. In the same survey, half of the young people said that family wealth makes it difficult for them to engage. According to the youth barometer, 17 per cent of young people say they have had to reduce their study options due to lack of money. These are really sad figures, and I ask: what do the ministers say to these families, who have not seen the upturn in their own lives at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u51	Mr President! Indeed, there is poverty in Finland. We have a lot of child poverty, we have a lot of pensioner poverty, and I find it sad that now that the government could afford to distribute a little more money, those targets were not enough for the lowest incomes. The increase in the basic reduction in municipal tax was too small, and I would have liked to see a more substantial increase in the guarantee pension, because the measure of a good society is how it takes care of its weakest. Then I would like to raise one small positive point that has not yet come up. It has been that in future the parents of young children can also participate in municipal decision-making. The fact that meeting fees do not affect parental allowance is a great innovation, because we know that everyone's voice should be heard in decision-making there, including parents of small children. This was important and the reform that was actively pursued by the women’s network — thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u52	Mr President! The Government's budget proposal is clearly focused on pensioners, front veterans, conscripts, what is in the legislation, and also on research and development. In particular, I would like to highlight families with children whose additional resources have been identified for support, home assistance and child protection. Shelters are also of paramount importance if the family situation becomes so that it is needed, as well as the status of adoption, plural families and single parents. As regards child welfare, when it has been on the agenda a great deal in recent weeks, I would ask the Minister: is this additional resource now intended to contribute to improving the effectiveness of supervision and increasing it in the area of child protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u53	Mr President! As far as the budget is concerned, there is always a lot of debate in this section about this whole package of social security, and that is understandable. After all, the government has made rather painful savings decisions in this area and, of course, improvements. However, my own attention has to do with the future. If we ever get out of this house some kind of social security again, then the next challenge is the overall reform of social security, and compared to social security, it is an even bigger, mega-class issue. I have noted that quite a lot of parties have presented their own options as a basis for this reform work, which I hope the next government will move forward. Let me just say one thing: I hope that this work will not be repeated by the mistakes made in the social welfare reform, but that we will actually be working together parliamentaryly so that one day we can have a little bit more of this social security, and that will certainly take over more than one parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u54	Mr President! Although the government is often called, it must be admitted that it is during this government that these minimum daily allowances, the guarantee pension and the rehabilitation of young people have been considerably increased and the annual liability for pharmaceutical costs has been reduced, which is to say that there are positive things here. When I retire too, it will be nice to see how the next government corrects all these shortcomings that have been here. The veterans have also been given more, and I think they have been taken into account. And now to this Minister Saarikko's job. Throughout the autumn, we have been talking about this comprehensive family policy. I think it is a good thing that it has been said here that we should take the child and the family into account from that maternity clinic and, knowing that not all children are prepared to come into this world, that there are many families, it is good to give home help and then that the continuum continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u55	Madam President! During the years 2017 to 2018, the Lappe programme for migration has been launched with the aim of modernising child and family services and bringing them together in one of the service centres. A considerable number of these centres have already been set up. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: what kind of feedback has been received on the implementation of the change programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u56	Madam President! Question Time found that the number of low - income earners is increasing and that more and more people are being put on income support. But the Minister made it very clear that there are also services to be safeguarded, and my concern is, of course, — child protection, elderly services and others — the coercive measures taken by the municipalities in their own economy. It will continue next year because the municipalities' finances will decline by EUR 254 million next year, and it is not appropriate that services can be improved or increased once the municipalities' money is reduced. The second question relates to the fact that I asked the chairman of the committee: Not for sale, and I am pleased to hear that it is being dealt with. I have now promised to ask this question: how, then, do the government parties feel about taking away the purchase law completely from these lifelong services for people with disabilities and others, for example, in housing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u57	Madam President! I, too, would like to start by wishing the ministers a merry Christmas. You have been working hard all year and you have been very busy, and the decisions have certainly not always been pleasant in all respects. First of all, I would like to thank you for raising the minimum daily allowance. This is a very important issue, but of course it must be regretted in the same breath that during this booming season, the index freezes of basic security will not be repaired and removed. I hope that tomorrow's vote will change. Then we must thank Minister Saarikko for the fact that more funds have been allocated to the financing of shelters, but we are still a long way from the level of the Istanbul agreement. I would therefore like us to have enough will in the Finnish Parliament that this too will be corrected as soon as possible, if not next year, but in the coming years. Child welfare talks, and it is very important that children's protection and preventive services are directed towards those important resources so that no child has to suffer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u58	Madam President! In front of the whole Finnish people, I would like to thank you now in public that the extra money for the food aid of the low-income associations came back to this. It's just a great Christmas present for them. Thank you especially to the representatives of Mr Kalli, Mrs Raassina, Mr Rossi and Mr Kaikkonen, whom I spoke with. I know they took this to heart, and now it's all right. I would like to ask now, when the STEA rules prohibit that these bread-sharing associations cannot be directly helped, would it not now be easier to re-examine these STEA rules, because they say, however, that activities must be linked to social work and that subsidies are intended for social work that complements the municipality? Would it not be the simplest thing to simply change the STEA rules so that these associations and other associations can apply for this money there? Or another way would be, as has already been said here,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u59	Three replies will be made at this stage, then the Ministers’ answer, and then the debate will resume that it is all right. Representatives Rossi, Pelkonen and Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u60	Madam President! As a member of the municipal and health section of the Committee on Finance, as responsible for the centre, I would first like to thank the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the ministers for the fact that, by way of exception, many of the additions made by our section and the Committee on Finance last year have been included in the budget. This is, in a certain way, a fine and forward-looking issue. Not only did the government groups then make decisions on some of the items within Parliament's allocation, but we wanted to look for those pain spots, those where the most good things can then be done again. These include the development of national health quality registers, the preparation of the Good Practice Recommendation for Fatigue Syndrome and then this food aid — an important question: 1.2 million now through the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This is an important issue. There are many other things here: state research funding, on which I would like to ask the ministers: how will this be done in the future in the context of the social and regional reform? Mr President! Finally, support for veterans. It will be a good thing in history for next year and for this period of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u61	Madam President! As has been heard and said here, it is positive that the funding of shelters has increased by 70% over the current period. Thank you for this. This is a good, yet inadequate trend. In addition to shelters, we need to have more support services, low-threshold drop centres and rape crisis centres. Of course, it would be best if we did not have to constantly deal with the consequences, but that our attitude culture would change towards a non-violent and safe family model. Unfortunately, the attitude to subjugation is still strong in our country. One woman in three has experienced violence in Finland from her partner, and it is estimated that nearly 60,000 women experience sexual violence every year. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no simple and easy answer to this, let alone a solution, but how can we ensure that our country is not known for its family killings and ill-treatment statistics around the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u62	Mr President! I was a little surprised when there were a few speeches saying that in this budget there was some sort of investment in pensioners. It does sound a little alienation from everyday life, because at least when I talk a lot with pensioners, they have a great deal of concern about the fact that all payments are going up and now this government is cutting pensions for the fourth time. Last Wednesday we voted on it again and the indices were frozen. It wasn't fair. It wasn't right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u67	There will be three more people who have not yet received the floor this evening, namely the salmon, Mr Jalonen and Mr Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u68	Mr President! When we have talked about these freezings of indexes, it must be said that if I were to choose whether to give 50 cents or an extra euro to all benefits, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u71	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank the government parties as a member of the municipal and health section and why not the other section staff. There were important specific measures, such as this mentioned food aid. However, we have been talking here about this index freeze. That is what the decision really is that these subsidies do not rise. It is true that the total amount at national level is larger than the total amount of precision measures at national level which, however, are personally supported by ten times the amount of index freezing. So I would ask the Minister: how do you think this is a targeted measure, which will help the very low incomes, more impressive than index freezing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u72	Then again, Mr Semi, and then you go to the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u73	Madam President! When you think about the value of social policy, we have had these index freezes on benefits and pensions, and then on the other hand tax reliefs have been given to those who have favoured high incomes. Here is this sort of conflict of values, which shows that in Finland now the poor are not necessarily doing well anymore. However, I would like to thank the government for giving more money to aid organisations, to food aid. That is a good thing, and it is a great thank you, but it comes to such a conclusion and a world of thought, which I would like to ask the ministers: can Finland no longer be regarded as a welfare state when poverty increases, food queues increase and inequality increases — is this such a policy of the welfare state anymore?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u74	Then let's go to the ministers' answers. Minister Mattila, 5 minutes, and Minister Saarikko, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u75	Madam President! Firstly, the section president raised the issue of Kela's operating expenses and concerns about them, and I share the same concern. It is extremely important that Kela's operating expenses, resources, are monitored. Well, then the question came as to the cost of the active model and the amendment of the Unemployment Security Act in that respect. And in that government proposal, the situation has been assessed from very many points of view as to how much employment will be employed, how it will affect the operating expenses of Kela in particular. They're there on the basis of a government proposal. Then, on a large number of issues, the issue of index freezing, including the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Kiuru, has been raised. I have never claimed or said anything other than that this was just a painful government decision that has been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u78	And then the reply, Minister Saarikko, five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u79	Mr President! I recognized 16 different themes of your questions and I'm going to deal with everyone I've ever had time to deal with. I would like to start with Mrs Sem's assessment that Finland is a welfare state. It is, to the greatest extent, but it will not stand unless we were encouraged to reform it. And yes, we need to see that there are polarising problems, problems that accumulate in the same population groups, and that requires a change in the way it is – not necessarily more money, but a change in the culture of activity in services. That is why we have focused, among other things, on the change in services for older people, on family and family care issues, on home care or on family services with children, which have been widely ignored here. Taking children into account in adult mental health services and mental health legislation sections. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, I trust it, although I am sure it was at least as annoyed as you, that the law will be better if we give it some space to prepare it better. But it is not enough that we have new articles, but that we need a change in the service strategy because of the themes you have just mentioned, for example, that the services take the family into account as a whole. That's why I've launched a mental health strategy that goes back to 2030. It accommodates several government seasons, and each government can choose a special theme within mental health issues. I myself have started this work by convening a very expert and good debate on mental health issues for children and young people, and I find, among other things, that the biggest problem for us is that basic services do not provide enough support for small problems and the mildest, for example, for young people with depressive symptoms, but that we need urgent services for special care because the gap is too big. There are already interventions in the field, and we can easily spread them. Good work has been done in areas such as HUS and Espoo. I am not hopeless about this, but we also need stronger national guidance through this strategy. The representatives of Sarkomaa and Rossi raised the importance of state research funding, the former Evo money, and this entity also played a role in the regional and social reform. This will be part of the overall funding of the provinces, it will remain at present, and I believe that this strong political debate and concern about the importance of this will have a bearing on the fact that in the future no one will have the nerve to turn this direction beyond what the government has now been able to do, that is to say, the level has been raised. But the big question is, and it also requires cooperation between regions in practice, that the research money should be allocated sensibly. One part is the study on nursing, which has been consolidated, as Mr Sarkomaa said. Representative Puska considered extensively the national role of the National Institute for Health and Welfare. As an institution, it is an important institution, with confidence and success in its work, which we must uphold as well as it has been able to support, for example, in that Luoto, the national issue over vaccinations. At the same time, the role of THL will change significantly as a result of the social welfare reform, as THL will have a strong role in supporting national governance and the support of regional information management will be its core tasks. Dr. Kiljunen asked about the medical helicopters. We can have a wider debate on this in private, because I would like to explain this to you carefully, but the ministry official has also made comments on the way in which the official's presentation finally went evenly in comparison with Lappeenranta and Kouvola. Personally, I would like to point out that today the government has made a big decision to extend, in the name of equality, the bases in Finland from six to eight — South-East Finland and Ostrobothnia are covered by the services — in the most demanding special care tasks. At the moment, one quarter of the population is outside of them. The point is that in South-East Finland almost as a whole we will be able to cover the needs of the population with this decision, when the company arrangements were also amended in the same context. The national vaccine programme has spoken, and my assessment is very similar to that of Mr Raassina, who says that we need constant action to extend this programme. I would personally like to see HPV vaccine for boys, for example, end up in the program. This government took a decision to extend the varicella programme, now the influenza vaccine, and I will take up your suggestion with regard to the vaccine programme that it also includes a confirmation of the vaccine pro-humanity of the staff. As far as I am aware, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has decisions relating to staff critical to the new Act on communicable diseases and their obligation to take vaccines as part of their duties. As far as customer fees are concerned, to which more than one representative asked, the proposal is in Parliament, and in principle it also clarifies the position of people on low incomes. It strengthens the entitlement to a payment allowance and exemption and obliges the provinces to collect customer fees only on matters that are stated in the law. The role of grandparents was an interesting reflection from Mrs Paloniemi. I'll stay and think about it more carefully. Representative Laiho, child protection funding is specifically directed at monitoring, improving supervisory tasks in regional government agencies and, as it were, supporting these new legal articles that are here. Representative Räsänen was concerned about the social reform. Me too. It is therefore worth accepting now the social reform that there is actually room and time to concentrate on that big reform work. And Mr. Paatero, you inquired. Not for sale - the citizens' initiative and the government's position on it. I have considered this very seriously, and the citizens' initiatives are in the hands of Parliament, but in my own opinion I think it would be terribly difficult to make a delimitation, which groups would be excluded from the procurement law: why should substance abusers be more subject to the procurement law than disabled persons, why should mental health rehabilitation be more than disabled people, and the corresponding restriction? On the other hand, we have all the means available to us now in the form of direct procurement in the future of freedom of choice through a personal budget, but because this issue is difficult and work is not being done on the ground, as we would like in this Chamber, the government has allocated EUR 300000 together with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the Ministry of Employment and the Disabled to a wide-ranging field round that supports the better use of existing legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u80	And it looks like we're back on. I'll ask you to press the V button and stand up. — Let us begin, Mr Kiuru, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u81	Mr President! I think that this debate, which has taken place, shows how much sustainability gap we actually have in terms of human sustainability deficits, and that will certainly challenge you, Ministers, every day in your work, both in terms of benefits and their level of benefits as well as in terms of services. And when I also promised Saarikko a question, I would ask you, Minister: do you wonder, for example, how important the children's welfare law will, in time, hopefully be discussed in this Chamber and also the law that people with disabilities will have a little better things to do? They are important things that are inside the house — unfortunately, this whole now does not include mental health issues, for well-known reasons, as we know. Finally, I should like to take part in this debate on index freezing. It was claimed here that it was not an operation. When the index is frozen, it will be cut. In practice, this means that for these indices 2019 will return to the 2016 level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u84	Madam President! I'm gonna go back to the domestic violence theme for a while. As has been said, women face the second most violence in Finland from all EU countries, and that is a very painful and deep-rooted problem. It is really great that the funding of shelters has increased significantly during this term of government and, as a result, the number of shelters. But we need resources, in particular, to work on violence, to help victims of violence and to prevent violence, and we need to instill good practices and to continue training workers on the issue of violence in close relationships. Domestic violence is so common that every child health clinic employee or social worker should have a very low threshold to ask if you need to be afraid in your relationship. Mr Saarikko, the issue of the family centre is important to you and you are well aware of it. How do you see whether it could be a new normal strategy for services, that these domestic violence issues, too, through family centre activities, would be better covered by prevention than they are at present? It would also mean that there would not be such a shortage of shelters and shelters in the future when these issues were preventive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u85	Mr President! Once again, I would like to raise this one point here, namely the tripartite equal pay programme. It is stated here that it will continue in cooperation with the social partners. Mr Marianvaara made a report on this pay transparency in October, and Minister Saarikko, at that time you said that you would call for a tripartite working party of this kind to examine how this pay opening can then be continued by means of legislation – of course, part of it is on a job-by-job basis and part of it is then between the social partners. What's going on with this team? I believe that we would need new provisions for the next government programme in order to make real progress on this equal pay in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u86	Madam President! Indeed, yesterday a statistics by THL showed that poverty among families with children in Finland has indeed increased during the time of the sitting government and that income inequality has also started to grow. As such, this news did not surprise us who are sitting on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because we have seen and heard how experts have criticised index cuts carried out by the government, precisely because they repeatedly hit the same poor people, the same groups of people. This is a key reason why poverty in Finland has really started to grow again and the situation of families with children is particularly alarming. I would now have asked the honourable ministers: do you regret that you have not carried out any impact assessments this season? Indeed, these cuts affect the same groups of people and thus make it particularly difficult for those with high suffering, the elderly, and poor families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u87	Mr President! These index freezes are indeed a large sum in the case of central government finances, but a relatively small sum for the beneficiary itself and at least a relatively small sum in relation to what the matched ones will be able to help this low-income needer. I repeat the question of the ceiling, so what happened to it? Many raised these payments here. As a professional in the field, I'd like to bring up the emergency care and the medical helicopter. The helicopter's range is the circle around the station. If it's next to the border, then it's half the range off, so it's good to put it in the middle of the continent. Medical cars are a good example. Is there similar support available? And patient transplants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u88	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about children and families, about young people, quite rightly. I will now return to this subject, which has already been addressed a little bit, the mental health problems of young people, their treatment, prevention. For many young people, why not, of course, even older ones, exclusion is a serious threat and a problem and is often linked to depression and mental health problems. Of course, these problems will only get worse if they are not corrected in time. Organisations also play a major role in improving mental health work if they are provided with adequate conditions for their activities and are much easier for many young people to approach and, of course, can help young people with other problems. The Finns Party urges the government to draw up a programme or strategy on mental health services for children and young people, which also gives the third sector a much more important role than is currently the case. How do you respond to this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u89	Madam President! Last summer, for example, those close to the Christian Democrats were collecting names for the People's Initiative to obtain a High Commissioner for the Elderly, and here quite a few groups found support for it and there were various legislative and legislative initiatives and budget increases in this budget. Now here the section of the committee has allocated an appropriation to the Ombudsman’s office — precisely with the idea of what had been attached to this Ombudsman for the elderly — that the Ombudsman’s office would then, with the same idea, go on dealing with questions relating to the elderly in particular. I would have liked to ask the minister: How, then, has the Ombudsman's Office been instructed in this matter that this independent supervision and lobbying of the elderly, and this, could it be said, can it be done by the Ombudsman? What to do about guidance
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u90	Mr President! I was thinking of bringing up a theme that has not been discussed here, namely the birth rate, and therefore a small background of statistics: In 2000, around 57,000 children were born in Finland. After that, for 10 years, the birth rate increased on average by about 500 per year, and in 2010, when 61,000 children were born, last year was nippa 50,000 and this year less than 50,000. And of these born children, there are 6,600 born to first generation immigrant mothers. My question to the Minister is: has the ministry considered how the causes of this fall in birth rates would be considered and whether there would be some ways in which future parents would believe in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u91	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, I would like to have a discussion with you on the location and location of the medical helicopter. And, as you yourself said, some of the inhabitants of South-East Finland are now in a weaker position, because the zone that has been raised here today does not cover all of South-East Finland, and it is precisely in the case of the waters and other regions of South Karelia that it is undermining. Mr President! I would have asked Minister Mattila when I know that you are familiar with the benefit of coeliac disease and the related questions: now that the government has cut the dietary allowance for celiac disease and at present people with celiac disease are not receiving any support from society, even though it is an autoimmune disease — such as rheumatism and ms disease — I would ask you: is there any way that you can now feel this situation better if you would reinitiate the reimbursement of celiac disease?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u92	Madam President! For many Finns, it is certainly amazing to know that not all public health service providers systematically monitor the quality of services. We do not have national quality registers, unlike those in Great Britain and Sweden. For some reason, these measures have not been taken in Finland. We have hospital-specific registers and a few national registers. Now, according to Parliament's mandate, additional parliamentary money, THL has started piloting national quality registers, six quality registers are being piloted. Money was also added to this budget for next year to allow piloting to continue, and the intention is to create a presentation on how we would get the national quality registers, how they would be organised and how they would be funded. I would like to ask the Minister responsible, Minister Saariko, who is responsible for the social reform: what kind of measures has the government proposed to give us comparative information? Very different sized, bearable provinces — it is important that we compare them. Diabetes causes 15% of healthcare costs. We can't compare diabetes treatment. Sweden has a quality diabetes registry and a better metabolic control has been achieved. Britain Rewards for Reconciliation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u93	Madam President! Even the opposition should note that Statistics Finland’s low income statistics have positive news that the poverty rate of single-parent families has fallen. It's not all bad, it's just great. But my question is child-related. It is estimated that in Finland one in four underage children live in a family where a parent has a mental health or substance abuse problem requiring treatment, and these children are often left alone because of the stigma associated with mental health and substance abuse problems. Special attention must be paid to supporting children's families. It is far from always about money or lack of money. Mental health organizations state that we should all identify, recognise and support child-related and young carers whose parents are mentally ill. There is a need for adequate and timely support for families in order to address the issue of children's families. Can we invest in this and identify these problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u94	Madam President! We will certainly receive feedback from citizens who are not getting enough help for their serious illness at all times. After all, we have a lot of indoor-air sick people in society, for example, there is thyroid disease, and then, as a whole new group of diseases, I have become this ME/CFS, a category known as chronic fatigue syndrome. ME/CFS is a serious physical illness that is completely disabled in many cases and is estimated by Duodecim to be at least 10,000 patients in Finland, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you to Parliament for bringing about its EUR 200,000 here to examine this type of disease and to classify it, for example, for the Health Care Recommendation. Now I would like to ask worthy ministers: can you guarantee that all patients in Finland will receive — even if they do not know the disease —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u95	Madam President! In connection with last year's budget debate, Parliament added an appropriation to the national suicide prevention programme. I would like to ask: what stage is the preparation of that programme? Mr President! Then perhaps more as a contribution to the state’s research funding issue, i.e. the former special state contribution to Evo funding, the current VTR funding. It is true that when, with the reform of the province and the social welfare system, the decision-making power in these matters is transferred to the provinces, at least I get a certain feeling of disquiet in the fact that, if there is a local health centre or research funding going on in one of the regions, it is going to go either way in the decision-making process. In practice, then, we should create a system which, however, will secure and ensure this university-level research in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u96	Mr President! The freezing of the index represents a cut of EUR 68 million in expenditure. So it is not a question of a reorganisation of activities which has generated savings, but of benefits which are less than EUR 68 million now as a result. I am sorry, Minister Mattila, but with good will I did not hear from you any social policy guidelines on the freezing of indexes. No matter how hard I try. The mere need to save is no excuse for a motion — not in a time of economic upturn when inequality is increasing. And it is precisely because of this kind of freezing that it grows even more. It's not one freeze. It's a build-up. The freezes will also remain alive in the future. It must also be understood that the inflation rate of the poor is still higher than the overall inflation rate. It targets products, such as rents, where it is faster. Would you mind, please?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u97	Madam President! This issue of index freezing is, of course, important, and it needs to be discussed. The Social Democrats understand that you have in your alternative budget that these freezes would not be made, but as far as the Finns of Peru are concerned, I wonder what recent criticisms have come about here because they do not have these index freezes cancelled in the alternative budget. It's not there. Then an important issue has been raised here: food aid, with a one-off subsidy of EUR 1.2 million. I remember when this kind of one-off support was not decided by Parliament last year or by government groups. There was a lot of encouraging criticism, if that's what you can say. Yes, I must say that this time, when this one-off decision is taken, we must also give the majority of the government groups credit for it, if the last time those criticisms came in our direction. This is where Mr Mikkonen said that it would not be enough to be done for guaranteed pensioners. More than EUR 44 per month guaranteed pensions have been increased, which is almost EUR 18 more than if it had been increased through indices, which of course has not been done, but has gone through these increases. So we have taken care of the low-income pensioners — and also this food aid, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u98	Mr President! The Disability Services Act has been passed, and it has also been here in the referral debate. There is a lot of good in it as such, but it is very strongly linked to the fact that the regional reform will come. I'd like to ask you: What if the regional reform does not come? Is it then possible to change the articles of the law in those places where there are references to the provinces, so that we can get that very good law in itself — and not that it is married to the provinces? The second point that I would like to raise is the violence that has already been mentioned here. It is indeed a very big problem and a shame in Finland. It feels like it's the kind of thing that we've accepted that there's nothing we can do about it. It is good that the network of shelters has been strengthened, but we are still far from what it should be. Is it possible that this issue could be taken as a major common challenge? We'd make such a good show how we're going to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u99	Madam President! There have been criticisms of index freezes, and they are unfortunate. And perhaps as a reminder to the opposition: you know why they are being made — because the state budget situation has been so poor — because you yourself made freezes on the 2014 budget, for example. Mr President! However, I would have liked to ask a few questions about the debate in order to continue what happened during Question Time, when, indeed, these minimum benefits, the lowest sickness, maternity, paternity, parental allowances were increased, the increase that was not made by the previous opposition when you increased labour market benefits by EUR 100, which was an important issue, but why in the world were these minimum benefits excluded from the increase? How would the ministers comment on this increase in minimum benefits, which is now close to EUR 100, combined with three increases in the guarantee pension, almost EUR 20: how have they contributed not only to reducing pension poverty but also to reducing poverty in general?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u100	Mr President! This index debate has been such a mess that, in fact, these freezes affect the fact that, after freezing next year, that level of benefit will in practice be at the level of 2016. And wisdom is to look back too. It is now a debate on whether to freeze the level of basic security, which has also been attempted for years. It's still too low. Last season, 120 euros was raised, and there's still work to be done. And here, too, there are good benefits increases in this budget, unfortunately only on the guarantee pension, this freeze of indexes eats up its good deed, and in that respect this is unfortunate. But, Mr President, it is also good to thank and emphasise that there are many heroes present in this debate. Parliament has done a huge job on the veterans' issue since last year's debate in the section. This year we will put rehabilitation services in order and make this harmonisation of veterans
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u102	Madam President! I watched the chairman, Mr Rinnetta, at some SDP press conference yesterday or the day before, where the pensioners were promised nine good and ten beautiful things. It has already become known that President Rinte's May Day speech, in which he promised pensioners, the lowest-income pensioners, a hundred dollars a month. Well, today's Question Time and other things, it has been discovered that the SDP promises families with children not only to stop having an index cut or to stop having an index freeze, but also to increase money for families with children. Furthermore, the SDP here has in many circumstances called for the cancellation of several of the most important savings. And it may be the season, but these SDP talks remind me of Santa — and Santa Claus is not true, but the SDP promises are not true either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u103	Mr President! I am sure that in next spring and in the following years there will be a lot of talk in Parliament about the situation of the elderly, not only about pension poverty, but also about services. The services of the elderly have not improved as they should, although I know that this is one of the heart issues of Minister Saarikko. One reason for this is that the old-age service law is not being complied with at the moment, and we have been able to read, for example, how people are being circumvented, for example, by marking ghost nurses on their duty roster. Oversight of day-to-day care is not working, as the supervisory resources of regional government authorities are far too poor. Self-monitoring is not a sufficient control mechanism, because it seems that in too many places on paper in the self-monitoring plan things seem to be in order, but the reality is something else. And I ask Minister Saariko: what can we do about this? And I would also like you to be able to
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u104	Mr President! When Mr Antti Rinne, the chairman of the SDP, brought this idea to the attention of the pensioner about 100, there were no conditions attached to it as such. It was just that a hundred dollars net has to come to pensioners, less than $1,400 to earn a month. Since we've been asking a few more questions, there's been a strange start on those terms. The first thing was that, in fact, it is EUR 30 to begin with, and then it became that well, in fact, if the state finances allowed it, and so on. It should be noted from this that,if it is said that ‘if the State’s finances are being controlled,we know that the State’s finances will not be allowed. So the socialist hundred has shrunk to 30 euros, if that's the case. In this regard, Mr Kiuru raised the issue of the guarantee pension that this index freeze is eating it. Of course, you are right to eat up to a certain limit, but with these increases in the level, the guarantee pensioner will receive EUR 18 more than he would if the level increases were not made and went only through index increases. You have to look at what's left of your hand. It's essential to the blues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u105	Madam President! Yes, this same play will be seen at the end of each parliamentary term when all parties start fishing for the votes of pensioners, and social democrats if some are quite skilled in this. You always have these presentations before the election. When I looked at your electoral programs from behind the four elections, they had before every election promised the pensioners countries and the heavens, and then the truth has been different. Neither does the present government get away with it, but they have not hidden it. Mr President! In fact, Mr Elon’s comment was to be answered by the fact that it is wonderful that Parliament responded to this cry when there are many poor people on the street waiting for their food bag this Christmas. Next year, the organisations were allocated EUR 1.2 million, and it is a very good gesture — not just a gesture, but a fact that we must recognise that the poor are always among us. They're not going to lose anywhere in this country. Such a good standard of living will never be born. But now we have to remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u106	Let's just stay a minute, even though there's so much to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u107	Mr President! We must respond to these charges against the SDP. You're accusing the real tree of wanting to put things in order for a low-income pensioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u110	Madam President! First of all, I can say to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen that the supervision of care institutions for the elderly, the elderly, will be considerably enhanced by the fact that the government parties or Parliament decided to strengthen the resources of the Ombudsman's Office for this very purpose, so that it will be more effective and, of course, that there will also be corrections. This is the idea put forward by President Risiko, which Parliament has now taken up, and it will be given more resources. As far as Mr Kiuru's speech is concerned, I do remember two of Mr Rinne's May Day speeches. In the first, he called for the resignation of the present government, a government that has created more than 100,000 new jobs. The next May Day no longer demanded it, but promised the pensioners a hundred dollars in hand. A little thought came to mind for the student movement’s old ton, drunk-out campaign, but it was a markka time. Mr Kiuru, you say that you will put things in order for pensioners with low incomes. I'm putting my head on the line that even if you're on the next board, things won't work out for low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u111	Madam President! It is very boring to change the subject of this heated debate on election fishing, because prevention will never get to the headlines, but prevention is the work that we should do more to afford the necessary things in society: elderly services, improved basic security, and, above all, the funding of social and health care. Some 130,000 people suffer from memory disorders. We have excellent programmes for the prevention of other national diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and musculo-skeletal diseases. In a way, memory disorders do not yet have this status. We know that our ageing nation will suffer more and more from memory disorders in the years to come. How do you see in the Ministry whether memory disorders should be better recognised and taken into account in preventive health care? In the future, it'll be easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u112	Mr President! Statistics Finland published the real income change statistics two days ago over the last couple of years. This is cold and harsh reading. The income level of the most high-income decile rose by 4.4 per cent in real terms and the income of the four lowest-income decile by 1.2 per cent. This is shocking. Thus, income differentials have grown strongly in recent times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u115	Madam President! I am surprised at what the Social Democrats have said. There must be some sense in how people are spoken to and what is promised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u120	Madam President! In my opinion, this debate is beginning to be a bit of a debate that I do not wish we would be discussing in this way. First of all, last season, the Social Democrats led the reform of the Act on Elderly Services, and it was one of the biggest legislative reforms in the last period. Then there was the talk of supervision and the establishment of an ombudsman for the elderly. In his own speech, Mr Essayah asked the Minister that, now that this additional resources have been allocated to the Ombudsman's Office, which is a very good thing, how is this additional resource managed precisely in such a way as to improve the supervision of the elderly? [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u121	Madam President! Let's change the subject a little bit. — I would like to ask the ministers about child welfare. It is stated here that, despite this, the number of clients in child protection per employee is increasing and, in particular, the number of urgent investments has increased. I have received several communications during the autumn that have told me that parents have sought help from child welfare and then, when child welfare has responded to this assistance, it has been that the child has been taken into urgent care even though the parents have applied for support in their own situation. I would like to ask: should this guidance now be reviewed so as not to make unnecessary investments when parents seek help, so that they do not have a child taken away from them?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u122	Madam President! A large and smaller family is something that brings joy in everyday life but also requires strength and endurance. The ability of parents to cope is also directly reflected in the well-being of children and must therefore be supported. In the past, families had the opportunity to get help in everyday life from many skilled householders who came home, made food, washed laundry, cleaned and cared for children. The parents then got the necessary breathing break into their daily lives. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Responsibility: how does the budget reflect support for families with children that contribute to family survival and prevent fatigue in everyday life?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u124	Madam President! In response to Mr Risiko's proposal, we in the Committee on Finance brought forward this model, which allocates a significant amount of additional money to the Ombudsman's Office for the control of these elderly matters and makes it a special task there. We came to the conclusion that it is even more impressive than having one person in charge of this task, that is to say it will be a special task there. I would also like to ask the ministers for their opinion on this: do you believe that this is the way in which we can manage the elderly's affairs well? Then this veteran front supplement, on which we reached a good agreement among the government parties. When it comes to just a few tens of thousands of euros to make that correction early in the year, I would ask Minister Mattila: how quickly will this change in the law be brought to Parliament, and how quickly will it be brought into everyday life, so that the veterans will also receive this small correction, which is absolutely theirs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u125	And now for the ministers to respond. Three minutes for both ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u126	Madam President! First of all, these bread lines are discussed here, and thank you, Mr Laukkanen, for the warm, good speech that exclaimed the love of neighbor. This amendment to the STEA regulations is a good proposal to investigate, and that is all I can promise. The bread lines have remained for decades, apparently from the late '90s depression to this day. They may not be part of the welfare state, but on the other hand, I would like to say that I greatly appreciate the work that the citizens of Europe are doing in line for bread. Then, in that last round, Mr Elo failed to answer about this Lex Lindström 2. I think that is justified. I expect better from the work capacity programme, which will be in the future, and at the same time I would like to thank you for this key project that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has had for those who are able to work. Their employment has also improved significantly. Mr Jalonen then raised this ceiling — I assume he meant the ceiling on medical fees. The situation here is that it is precisely on the basis of index freezing that it has fallen and therefore it has not been a cut since then, but the government has also actively wanted to lower this cap on pharmaceutical fees by around EUR 40 in the coming year. Mr Kiljunen, thank you for the discussions we have had, there has been a good debate on coeliac disease, celiac disease, celiac disease compensation or surgery. When parties are also preparing for the upcoming spring elections, this is a good initiative for discussion. In itself, it may not be very complicated legislative work on this basis if it is returned, but it will be in the future. Congressman Kankaanniemi, you raised these income differences. However, I agree with what the Prime Minister said during the last Question Time, who said that the income gap in Finland has not, however, broken down. Helping citizens out of unemployment is also valuable. If you look at the poverty of families with children, for example, and then the parents, who have children of course, get a job, I think it is the abolition of family poverty with children. But I'm sure there's work to be done. Then this issue of index freezing continues to arise and what it is in social policy or what the debate on social policy in Finland is. Yes, I am defending the specific measures that this government has taken. And I also think, Mr Salonen, that social security is part of the steering wheel of the economy, and these choices, in particular, are going to eliminate the shortcomings that have been experienced, for example, in these periods of ownership, and can be used precisely to help people. And yet there was that basic element of income support. That is not indexed to the fact that there is no misconception that all these social benefits are in the process of index freezing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u127	Mr President! A few comments on the wide range of topics. The violence in the neighbourhood was on several of the representatives' questions. From the previous round, I would like to say to Mr Pelkonen, and perhaps to inform others at the same time, that as part of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, to which we are now firmly committed in a national context and in a wonderful way to which I think we are now committed, we have also started to develop such so-called Seri action centres, such as large service centres for victims of sexual crimes, where Helsinki is showing the way, and those in other major cities are coming. I think this is very important, and at its best — or worst — then, of course, it will also lead to criminal proceedings, because there has been a clear crime. The support centre was set up last year. I also think it is important for Mr Heikkinen's perspective on how this topic would be more transparent in the maternity clinic services, and I would like to say that the focus of this government for the rest of the term on this important and serious issue is on cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. The police see a lot of bad things about this subject, but in terms of the means to tackle it collectively with social services, we need more knowledge and cooperation and the dissemination of operating models. And there is also this conciliation work that I have mentioned and whether we can be sure that, in the event of violence in close relationships, mediation is actually a sensible procedure. My own view, Mr President, is that this is not necessarily the case. This is now being investigated. Then, Mr Laitinen-Pesola, I would like to say that you are repeatedly and often with dignity presenting this theme of equal pay and equal pay. Indeed, Mr Marienvaara has made a report on this, and I promised that it would start a tripartite process. It makes no sense to promote it if the social partners are not involved, because they are also largely dependent on it and on the everyday practices of jobs. In this respect, the requests for the appointment of the working group have gone to various partners and the social partners, and the work will start early in the year. Its aim is also to support the work of the next government. Mr Savio rightly raised the issue of mental health services and organisations. I think very much as you do in your question. It should be possible to direct basic services, including from the first doctor's office, to the services of organisations much more than they are now. Now they are used to some extent to rehabilitate, but they could also be low-threshold services, go past the service system much better than what is happening today. Mr Keränen's reflection on the birth rate was excellent and is also linked to the basis of this strategy for children, which is one part of it. We need prospects of hope, not just talk about the sustainability gap that small children cause us in the state economy — childhood as a truly self-worth and families at the heart of society. Mr Sarkomaa, you have highlighted the quality registers for which I know you have worked for a long time. If they're in the middle of a war, they could have a bigger place. This is now a good pilot, starting with these. At the moment, this has been the responsibility of organisations alone, such as the monitoring of kidney diseases. We are very interested in waiting for this, and it is good to now assess the work that has been done with Parliament's money. This is far too small in the health culture in Finland. And then, Mr Rossi, you asked about last year's decision on this situation in the suicide prevention programme. It's being implemented, but it's part of a bigger mental health strategy. We came to the conclusion that the fact that we are treating the extreme symptom is not enough; we also have to deal with root causes, which is why we need a bigger mental health strategy. This is part of the job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u128	We have had a debate for almost two hours, but let us take one question per group of replies and then go to the list of speakers. Let's start here on the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u129	Mr President! It is absolutely necessary to return to this care for the elderly, and now I must say to Mrs Zyskowicz that there is still a need for supervision even after the Ombudsman. There it is about the top of the mountain, and now we need to find resources for that larger part of the mountain, and those resources can be found in the Regional State Administrative Agencies at the moment. But those resources are far too small, and there is a constant problem that they can only address the most flagrant details, because they simply do not have the resources. We know that these ghost nurses do not treat anyone, but they exist there and they are a real problem. That is why I am still calling for a resource in the open, because that is where the controls are being carried out, in the regions. Avit, too, is often quite far away. There should be even more opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u130	Madam President! A few moments ago, there was a debate about the Commissioner for the Elderly or about the appropriations. My own view is that it is not enough for the Ombudsman, with his left hand, to deal with matters relating to the questions of the elderly. The issues, opportunities, challenges, needs of the elderly in this society are so great and growing that we really need a Commissioner for the Elderly. Not just the post office, where the shortcomings are addressed, but the person who rises above the policy of the day to bring vision, development needs, to bring together forces, to create a better policy for the elderly, a better future for the elderly. That is why I do not support the idea of the Ombudsman doing this work as a side action. The time has come for the High Commissioner for Senior Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u131	Madam President! That idea, first put forward by President Risikko, that the Ombudsman's resources should be strengthened, was the fastest and most effective way of strengthening the enforcement of the rights of the elderly. Even now, the Ombudsman is doing the work as the Parliament is doing. It is excellent, and we will remain vigilant, we will be able to do so, and we will be able to do so. For example, the Child Counsellor can only speak but cannot intervene. This weighing must be done. I myself have spoken on behalf of the Ombudsman for the elderly, but I would like to say that now that we are looking at these various delegates, the role of the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, I think it is wise that the Office of the Ombudsman for Children should be transferred from Jyväskylä to Helsinki, and this should be the case. This would allow the administrative resource to be used sensibly and also to see how independence and cooperation are ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u132	Mr President! Congressman Kankaanniemi, you know how to look at statistics. When you look at the statistics on income differentials, look for more than one year. There has been little difference during these years, although the economic situation has changed, employment has changed. Also, if you look at the European level, our income differentials are very small, and we can all be pleased about that. It is one of the factors that has always stabilized our society. Mr Social Democrats, you are very critical of what the government is doing. I also reserve the right to look critically at your proposals, and if you look at what you have made during this period, I raised your pension promise. In addition, you have promised to cancel the training cuts and the active model, to dismantle all the index freezes, to rob Sitra's cashier, to return the holiday money, to manage maintenance, to increase climate finance, to cancel the reduction in car tax, to correct regional policy, to activate European policy and to close the NATO door on the market. If you really believe in all of this, then, in honor of Christmas, you should believe in Santa Claus. I'm sure you'd both get as many presents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u133	Madam President! There have already been a number of Members who have re-emphasised the office of Ombudsman for the elderly and, hopefully, only transitional care in the Ombudsman's Office, and I would like the Minister to say a little about the way in which this guidance has now been considered, how this special money is being used, what is being allocated to it by the will of the Parliament. However, I would have asked about a few legislative projects which are known to be ready, but for some reason they have not been brought to Parliament and will not be imported: One of these is biobank legislation, and this has raised a few questions, because Finland would have a role to play in these matters, even at European level, and this legislation is being followed up a little elsewhere that where Finland is going. Is there any particular reason why this legislation has not been brought here? I understand that this is not, for example, legislation relating to social welfare and regional government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u134	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I would have asked you about the role of regional hospitals: It has now been stipulated that regional hospitals must not perform anesthetic surgery, and this has caused long queues since central hospitals and, at the same time, also put patient safety at risk. Will there be changes to this regulation, and what will be done about this 30-minute distance requirement?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u135	Mr President! To Mr Elo, I would say that, in your time in the last few years, real income differentials have started to increase dramatically. As I told you, 4.4 per cent rose the income of the biggest tithe, while in the four smallest revenue deciles only 1.2 per cent, and in euros there is a huge difference in this growth. Fortunately, there is growth for everyone, but it is certainly not evenly targeted. President! In the section, we dealt with the situation and the place of the various delegates, children's affairs and other delegates, which are, in fact, formally part of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. My performance was that they would be assembled into a legal safe house like this. Minister Häkkänen took a very positive view, and a note came in that this would be clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u136	Then there are the short answers. Minister Mattila, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u137	Madam President! I recognised from this debate the increase in the income differentials raised by Mr Kankaanniemi, and no one in this Chamber is sure to dispute this concern, and it is therefore common. But it has to be said that we have been living in a recession for a long time, since 2008, when the recession started there on Wall Street, but nevertheless The Nordic countries have the lowest income differentials in the OECD countries and also in comparison with many other countries, and that is what we must ensure that they remain at that low level. This economic growth has not yet been able to tackle properly what employment growth means in terms of income differentials. On the other hand, on the other hand, as I said, I am defending these targeted attacks on social benefits for the least-incomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u138	Then Minister Saarikko, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u139	Mr President! Firstly, on biobank legislation: This is part of a larger health growth strategy. This season there is a service system for the above-developed genome centre, neurocenter, cancer center — network-like concepts. From the point of view of the wars, the key to this whole package is the so-called secondary law, which is in the final stages of Parliament, and I am happy to support the committee in completing it very quickly. There were no political reasons why the Biobank Act was not introduced. The timing assessment was one factor: this is also difficult legislation constitutionally, and we know the congestion in PeV, and the ministry itself wanted time to be taken up to ensure that these constitutional data protection problems and others were tackled — that is to say, to make better legislation. There were no tensions over this in itself, but rather practical questions. In any case, as part of the growth strategy for the health sector, precision medicine will hopefully continue over the term of government. Ombudsman for the elderly: The system currently belongs to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice. I believe that these tasks are important for society. This is a very good line for strengthening the Ombudsman. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is happy to have a debate through the services and to support this kind of work by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, but otherwise my personal view is that the system should be assessed as a whole,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u140	Now we will go to the list of speakers and Mr Laukkanen will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u141	Madam President! Thank you again, Ministers, for this good debate. It has been a multi-dimensional debate and I saw the final budgetary debate at the end of the parliamentary term, and I am sure that there were many pressures here as well. First of all, I would like to thank the fact that such a large amount of money, 362 million, has been proposed for grants from public interest bodies, foundations. And this is, of course, game money, but during this reign it has grown by twenty million and it is for the common good. With regard to the model in which this money is being used, I would like to see more thought being given in several ministries as to how, even though it is evenly distributed, this money from games could be used even more effectively. And the application process could also be developed; it would be important for the administration. Let me just mention that the most natural thing would be that associations that help people with low incomes should also be included in this money. That would be the most flexible and easiest, the application procedures exist there and so on. Then I would draw attention to this when we were talking about veterans. Indeed, one of the most important additions that the committee has made is to deal with veterans, and that is indeed an honour for all of us in the decision-making process. Then we'll go to Child Services. Many cities have the same situation that urgent custody is increasing. In a way, this is a new form of child welfare, where it is not a final decision to take care of children, but, as it were, a child is placed somewhere for a while, so that it can then be evaluated in the real state of the family. But this has now become a special feature: For example, a case in which a child under one year of age had kept parents under great supervision. Parents were tired, went to the social services to ask where they could get support for their own endurance, and the result was that the child was taken away from them. Now they're amazed. They went to get help, but they lost their children. It is not completely lost yet, but their idea is that they will never return to child welfare to seek help again. This family, too, was a completely sane family, work for both, a sober family and all in order, no problems. This is something that should be addressed. The second point I would like to make here relates to the new aid linked to this disease in which... - Well, where did I lose it? — In any event, it was a matter of adding money to make it possible to define a treatment recommendation for them and to bring them into good care. I did wonder, for example, what is the situation with regard to indoor air diseases. At the moment, there is no knowledge of indoor air diseases, which in practice means that indoor-air-sick people do not receive the reimbursement of the medicines they should receive. This issue has been discussed with the Ministry, but the problem, as in many cases, was that the medical community is very contentious about where indoor air diseases eventually come from. This is damaging because there are quite a few people who are sick from the indoor air, but they are not now receiving the support of society for their medicines. And this should be fixed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u143	Madam President, the värderade talman! Politik handlar framför allt om värderingar. Den sittande regeringen kan tutuvarr inte få godkänt betyg, i synnerhet då det gäller rättvisepolitik. Arbetslösheten har minskat under denna period, men ändå finns det mycket arbete att göra. Därför vore det viktigt att vidta åtgärder och öppet granska alla öjligheter som kunde bidra till en ökad sysselsättningsgrad och en jämlik behandling av alla medborgare. Jag tar upp några åtgärder som också finns i SFP:s skuggbudget. Vår ekonomier förlorar årligen milardbelopp på grund av sjukpensioner, sjukfrånvaro och arbetsolycksfall. Bättre arbetshälsa skulle spara samhället billioner samtidigt som det förbättrar individers livskvalitet. Därför initierar vi ett nationalellt program för arbetshälsa. SFP:största enskilda satsning är vår familijepolitiska helhetsreform. Den tredelade reformen innebär tillagssatsningar på 345 million euro, den förbättrar barnfamilernas konkreta location i samhället och minskar på familernas vardagsstress genom mer flexibla möjligheter att förena arbetsliv och familti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u144	Madam President! There are a few things I'd like to raise. That is where Mr Laukkanen spoke about this situation in child welfare. Last season, when the Christian Democrats were in the government, a line was made that this home aid should be obtained without having to sign up as a customer of child protection, because it has just had this kind of, could you say, stamping out and then preventing it from seeking help? We just have to hope that this An example from Laukkanen would be a type of individual case. In the past, we also had a strange situation in the area of child welfare in the form of state aids, which led to heavy measures rather than preventive measures, i.e. there was no preventive home aid, because the municipality did not receive state aid as well as the expected deterioration and detention. This should be in order in that respect, but surely the municipalities have to be sharpened in these practices. Many colleagues have raised this issue of food aid here, and I would also like to say that I do support the idea that perhaps we should consider whether this kind of food aid by organisations could be taken up as a separate item in the budget line or as a separate item in the budget book. This work by the organisations combines, firstly, this input from civil society and, more often, these people who are involved in the food work are those people who may have been in the first place to pick up the food bag, and many people’s lives and self-esteem have been raised as a result of the fact that I, the helper, may have become a helper. This work in these organizations and congregations works in two directions. Too often we think that it is only a question of who is looking for that food, but it is equally important work for those who volunteer in it. Here comes so much of such communality and, could you say, this kind of preventive social work, that one should certainly wonder whether this matter could be dealt with in some way other than always with so-called Christmas gifts. I believe that this is the kind of work in which society, in every way, is only on the winning side. And it must also be remembered that there is actually also the third party, that is, these many companies that have left their own places to support these organizations and congregations. It has also developed a form of co-operation, with such climate issues still to come by reducing food waste and being able to contribute to supporting the communality of its locality. These are things that it is good to remember when we talk about this food aid work. Then there is the care of the elderly, which has been much discussed here. It is quite clear that this issue of care for the elderly will certainly be on the list of all future governments, because we do indeed have the fastest ageing nation in Europe and we really need investments, and we really need more nurses. In their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have raised its thousands of new carers, because home care needs staff but also more people to care for and care for. And, of course, this Ombudsman for the Elderly is something that we have raised and, of course, other parties have wanted to support the same thing. Then we also need to think about making a living for the elderly, which means that much has been said about these index cuts. The Christian Democrats would like them to be withdrawn, and we would also like to see a slightly higher increase in this guarantee pension than the increase in government. In the future, it will certainly be necessary to consider the reform of this bill on customer fees, in what way these home-based social services could be better taken into account. After all, the pricing of these services is now quite wild and free in the municipalities, and it is up to many elderly people to stay at home to get home with the services that support living at home. After all, we now have three separate payment ceilings on the health side, for medicines, for cops and for receptions as well, but nothing like this is known in the case of social services, and in that sense this would be one of the issues for the future government to consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u145	Madam President! When you read and look at this section in the debate, it becomes ever more convincing that the reform of the social welfare and health services and the province must be completed during this parliamentary term and it is an extremely good project and a large entity that affects all citizens throughout Finland. That budget book has also made a significant contribution to knowledge and employment, growth and food — I have also spoken about this in other sections. This is a very strong thread, as it were, that goes through the entire budget book, from one section to another. In my opinion, it is terribly important and well understood. Well-being at work, talking about it — that's always the basis for all the ability to function, no matter what the task. Here in the social and health services sector, in the health care sector, this is extremely important because we are constantly living in the public debate about what the future holds, what is the dimension, what is the way in which services are produced, how services are taken home and so forth. Well-being at work is an extremely important issue; it provides the basis for the ability of the entire staff to function. However, I would like to take a slightly different point in this speech from what has probably been taken here. I have just come to the Chamber, but I want to take a look at the agricultural sector, which is also changing in the reform of social and health services. We are still working on the reform of the relief system. There are important reform packages which must be put in place by now at the latest. At present, there are more than 30 local units that manage it. When we go to the provinces, this will go to 18, which will make a lot of sense. Of course, the farmers will also be reduced, but it will also clarify the way things are going when you go from more than 30 to 18 coordinators and that way you may be able to get credibility-impaired and similar instructions for action in the field. It will continue to be terribly important for the farmers, the fur producers and the reindeer sector, and we must be able to take care of this. There's a lot of little details that need to be fixed. On this point, I would also like to mention the fact that there are 3 million additional funds for the Intermediary Farmer project. It's a big bet. It is a big sign from the government that the welfare of farmers has been noted in this severe profitability crisis. However, I would also like to say that it was a fine example when Minister Saarikko had all the employees of the Melan Care Farmer project as well as the employees of the local projects of MTK and the employee of the Labour Efficiency Society project, one person, all of them together, made an extensive petition, an impatience list, which was handed over to him in the autumn of Tampere. It was an excellent indication that a single, small matter can also be used to correct legal security. Some of them are already in the Kela pipeline and some are in preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u146	Mr President! As a result of the previous debate, I would like to use or say seven brief comments on the themes we have just discussed. Firstly, I am very pleased that the main objectives of the SDP are to reduce pensioner poverty, because it is a big problem in our country and I do not think it is part of the welfare society, that people have to wonder whether they are buying food or medicines. Secondly, we have just talked about the supervision of 24-hour care and care, and the supervision of the Ombudsman is not sufficient for this task. Monitoring must take place in the regions, as the situation and locations in the region are best known. In other words, the easiest and best way would be to give better resources to regional authorities. Of course, it is a good thing that the Ombudsman has taken a position on this too, and that is also where the matter is being dealt with, but the monitoring must be carried out, particularly in the regions there. In addition, the SDP also supports the establishment of the post of Ombudsman for the Elderly. We need someone who looks at this as a whole. The third theme I would like to mention here or about which I would actually like to ask Minister Saarikko is the National Memory Program. The current memory program will end in 2020, and now it should definitely be continued, i.e. plan a follow-up to it. And now, unfortunately, I have heard that it is not intended to continue. That would be a really bad decision. For we all know that memory disorders are one of the greatest challenges for the future, and the aim of the memory program is precisely to prepare for the future. The current memory program has worked well. It has provided tools specifically to plan the future care, care, living at home and many other things for people with memory problems. As the fourth theme, the situation of child nurses was also discussed here. I have asked Minister Saarikko two written questions about child nurses, but I have not received an answer from him as to what he intends to do to better identify and help this large group. Thus, it is estimated that there are currently up to 20,000 underage child care providers in Finland, i.e. children or young people who take care of their own parents who have either mental health problems, substance abuse problems or may even be physically ill. And they are not recognized today, let alone that these children and young people will receive help and support in this demanding situation of life. For this reason, I would like to remind or wonder, in fact, how little was said about substance abuse services this evening. The situation of substance abuse services in Finland is very poor and in some places even worse than in other areas. I have a written question on this issue inside, so then I will wait for the Minister's answer on this matter. The next thing is, we also talked a little bit about the energy drink this evening. I think this is excellent that Minister Saarikko has now taken a stand in public this week to ban energy drinks, or what is now the method of actually allowing minors not to use energy drinks, because it is certainly not healthy for them. And last but not least: A lot was said about the active model the other day, but it is also partly a matter for Minister Mattila. Minister Mattila, and the government too, has promised to remedy the main problems of the active model, which were very much discussed here the other night and agreed that there were needs for repair. I have put a written question to Mr Mattila on this matter, and he also said that the government is supposed to correct these mistakes. But even the day before yesterday it was not clear how those mistakes are to be corrected, and with what timetable, I would have liked to ask him about this. On the other hand, I believe that the basic idea of the active model is wrong and should therefore be overturned. We should build support for those who have been unemployed for a long time and help them from a completely different point of view than the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u147	Madam President! Pekka Kuusi, pioneer of the Finnish welfare state and social policy, published his classic work ‘Social Policy of the 60s’ in 1961. The work has not become obsolete over the decades, because its core idea is as topical now as almost 60 years ago. In the radical thinking of the spruce, social policy and economic development were tied together. In the past, these two were strictly separated from each other and social expenditure was seen mainly as a burden on society. This sounds confusingly familiar when you listen to the debate in this Chamber now on the eve of the 2020s. At that time, it was found that current transfers from the wealthy to the poor narrow the income gap, significantly improve consumer demand and strengthen the national economy. There was opposition to change, but eventually the richest in society also admitted that a small Finland would not survive, grow and develop if the nation as a whole were not involved in increasing social and economic capital. They also understood that preventing poverty and misery would also make life easier for them in the face of social peace. That is also why they committed themselves to building a Finnish welfare state. Pekka Kuus said that the welfare society will last if we have the patience to restore the social motive. He was referring to the desire for social justice to support the right of all citizens to social inclusion, i.e. the desire to eliminate or prevent exclusion. Six also meant people's own will to be involved and contribute to the common good. If a person does not find himself and his life meaningful and valuable and if confidence in the future is destroyed, that motivation is weakened. Mr President! We touch on these issues every day when we discuss economic and employment policy, competitiveness and skills, security and justice, children, young people, the elderly, pensioners, the unemployed and so on. The latest statistics reveal a harsh reality. Despite economic developments and an increase in employment rates, poverty and income differentials between families with children have not decreased; on the contrary, they have increased. There is more work now, but any piece of wood does not secure people’s livelihood. Work is not enough if the rest of society's security network is torn apart. As the ministers say, poverty and poverty are not eliminated by transfers of income, but also by services and the right attitude. I couldn't agree more. It is true, however, that the central government shares of municipalities have been cut considerably. At the same time, the prevailing climate highlights individual responsibility and detracts from social responsibility and solidarity. Those most in need of assistance have been referred to as ‘weaker materials’. I'm sure it'll tell you everything that's relevant. In particular, given the tax solutions that have benefited those on good income and the cuts in social and unemployment security, we do not have to wonder why the situation is what it is. Minister Saarikko, a mere change in the culture of action is not enough to eliminate social and social problems. We also need euros. It would be useful to recall why progressive taxation was introduced at the time. We also need to reform our social security system and our way of organising work and family leave. Of these, the SDP has made excellent openings in the past. Mr President! Today, social and intellectual capital, knowledge, decline and inequality and injustice continue to grow. It undermines the basic security of people, especially children and young people, creates a lack of vision and undermines the hope of a better future. Eventually, it gives rise to bitterness and hatred as a result. Professor Pekka Kuusi in the 1960s understood this equation — the wealthy and possessive class of that time, the elite, understood that equation. The current policy does not sustain the welfare state, but dismantles it. This isn't a coincidence. It is in this time, today a conscious choice, a conscious political assessment, a choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u148	Madam President! It is great that the preventive services of families with children have been invested in under this government, and this is reflected in the budget under consideration. Cooperation between the various actors has improved and encouraging experiences have been gained in municipalities regarding the importance of multi-professional cooperation. The early support of families is worthwhile not only in human terms but also in economic terms. It is not possible to measure the results of providing assistance immediately, but, for example, support for baby families can save more than ten years from special youth work. Home help for families was driven down 20 years ago. Many dents and experiences had to be greatly increased to realize the importance of early help. This reform of the Social Welfare Act has gradually entered into force, but everything a and o should be about getting help on a low threshold and without the risk of being stigmatised. It is important to support families in everyday life. Families with many children are a great wealth, but even a large construction site that can easily be run out of time. However, the number of children is not decisive, for sometimes there may be only one child in the family that can stop. I can’t help advertising my own hometown of Raahe in this context, where the Children-to-Speak policy has been used. According to this practice, in early childhood education and primary school, teachers have been able to map the situation of the family more generally in connection with parental meetings and have been able to provide suitable professional services if they are in need. The budget for next year includes several thousand more households and recipients for both household care and other support services compared to the previous year. This does not necessarily mean that the amount of distress is expected to increase, but rather, hopefully, that we can ask for help in a timely manner. There is great wisdom in the family to be aware of the need for help in time. A moment’s breath in the care of young children and the knowledge that help can be provided if needed will help you to cope. Parents with a good support network are able to raise balanced children and young people. Madam President! My own experience as a teacher has strengthened my understanding that there are often guardians of poor life - control in the background of a symptomatic child and young person. It is worth investing in supporting parenthood in all possible ways, because a parent who is an artist in his or her own life would like to be a good guardian and offer his or her child the best possible childhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u149	Madam President! To begin with, it must be said that Finnish public health care is one of the best in the world. All people are treated equally — generally, but not always — regardless of their income level and background. This autumn I have studied public health from the point of view of a group of patients. For the first time, I heard about a medical condition called ME/CFS when I ran into Krista Lahtinen's public Facebook update in the autumn. Krista is a young woman, a bike navigator who suddenly contracted an unknown illness about five years ago. The main message from him and the friends treating him was that he did not receive symptomatic treatment even at the minimum level. When these things came up in the autumn, I invited MPs from different parties to meet patients and doctors. The Parliamentary Ombudsman's Office was also represented at the meeting. Our fellow Members, Martti Talja, Matti Semi, Sari Tanus and Tiina Elovaara, deserve special thanks. Mr President! ME/CFS is a serious physical condition that completely invalidates patients in many cases. Duodecim estimates that at least 10,000 people have contracted this disease in Finland. The picture of the disease is usually that a healthy person suddenly begins with prolonged fatigue and malaise, which is aggravated by even a small amount of effort and does not even get better at rest. Other symptoms may include prolonged fever, changes in heart rate, muscle and joint pains, inflammations, and reduced short-term memory. The cause of the disease has not yet been identified. Private healthcare often treats patients’ symptoms with good results, unlike the public side, which recognises and knows this disease poorly. Now is the time to look at the model internationally. We can't be a backward place where people get dumped. In Norway, about a thousand ME/CFS diagnoses were carried out a year less than ten years ago, while in Finland the annual number of diagnoses is calculated with the fingers of two hands. In Sweden just this week a report from the State Medical Assessment Unit (SBU) on ME/CFS was published. The report stresses the importance of diagnosing the disease. It was also mentioned that if there is not yet comprehensive scientific evidence of any treatment, it does not mean that patients will not benefit from the treatment. Patients calling for experimental treatments also in Finland. We need more research instead of taking it down. No person with severe physical illness should be classified as mentally ill just because the doctor does not know the origin of the disease. Some parents have to fight not only to care for their children but also to care for their children when child welfare suspects that they invented symptoms for their children. Mr President! Parliament has heard the call for help from ME/CFS patients and tomorrow confirms the need to act immediately in their behalf. The Committee on Finance allocated EUR 200,000 to the adoption of the Good Practice Recommendation on ME/CFS. The Parliament expects experts and patients to be gathered at the same table and to review the situation and scientific evidence also through the experiences of other countries, such as Sweden and Norway. Mr President! The reason I am talking about this one type of illness is that this is not the only problem in Finland. We have to say that we have a number of diseases in which there is much room for correction. We also receive a great deal of feedback from indoor-air-sick, multi-chemical-sensitive MCS patients and people with thyroid problems. Their situation too requires serious attention. Throughout the ages, there have been diseases that have not been known about their cause and have been discriminated against. These include HIV, ms-disease and epilepsy. Unfortunately, history repeats itself. Mr President! Finally, in conclusion, I would like to ask: When will patients be believed? When will attention be paid to existing scientific evidence and investment in further research? I'm calling doctors for professional pride. So I want to do it for me. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u150	We have these time limits agreed together, but let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u151	Madam President! First of all, in the main category of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it is important to facilitate the livelihoods of the most vulnerable. Guarantee pensions will be increased by a total of EUR 10 million and minimum daily allowances by EUR 20 million. It is a fundamental value of a welfare society to support the most vulnerable. Secondly, it is important to encourage the reception of short-term work. The reconciliation of unemployment benefit will move from the current reconciliation of income at the earned date to the settlement of income at the time of payment. As a third point: support for the daily lives of families with children by allocating EUR 25 million to domestic assistance and child protection — very important investments. The good news for families is also that the status of adoptive and plural families and single mothers in our benefit system will be strengthened. It is a good thing that this government, at the initiative of the coalition, also took forward the reform of family leave in the middle of the parliamentary term. Some corrections were made to family leave benefits, but the overall reform needed was still to be carried out for the next parliamentary term. Now that the coalition has raised this issue to the government agenda and to the wider social debate that has now taken place, I believe that there will be broad support in the next parliamentary term for the reform of family leave. This is important because families need more flexibility to organise their everyday life smoothly, better options to combine, for example, part-time work with parental leave, entrepreneurship with parental leave and so on. In other words, a more flexible day-to-day life for families, the interests of children and the improvement of the labour market position for women are the main reasons why family leave reform is needed, without forgetting, of course, equal parenthood. A child has the right to both parents. And families must be left wide choice to organise their own everyday life, where the family itself is the best expert in their own situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u152	Mr President! Clinical, health and medical research saves lives and increases the effectiveness of health care. The budget proposal's EUR 21 million base, to which the Committee on Finance added EUR 2.8 million, is still not sufficient. Municipalities support research in medical districts, especially in university hospitals and major central hospitals, with several million euros per year. I am very concerned about the implementation of the social welfare reform, regardless of how important research entities will be in the future if there is no increase in research funding for the STM budget. I am very concerned that Minister Saarikko has presented a plan to sink research funding into the implementation of the social welfare reform as part of the overall funding of the provinces. I can't commit to this thinking. The decision-makers in the provinces would therefore have to choose between the implementation of the specific health and care needs of the citizens and clinical research. I can only imagine how difficult it would be for the smallest university hospitals in particular at that time. I hope that all parties participating in the upcoming Government Programme negotiations will focus on the funding of clinical health research through the budget funding of STM, no matter how social and health services will be organised and produced in Finland in the future. Even from the point of view of medical research, Finland is a small country. In reality, it is important to remember that funding is targeted particularly at those areas of research where we already have strong knowledge and whose importance, from the point of view of the economy, the prevalence and the development of treatments, gives the best possible impact. EUR 5.2 million has been allocated to the article concerning the National Genome, Cancer and Medicine Centre. It is also possible to finance the National Neurocentre. However, it is not mentioned in the title. Research and development related to the Neuro Centre is fully under way. Different treatment is not sufficient to justify an early stage of development of the package, and in exactly the same situation there is a drug development centre. That is why the National Neuro Centre would have earned its place among other centres of major work. Its funding must also be secured during the next parliamentary term. Finally, the increase in the budget of the Finance Committee to support indoor air research by the Prime Minister's Office will enable at least two researchers to be recruited for a year, with the right focus. Indoor air health research is a good example of interdisciplinary research, where there is a need for extensive cooperation between medical experts and construction professionals, among others. This type of research cooperation will also be needed in other areas that are important for the health and safety of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u153	Mr President! The services of the elderly at best provide security for the elderly and their loved ones. A nurse who truly works with heart and skill is worth many times her salary to society. Such a nurse can rehabilitate her client, prevent mental health, take care of nutrition, cleanliness, and detect changes in an elderly person’s health. An overworked, exhausted and job-absorbing nurse is only technically able to cope with washing and necessary care at the home of an elderly person. Such work increases the debt of correction that we are facing shortly to pay. In addition to the very strict resources for home care, we also have a phenomenon called ghost nurses. These ghost nurses are nurses who are listed on duty, but who are not actually working with the elderly. Certainly no one knows the real number of these at the moment, because because of the resources it is only possible to carry out controls in the most distressed units. It should therefore be possible to increase the resources of the Regional State Administrative Agency specifically for monitoring. The system of self-monitoring is not an adequate system, not for the elderly, not for the children, not for the disabled. It is a good support and added to the nursing work, the ethics of nursing and the morals that are given to professionals in the field of education, but external supervision must be significantly better resourced than it is at present. There are also shortcomings in municipal self-control plans, and the supervision of purchasing services in particular is completely non-existent in several municipalities. In fact, controls are only carried out when there are complaints or messages that the dimensions or other conditions are not in order, and that is not the case. Monitoring is often also carried out in such a way as to be notified in advance — yes, the avi also makes unannounced visits — but the pre-announced visits may lead to preparations being made for inspection in particular, and then the real situation will not be brought up in the way it should be, in order to be able to find out what resources, what kind of care and the quality of care are at stake. The most flagrant examples of the lack of human resources are, therefore, these so-called ghost nurses. As the number of elderly people in Finland increases, the number of clients in home care will also increase and thus the work pressure of carers. The pressures at work may lead to a deterioration in quality and a spiral of fatigue, which is why we need to wake up to the situation of home care, the emergency cries we have heard recently from home care that nurses are moving away from work because they feel that they are unable to work according to the kind of education and learning that they have received and which they themselves would find to be the right way to handle, and that is what we need to hear. We must also take seriously the fact that home is not the best place to live. For years we have been saying, all the political parties and all the politicians have been saying, only mantra, that home is the best place for man to live. A home is the best place for a person to live if it is safe, but not for all the elderly. Mr President! The government must also be praised for its good decisions, and it is important that the child allowance for single parents was raised and that the lowest income families are getting an increase in the daily allowance. I'm sure it'll bring relief to a lot of family lives. These improvements are in a good direction, but we would have liked more of them. Overall, measures to combat poverty among families with children are: [The President knocks ] The level of ambition of the regime is far too high. 20 years ago in the mid-90s
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u158	These time limits are recommendations, but they are agreed by the Council of Presidents, and that is, of course, a tight time when there is much to be said.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u159	Mr President! With its cuts, the government weakens the position of the most low-income and vulnerable people. Customer fees for health services have been increased and the share of pharmaceuticals has risen. The share of the cost of travel related to medical care has risen dramatically. This is very bad for those who need a lot of health services and who use a lot of medicines. Many hard - sick people are already living below the poverty line. Many low - income elderly people wonder if there is enough money for medicine for food and housing to pay for their pension. This is inhumane and unreasonable. The index freezes of basic low income security benefits continue for the fourth year. The cumulative impact of government savings increases the risk of poverty, especially among low-income families with children, older people and people with disabilities. The green alternative budget will significantly increase the guarantee pension in order to improve the position of the poorest pensioners. At the same time, as the population ages, the number of elderly people who cannot survive at home without support will increase. Every old man deserves human care, intimacy and stimulation. Housing at home must be supported by taking home services such as catering and cleaning services. Since there are persistent serious shortcomings in the care of the elderly, there is a need to register a nurse’s appointment in the law. Family care is an affordable and humane solution. Currently, the support for informal care and the criteria for granting it differ from one locality to another. Support for informal care must be increased, and support services must be provided to family carers so that they are better able to care for their loved ones. By the government, the meal allowance for celiacs has been completely abolished. It's not fair. The only treatment for coeliac disease, the only medicine, is a gluten-free diet. Symbolically, support is important as it encourages celiacs to take care of themselves. Mr President! Every eighth Finnish child lives in a poor family. The child poverty rate tripled from the mid-1990s to 2007. Then it remained at 10 per cent, but turned to a new growth in 2012. In the light of these halting figures, the government should take corrective action and cancel the cuts in the benefits of families with children. The government has cut family benefits by freezing index increases for child supplements, restricting the child’s right to day care, increasing group sizes of day care and cutting basic security and benefits for the unemployed and other disadvantaged persons. Children at risk of poverty and social exclusion can be helped by improving support and services for families with children, promoting reconciliation of work and family life, and restoring the right to day care for every child. For example, there is no family-supporting home service available as before the recession in the 1990s. The home service of families can help with childcare, laundry and cooking when everyday crises affect you. The return of family resources will help in employment and training. In the early 1990s, some 60,000 families received home service each year, now only 15,000. Despite the reform of the Social Welfare Act, many families have been deprived of support and home help. Investing in children and young people breaks the cycle of disadvantage. This is also the basic idea of our welfare state. Investing in the well-being of children and families is an investment in the future. One of the most important tasks of the forthcoming government term is to reduce the poverty of families with children. The funding plan for tackling child poverty must be started now. Mr President! We have much to thank — from a free country — veterans of our wars. I am delighted that the services to be taken home for veterans will improve. Elderly, fragile veterans need services to be taken home, as many are no longer able to leave the home for rehabilitation. I would also like to thank the committee for the increase in aid dog activity. The dog promotes and maintains the physical, mental and social ability of the disabled person to be assisted. I also agree with the committee's demand that we need national policies on identification and treatment of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and the granting of social benefits. Now many patients have been deprived of help and care, which is completely unsustainable in the welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u160	Mr President! We live in important times for Finland’s social and health care services. In the next few months, it will be decided where to take Finland. However, many things have happened in the shadow of the social welfare reform, and the government's handprint is not very convincing. The Sipilä government will remain in history as a weakening of basic security and basic services. Inequality has increased. The well-off population has a fairly good model, but the recent good economic development is increasingly lagging behind the low incomes, the unemployed, the sick, families with children and the elderly. Despite economic growth, the government will continue to freeze the indexes next year, which, throughout the entire government term, have weakened the basic security of people with low incomes. Many people on low incomes, such as those receiving a small pension, long-term ill or single-parent families, often receive various social security benefits at the same time, such as housing allowance, sickness allowance, unemployment benefit, parental allowance. Social security cuts and index freezes have now been carried out every year by this government, and they are still often cumulated with the same people and families, which has resulted in a great gap in the basic security of low income people and families and have driven people into income support. For example, there has been a debate here today that index cutting is not a real cut. However, we can show that, for example, the national pension per month is EUR 25 less than it would have been if this index freeze had not been made, and accordingly this figure is EUR 300 per year. In the case of unemployment allowance, the situation is EUR 27 50 cents per month, i.e. EUR 330 per year. Unfortunately, the government parties, the coalition, the centre and the blue have accepted this cut in value. The weakening of the position of people dependent on basic security and increasing inequality have been a conscious policy of the government from the outset. This course must finally be reversed. The Social Democrats will not accept this, and in our alternative budget these cuts would not be made. Mr President! In the case of long-term ills, two specific shortcomings need to be raised. The government has abolished the dietary allowance for people with celiac disease. At present, people with celiac disease do not receive any support from society for the treatment of their disease, even if it is an autoimmune disease, such as rheumatism and ms disease. People with coeliac disease have experienced the government’s indifference and understatement toward them. As a result, celiacs have become unequal in relation to people with other diseases. Since this is not being corrected by the current government, this should be corrected immediately by the new government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u165	Mr President! I would like to start by returning to the previous debate here on the issue of the exclusion of young people and the related depression and mental health problems. And, as we have said here, these problems must be pursued and prevented as early as possible. Of course, it is important not only in human terms but also socially and economically in the long term. In their protests to the report of the Committee on Finance, the Finns have stressed the importance and importance of the work done by the third sector, organisations, and we urge the government to invest in the resources and other conditions of the mental health work carried out by the organisations, and also in the prevention of bullying. Mr President! We have also talked a lot today about the status of families with children and the drastic decline in birth rates. Sadly, the birth rate has already fallen to less than 50,000 children a year, thus reaching its lowest level in 150 years. The decline in birth rate has been exacerbated by the economic weakness of families with children, among others. And while the government this season, quite rightly, has generally reduced income tax, it has even tightened up in relation to families with children. This is mainly due to the fact that: At the end of 2017, Sipilä's Board of Directors abolished the tax deduction on children, which was previously known to families with children with low and medium incomes, their parents, up to EUR 400 increase in net income. Now it's gone. And unfortunately, the proposal of the Finns of Peru to return child allowance fell earlier in this vote in the run-up to Christmas. It is also recalled that the child allowance was introduced at the beginning of 2015 to compensate for the drastic child replacement surgery of the Stubbi Government. Mr President! I asked the Minister earlier in this debate about the impact of the social welfare reform on the level of customer fees, in practice increasing them. Unfortunately, I did not get a clear answer as to what the new level would be. But if the government's freedom of choice model is introduced, it will in any case mean an increase of several dozen per cent in customer fees. These effects would be most severe, especially for the most deprived part of the population, and although freedom of choice is in itself a desirable objective, particular care must be taken to ensure that the level of customer charges does not increase significantly. It is a very difficult place for us representatives to see that information of this importance is not available to Parliament, even though it is directly linked to the acceptability of the reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u166	Mr President! In the spring of 2015, when the Government Programme was drawn up, the economic situation was extremely gloomy in many ways. It had deteriorated during the previous parliamentary term and for a long time, and a wide range of measures had to be taken at that time. Unfortunately, the government was not able to move on the tax side as if it had been reasonable and fair. The use of taxation, as it were, was left to be forgotten and nailed down. Then the measures that had to be taken were unduly directed towards basic security and these benefits, which are vital to families with children, pensioners, the sick and the unemployed and other special groups. At least we Finns were able to prevent, for example, a cut in housing allowance for pensioners, which was included in the government program, Appendix 6, but many others came that we could not prevent. Well, it can be said that the result has been achieved in the sense that, at national level, with the help of international development, that government programme has brought about a change in direction and today the economic situation is significantly better than it was three to four years ago — a really decisive improvement. And here the situation is that the government has now had the opportunity, in its last budget, to reverse this policy significantly, quite substantially for the benefit of these most vulnerable people who were cut off in the early years. This is the bright line of our alternative budget. Indeed, we did not put forward index increases for all benefits in our alternative budget, but we focused on those population groups that are most in need of help at the moment. But when the government parties knocked out, as Mr Savio said on that one point, all of these fairness, our moderate ambition, then, at this last stage, we would have liked to have the index increases brought in and the freezes removed. Well, those too were left behind, and the government’s cold line in this regard continues. Unfortunately, the next few years now seem rather gloomy, and this is why there is concern about how Finland will survive. The birth rate has collapsed, and poverty is deep. There is a need for justice in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u167	Mr President! The Sote reform sought, or at least sought, savings of EUR 3 billion in relation to current cost developments. However, the consultation of the Committee on Finance has already made it clear that these savings may not be possible, at least in the short term, for several years. In the early years, 700 million of these savings were sought from elderly services. One of the key goals of savings at the time was that customers in daily service housing would move more to home care. The target was to reduce service housing by 40 per cent. For one example, let me tell you about a friend of mine who lives at home: She turned 90 less than two months ago. Marianna loves her home and wants to live there for the rest of her life. However, age brings a lot of limitations in life to coping independently at home 24/7. Marianna, together with her children, has been applying for a long time to live in a service house. In home care, the day - to - day nurses who cared for Marianna carried out an evaluation of the need for services, which concluded that she was unable to cope at home. Well, after this was established, the supervisors gathered at their round table in their own office and, surprise, without ever seeing Marianna, they decided that she did not need a place to live in service. It was only found that we should increase our home visits and visit them three times a day from now on. Such decisions, which are taken at least constantly in Vantaa, undermine the professionalism and family of home nurses. My wife is a home nurse in Vantaa. She's a midwife, she'd like to do a midwife's job, but when it's a three-shift job, she had to stop it in 2011 soon after my election here. And she also loves caring for the elderly as a nurse, of course, but she has been out of the house nurse’s job six months ago to continue her studies, to get into other kinds of jobs. And what's the reason? Well, that's exactly what Kristiina Salonen was talking about earlier: home nurses are all so exhausted and overloaded with that assignment. We also speak beautifully at the Vantaa Council every year that we want to increase our resources. Although it must be said that Vantaa has heard some of these concerns. It has added 15 home nurses to next year's budget for Vantaa, but it means that, for example, Korso, where I live, only one more home nurse, and there are seven teams. In practice, it does not solve these problems to any extent. Workers become weary, older people do not face up and receive adequate care and care. Vantaa decided that next year's budget will continue to increase the number of people aged over 75 living at home. In practice, when these texts were registered, it means that officials will follow our decisions and will certainly do everything they can to ensure that not even the 90-year-old Marianna can live in a service house. Now, one special feature of this care — or neglect — of the elderly is that they are usually told that you are in such good health that you are still able to live at home. Then, on the other hand, if you go to a home to live in, you should be in good health enough to be able to live there on your own, otherwise you cannot get there. Well, at the end of the day, this is what happens to these elderly people, unfortunately, that very many people get hurt at home, break their hips or some member when they fall down there, and then go to the hospital. And unfortunately, for a lot of people, that hospital is their last home. They will no longer get well from there if they are seriously injured in their 90 ’ s, but will die of the treatment that is then being done there. That is why I ask and appeal to Parliament to legislate to ensure that the minimum amount of home care staff and carers is measured so that our valuable elderly people can receive valuable and appropriate care and service. In addition, we need to increase funds to give each of them, for their last years of life, the opportunity to live in a service home if the condition demands it and if the elderly also see it as necessary for their own mental well-being. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u168	Mr President! In this area of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I also welcome the fact that improvements are being made to the services of front veterans. As of 1 November 2019, the new legislation will enable the Front Veterans to have the same home-based services as the war-affiliated ones. The increase in appropriations is EUR 20 million. The decision to ensure the services of front veterans and their equality regardless of their place of residence and war fate. At the beginning of this year there were still 14,000 Veterans alive and now 12,000. The average age is 93 years. Of them, fewer than 2,000 are left. Mr President! The government will also improve the position of the garrison. If the garrison is injured in carrying out military service, he will be in a better position next year than before. Indeed, a military officer is entitled to a lump sum for permanent damage caused by an injury or a war disease, and this is a significant improvement. In the future, the next of kin of a conscript who died in military service would also be entitled to a lump sum in the form of life insurance. Of course, in these cases of death, there is nothing to compensate for the human loss, but even here it is justified to take greater account of the role of family members.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u169	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on the situation of care for the elderly. For example, representatives of Salonen and Niikko raised the issue of the fact that we currently have many elderly people living at home who could not actually manage at home. We need more care housing and home-like service housing, and in the next period we need to look at the old-age service law so that these criteria can be tightened up and we can also put nurseries into the law, so that we can have a sufficient number of caring hands for our elderly. Mr Kiljunen also spoke about the allowance for coeliac disease, and I fully agree with what he said. After all, the previous government increased the coeliac allowance. At the time we got a raise, and grotesquely enough, the current government then decided to abolish the whole aid. Thus, coeliacs do not receive any support for the treatment of their disease, even though everyone understands that gluten - free diets become more expensive and is the only possible treatment for people with coeliac disease. However, I would like to raise a few glimpses of this government budget, for which I can truly thank you. The treatment of intoxicant mothers is an issue that has been concerned and budgeted over several years so that pregnant mothers who want to ensure the health of their child born and want to receive support for a life without substance abuse are now able to do so, once the money has been secured for the care of the intoxicant mothers. Minimum parental allowance has also been increased and the status of adoption families improved. These are important actions and help families with children living in these situations, but even these improvements do not remove the reality of the big picture that we have more than 130,000 poor children living in Finland and that we have an increase in family poverty. Since universal support for families with children has deteriorated so significantly and the benefits of the unemployed have been cut, many poor families are now in deep distress even though Christmas is coming. Mr President! It's about the veterans' situation. I agree with what Mr Vikman has raised. It is wonderful that Parliament has together shown the will to give hand-out to our honourable citizens and to put things in order for veterans. For example, the least disabled war candidates now receive the same services
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u170	Mr President! This budget report by the Committee on Finance contains some very good additions compared to the original government budget proposal. Of course, these additions are small in euro, but at least very important in principle, and they have already been highlighted by the Finns of Finland in our own alternative budget, for example. In particular, I would like to draw attention to two issues which representatives of Niikko and The Kankaanniemi has shown a great deal of credit in the committee, which has now been brought into this report as an increase in appropriations: First of all, I would like to mention the chronic fatigue syndrome, which Mr Niiko has already described, and which the committee will therefore add EUR 200,000 to its classification and national treatment recommendations. It should be noted here that, according to Duodecim, there are at least 10,000 patients with this disease in Finland, but unfortunately so far their symptoms have not been wanted or at least always taken seriously. This issue is particularly important in principle in the sense that this committee decision, which I hope will be adopted unanimously in the plenary session tomorrow, will open up the possibility for those affected by this disease to receive a correct and fair diagnosis and then to receive treatment. As a second point, I would like to raise the issue of EUR 1200000 in support of food aid organisations, which was included in the alternative budget for Finns. This was in the 2016 and 2017 budget, but last autumn the government parties wanted to remove this from it. The opposition, of course, also then voted in favour of it, but the opposition's joint proposal fell short. Well, now we've got this back in the budget. The need for food aid is still high in Finland, although economic growth has been good in recent years. It has therefore been hoped in this sitting that this aid, which, however, is no more than about 1-50000 from the state budget, could be taken as permanent aid so that it does not always have to be twisted here in Parliament every year. Finally, I would like to thank the whole House for its apparent unanimous determination to improve the veterans who have defended us in war with great merit and risk of their own lives. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u171	Mr President! We will have the day tomorrow, in this section, when we will vote on these amendments, which the opposition has tabled in total 102 paragraphs. These amendments generally reflect the finding that the government may not have started to improve all the things that would have been possible with small money, and these are for the most part proposals with such small money. As an example, I would like to highlight the suggestion made by Ritva Elomaa that EUR 500000 could increase the amount of friendly activities for the elderly and that more activities could be developed for the elderly living at home and also for service homes, particularly through organisations, with a significant amount of this kind of money. For example, this does not usually mean hiring staff, but many organisations are able to train several dozen or hundreds of people with this amount, who are able to act in a controlled and organised manner. Such observations are usually made by those who are themselves active in the care sector, as Kike Elomaa has done itself. Furthermore, there are proposals here — if you look at this number 71, for example — which I would have thought would have been found by other members of the opposition parties. In fact, it reads in Action Kankanniemi’s presentation: ‘The Commission requires the government to prepare a change in the employment pension system,which will restore the folded index to the 50-50 index for small and medium-sized pensions by the end of 2022. “ I would have expected — at least I did not find it — that the Social Democrats also raised this point, because they are very much emphasising in their own speeches, especially before the elections, that pensions have been cut too much and that this decent living income is lacking for these low-income pensioners, who are well over half a million in Finland. However, although it is possible to do these things and present them here, they will probably fail to do so during the next parliamentary term, even if they talk about it before the elections. This has already been said many times before. Furthermore, there is also a good proposal from Kankaanniemi that the government return index checks to all benefits and pensions for which they have been frozen. There are a lot of such proposals to improve human dignity and, in general, proposals for people with little means here, 102 pieces, but tomorrow they will all be rejected, and this Parliament will work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u172	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last oral Question Time of this year, we discussed poverty and the increase in inequality. During this term of government, Finland has taken a very worrying path. According to Statistics Finland's recently published statistics on income distribution, inequality among Finns is increasing with increasing income differentials. In 2017, the number of persons belonging to households with low incomes was 654,000. The share of low-income earners in the household population was 12.1 per cent, which is 0.6 percentage points more than in the previous year. Poverty development is even more common when household health care fees are taken into account, you can find out from a recent study by THL. When customer fees are deducted from people's disposable income, the share of the poor in the population will increase by thousands. A typical health care customer fee is the medical visit fee of the health centre. For example, the poverty rate of people over 65 will increase by nearly 2 percentage points, taking account of customer fees. The highest customer fees are paid by low incomes and pensioners. On the one hand, because they have a greater need for services and, on the other hand, because they do not have voluntary health insurance or occupational health care. When they simply don’t have enough money, they save up for medical visits, so they don’t go to the doctor, or to the food. This is commonplace for one-tenth of our old people. In addition, 30 percent of long-term sufferers postpone or switch to a cheaper drug. This seems to me to be a very bad social policy for the welfare state. Mr President! It is no coincidence that last year, some 320,000 social welfare and health care customer fees ended up in enforcement. These were just the usual fees for dental care, health centre, hospital or institutional and home services, as well as other social services. So it's not a luxury charge. Although customer fees have already been high in Finland by international comparison, they have been increased by almost 30 per cent by the current government. Thus, poverty and enforcement have been increased. I believe that the health centre fee should be abolished altogether. It would immediately help low incomes, pensioners and families with unemployment. After all, last week the government presented its long-awaited proposal for a new bill on customer payments. I am disappointed that this proposal does not respond to the serious problems of equality in health care. According to the proposal, the fee could be charged for each visit to the health centre instead of the current maximum number of three. Furthermore, the government's proposal does not prohibit the placing of social welfare charges in the hands of international collection agencies, which exploit our elderly and other low incomes. And I'm really disappointed that the government's budget for next year will not reduce customer fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u173	Mr President! We must make decisions towards making Finland the best country in the world for children and families. Finland is already among the best in the world, but of course we also have something to improve. This budget will support the daily lives of families with children next year by allocating EUR 25 million to help families with children and child protection, for example because home aid is a low-threshold service to the temporary needs of families. The basic security of the most low income families of young children will be improved as the minimum daily allowance rises. The influenza vaccine programme will be developed and expanded to provide vaccination in the future from six-month-olds to six-year-olds. A further EUR 1 million will be added to the purchase of vaccines. With regard to vaccines on a wider scale, the decline in vaccine coverage is a particularly worrying trend in which I urge the government to resolutely seek solutions to ensure vaccine coverage. Because it's not private if the herd shelter weakens. A young child cannot decide on his or her own health or how to protect it. It is good that vaccination and the vaccination programme have been developed. The phenomenon of vaccine resistance has already been addressed, but I hope that even more decisive action will be taken by the government, because it is really important for the health of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u174	Mr President! Mr Vikman pointed out that the government budget had slightly increased the budget for child protection. We have long heard alarms about the poor situation in child protection: workers are being burdened, among other things, and the workload is high. Children’s symptoms and mental disorders have grown, and the problems of families are great, due, among other things, to the growing poverty of families with children. One of the key things that we can do to facilitate the quality of child protection is to have a nurseship, to have a social worker in the Child Welfare Act, so that one social worker has a maximum of 30 children, whose well-being he is best able to devote himself to. In order to facilitate mental disorders in children, new ways must be found throughout the country. In my hometown of Espoo, there is a low-threshold youth clinic Nupoli, and it has proved to be a very effective service, namely that a young person can contact Nupoli at any time in his or her case. Professional helpers reflect on the situation of young people and can either direct them to a discussion tree or to other support and services. Mr Taavitsainen has done a great deal of work to cut down the speed levers and help people who are in debt spirals. We still have a great deal of work to do in this legislative area, for example, so that we can limit the aggressive marketing of speed levers. At the moment, the Committee on Legal Affairs is dealing, among other things, with a law in which the maximum interest rate ceiling of 30% is to be set for all speed levers. Of course, you can ask whether this is enough, because 30% also sounds very large. Social credit is available in about half of Finland's municipalities, and...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u177	Mr President! Much has been said today in Parliament about pensioner poverty, and also Mrs Niikko has just raised a good proposal from the Finns on which we will therefore vote here tomorrow in Parliament's plenary session. The gym will probably be a little more full than it is now. As Mr Niikko has just said, our proposal would increase all occupational pensions, but, in terms of both relative and tax terms, the greatest benefits in euro would also be for pensioners receiving an employment pension of around EUR 1 000. In fact, the model of the Finns Party would introduce a mid-term index for the first EUR 1 000 of pension income, and this would of course have a major impact on the small working pensions of pensioners who have worked in low-paid long-term jobs, often women. It would make it easier for them to survive at home on their own and, of course, increase domestic demand. Mr President! We also have many other good proposals in our alternative budget, such as improving the financial situation of family carers working in a human and social context. We are proposing to convert informal care support into tax-free income. Mr President! While the ministers were still there, we spoke briefly about the active model. After all, about a year ago Parliament decided to adopt an active model, despite strong opposition from the opposition. We warned here at the time that this active model would lead to potential difficulties, inter alia because it treats unemployed people unequally, depending on whether there is work or other active measures available in or near their place of residence. Unfortunately, it has now become apparent that the active model has been very weak and has cut the benefits of some 160 000 unemployed people during July-September. Minister Lindström has also stated publicly that the measures taken in line with the active model have been rather limited and have therefore not worked nearly as well as the government in its proposal or the ministers here in Parliament in presenting the matter to us. Now Minister Mattila, who presented this model to us in Parliament last year, should definitely be prepared to remedy these problems. And there is also this citizens' initiative in Parliament to reject the active model. On the other hand, the government has decided to stop experimenting with regional employment and business services, where the unemployed have been face-to-face and many people have been involved in this service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u178	Mr President! Earlier today I talked about those sick groups with this kind of unknown disease, and that they may not get fair treatment, such as ME/CFS patients. We have so many other groups of people who are not taken seriously. One group is definitely more than 36,000 people with celiac disease. In 2015 the government made a decision — in which, unfortunately, we were also sitting at the time — to put an end to the EUR 10 million subsidy. After all, 33,600 people received the subsidy, which amounted to EUR 23,6 per month. However, this EUR 23.6 per month was only part of it. It has been calculated that the cost of a gluten-free diet is about EUR 70 per month for a person with celiac disease who needs this special diet, i.e. several hundred euros per year. This decision was based on a very short-sighted approach, namely that the special diet is not the ‘I feel’ choice, but on the mandatory choice of disease. For example, a person who does not eat gluten-free bread and food begins to experience a great deal of fatigue and many other symptoms. I know this because there are many of these people in my family circle. And when this decision was taken, Mr. Savio remembers this well when we in our group discussed this, we would not have liked to have accepted it, but the half of the group of Finns who went out and the ministers who hijacked the seats from our party wanted this cut to be done. And we often make such value choices simply coldly by reading the figures that are being presented to us and that need saving. In that sense, I am deeply annoyed and sorry that we still had people in the group who did not see the need for these people to receive this compensation for their special diet. However, here is a good, happy outcome. In 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court stated that these persons who cannot afford to buy this special diet should also receive supplementary income support. In other words, discretionary income support must receive this EUR 23,6 per month in full, so I hope everyone knows that. If we cannot afford it, then society will support it along another route.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u179	Mr President! I had to take up that important issue raised by Mr Karimäki, namely social credit. I put a written question to the Minister earlier this year. In that question, I explained how much social credit would help people on low incomes, because it is precisely to prevent economic exclusion and over-indebtedness and help people regain control of their economies or to break the cycle of debt, rehabilitation, employment, housing or otherwise overcome a serious crisis. More than half of the recipients of social credits are employees, and the next largest group has been pensioners. However, in Finland only about 30 municipalities actually grant social credit to residents of their own municipality. The granting of this credit is voluntary for municipalities, which, of course, puts people with low incomes at a disadvantage, depending on their country of residence. There is a clear need for social credit, because, as has already been mentioned many times here today, we have a very large number of people living in Finland who are in a weak economic situation and there has been a sharp increase in payment disruptions over the past few years. This social credit means that people will then have the opportunity to obtain credit on reasonable terms in order to get their lives back on track. It will then support the well-being of parents of families with children in this way, for example, and will have a direct impact on children's lives and child poverty, which we discussed today in Parliamentary Question Time. The credit loss risk of municipalities has been very low, only about one per cent. So this is about people taking care of their business when they're given the chance. I believe that social credit must be integrated into all municipalities and, if it is to be implemented, it will require reform of the legislation. The next government will therefore have to propose a change to the law on social credit, so that social credit will also be extended to the statutory task of each municipality in a uniform manner throughout the country, and the state will have to allocate the money to it in the form of state transfers. This would also contaminate the international, brutally active
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u180	Mr President! Mr Karimäki's speech on the matter of speed: He raised a very good point of view that, although this law is now to be corrected by the error made in 2012, it does not completely eliminate the so-called drag on the poor, who are still charged up to 50% of the interest on the loan. After all, this dates back to the last parliamentary term. You will remember, Karimäki, when we discussed these, and I was in the Committee on Legal Affairs at the time, and it could not be considered acceptable that a person applying for quick levers can receive interest of up to several hundred or a thousand per cent on that quick lever loan. After all, the law changed so that from 2012 onwards, if the loan is less than EUR 2000, the interest rate may not exceed 50 % per year. Well, the quick-jump companies went around it in such a way that they came up with the idea of granting a loan of, say, EUR 5000, out of which the person applying for a quick-jump picked up perhaps just a hundred, two hundred, or five hundred, and thus they were still able to extract huge annual interest rates from them. And now this government reform is in itself the right step in the right direction, but I still believe that this interest rate was allowed to be left too high. There is no need for anyone to receive any 50 percent annual interest rate for exercising such licensed banking activities. Because this is precisely the case for those who are deprived of access to such high-interest short-term loans, because they do not necessarily obtain that credit from the bank otherwise. In that sense, there is still much work to be done, namely that during the last parliamentary term we talked about the fact that this is not a proper, adequate legislative measure, and yet it was pushed through by the then government. It was promised that the situation would be followed up, and five years had to be followed before this matter could be resolved. Sometimes in this house some good decisions are rather slow, and I would like such common sense to win on issues such as, for example, this positive credit register project and issue, which has been discussed throughout the parliamentary term but has not yet come to an agreement to the extent that it would then have been taken a little further. Not to mention social credit, which should be available to everyone who otherwise does not obtain the credit. However, it is necessary to get the money required for the necessary supplies, such as the repair or replacement of a washing machine. This is very necessary for those who live with little money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u181	We shall now resume the sitting adjourned at 1.07 p.m. The fourth item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. Let us try to get to everyone's questions, and that is why there is only a short time for answers and a short time for questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u182	Social Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u183	Madam President! I got a message yesterday from a worried grandmother. He told me how their whole family lost the Christmas spirit. His son’s application for income was delayed and stopped at the wheel of Kela and the Employment Office. Then tell the kids Santa's not coming until next year, Grandma said. Yes, during this term of government, Finland has taken a worrying path. According to Statistics Finland's recently published statistics on income distribution, inequality among Finns increases with income differentials. This development is particularly acute for families with children and those living alone. During this reign, a lot of decisions have been taken that undermine people’s basic security. Last week, it was decided to maintain index freezes. Prime Minister, does this undisputed income distribution statistics wake up to reflect on the policy pursued during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u184	Madam President! None of us can deny that there are people in Finland who are not doing well. It's obvious. What is gratifying about that income distribution report is that the second largest increase is in the income of those who are in the smallest income category there. The biggest rise has been among those with the highest income, and this is because companies are now doing well, exports are pulling and capital income has grown. It is clear that in such a cyclical situation this will happen. I am particularly glad that the second most and more than the average, the income of the poorest people in Finland increased. Secondly, I am pleased that 120,000 people have been employed during this parliamentary term. The income level of these families has risen by about EUR 1,000 a month.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u185	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u186	Madam President! Too many families with children are nervous this Christmas instead of Santa’s arrival, whether the family’s money is enough for rent, bills, children’s day care and hobby fees. Then I should get gifts, Christmas treats, and travel money for my relatives. The equation is impossible in many families. The knowledge of family financial distress is not new. Exactly one year ago, we asked a mid-term question about the development of inequality. However, the policy line has not changed. Last year, the SDP published its own programme of measures to tackle the poverty of families with children. Among other things, we made investments in free early childhood education, free second stage, debt negotiations and the implementation of the Youth Guarantee. Here are some of the hard Christmas presents that many families would like. Minister Saarikko, are you familiar with the programme to reduce child poverty in the SDP? Is it time that the means we put forward were put in place? For example, tomorrow the House will vote on the indexation of child supplements. Are you prepared to support this motion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u187	Mr President! I know you because it sounds just like the government's list of actions. Mr President! First of all, early childhood education. So I share the concern, representative, with you about the poverty of families with children, which is a prolonged problem in Finland and far too big a question over several years of government. But for the examples you have mentioned: this government has invested a record amount of money in reducing childcare fees and early childhood education fees for the lowest-income families. There are 7,000 new families in this country whose early childhood education is free of charge. Second point. At the beginning of next year, we will increase the lowest amount of maternity, paternity and parental allowances, unlike the previous government, the same government in which your party sat, which in fact cut child supplements in direct terms, not just in relation to indices. You are talking about the sum of less than the euro, which I do not underestimate, but I want to bring a scale to this debate. The income support that emerged in the previous debate and the need for last-time support: Kela transfers also made people visible on low incomes in such a way that the amount of income support has increased to those who are genuinely entitled to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u188	Mr President! I would not like to go to this 'no-no-no' debate this Christmas, but it has to be said that it was during the last period that social security for the most deprived people was increased by EUR 100. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u189	Mr President! I know that, Mr Salonen, you have a long experience and know-how in social work, and I am delighted that you are bringing together economic action in this debate on the well-being of families with children, in which the euro alone does not solve the problem. There are other problems that families wrestle with. That is why this government chose as its core focus the improvement of services so that assistance could be provided in time, with a lower threshold and less bureaucracy, and that services would work together in the same direction. It is absolutely essential to agree with that assessment that there will be no winners and losers in childhood. Services — schools, day-care centres, maternity clinics — and everything other than the family’s livelihood — also affect this. We know that poverty is one risk factor, but it is not the only one, and I am therefore delighted that, in this Chamber, issues relating to mental health have also been discussed, for example, as concerns for families. And yet perhaps the most important thing is to say: employment, employment
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u190	Madam President! A policy of inequality is extremely worrying, and especially at this time of Christmas, we must remember that 150,000 children live in poverty. It is an extremely large number, and this inequality between children is extremely worrying. Last week the government cut the indexes, resulting in 5,000 pensioners falling below the poverty line again. An active model has been discussed here in the Chamber, which has particularly affected the long-term unemployed over the age of 55 and has dropped them into new income traps. This tends to increase participation, loneliness and exclusion in society, and this is especially the way to remember it during Christmas. Last week, when these indices were cut off, I was very much reminded that, after all these cuts, you, Minister Mattila, wished me a merry Christmas, which is of course important, but I would like to see a stronger message on the Christmas tables myself, what concrete steps you will take to prevent inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u191	Madam President! If you mean that my Christmas wish has offended you, I apologize for that. But what is poverty in Finland. Basic income, basic security, is made up, as Minister Saarikko said, of basic services as well as of the benefit system. And the spending limits argument and its decisions can also be read in such a way that we have increased the guarantee pension more than what has happened in index freezing. The rehabilitation allowance for the same young person has been increased and the rehabilitation allowance extended to allow the young person to relax in his rehabilitation. Minimum daily allowances have also been raised, and the SATA Committee, among other things, has been proposing, years ago, that 55 days' allowance be abolished. That is what has been done. The tax burden on the same low incomes has been reduced, which is precisely where incomes are low, as well as, for example, VAT.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u192	Madam President! It does not even have to be Christmas when people need to lacquer those coins and pennies, and this is particularly true for older small pensioners, low-income women, those who have done a heavy day's work but whose pension is too low. I'd like to ask you, good government: How do you view this situation? That pension is pure mathematics: the bigger the income, the higher the pension. And we have plenty of those people with a large pension in Finland. What do you think of the word ‘retirement ceiling’? Should there be one in Finland? Perhaps for the future, next year, with the prospect of elections coming, we could give the new government some food. We have countries with a pension ceiling. Why on earth would that not be possible in Finland? What kind of greetings do you send to those pensioners whose pension income, despite their long career, is even lower than the guarantee pension? What the hell is going on? This is
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u193	Mr President! Wages are not decided by the government, and if you think that your earnings-related pension is a wage-related pension, I cannot answer for that. However, I would like to say that the pension ceiling, its setting, or the index debate in general, will not affect the smallest pensions, national pensions, guaranteed pensions, which have already been raised in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u194	Madam President! Poverty experienced as a child has long shadows. It can be traumatized in many ways, predisposing to mental disorders, depression. That is why poverty in families with children must be reduced in every way, and it is particularly alarming now that the direction taken in Finland, that is to say that poverty in families with children, has passed the poverty rate for the whole population — this became the recent figures of the THL for us yesterday. I would have asked the government: what are you going to do now in the light of this study? At the beginning of the parliamentary term, Prime Minister Sipilä said that the government will decide first and then examine what decisions will follow, but should not this lead to the conclusion that it is important to make an assessment of the effects of income distribution whenever decisions are taken and that Parliament should not be given decisions that increase inequality in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u195	Mr President! Although it somehow seems to me that the debate is repeating itself, I think it is reasonable to point out that there are many mothers and fathers among over 100,000 people who have been employed during this parliamentary term — thanks to good Finnish employers — who are many, many families where the situation has changed for the better, when parents have been able to work secularly after a long period of unemployment, for example. Although it is not right to dig up the old ones, there is just a feeling that it is necessary for me to say this, because you often repeat the claim of cutting child supplements, for example: the last government made a decision that cut child supplements — according to the news I have just seen — by EUR 110 million and by 7.4% even. That it's important to create proportions for things. I do not mean that either of these decisions would have been particularly desirable from the point of view of families with children, but, after all, we cannot build our image of families with children just for the discussion of the euro of transfers, but for the overall survival of families: employment, services and the general climate of society; and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u196	Madam President! This week we have received two Statistics Finland statistics. First, that income inequality has increased, and the next day, the statistics show that low income has increased in Finnish society. These are not laws of nature. It is not a natural law that income inequality increases, but can be influenced by political decisions. Before each budget, the previous Katainen government reduced the income-sharing effect and ensured that income differentials do not increase and poverty decreases. That's what happened. When you look at the actions of this government — index freezes for pensioners, unemployed and families with children, and there is still an active model or cutter for the unemployed — the result has been that low incomes have increased at the same time as the economy has grown. The question now arises when you, Prime Minister Sipilä, are wondering whether there has been too much cutting in this situation where the economy is growing: What was the result of the reflection when I saw you during Christmas, however, continued to freeze the indexes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u197	Mr President! There is now a total lack of an assessment of the impact on employment in the Arhinmäki list. Last season there were 100,000 more unemployed, and this is completely missing from your assessments. During this period, between 115,000 and 120000 people have been employed and their income levels have improved by around EUR 1 000 per month. I also welcome the fact that central government finances, public finances are now in balance and we are able to consider, from a much more balanced point of view, how we can more fairly distribute income in Finland in the future. I also welcome the fact that income disparities have not been torn down, as they have typically been in such a situation when economic growth is high and employment rates have increased significantly in one period. Income differentials have remained broadly the same. As we can see from this same study,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u198	Mr President, värderade talman! I vårt välmående land är nog den ox barnfattigdomen en stor ful fläck. Barnfattigdomen är allra vanligast bland senmförsörjarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u199	Mr President! I agree with the rapporteur that poverty in single-parent families is one of the most important issues for the low-income. That is why the government made a small increase in the child benefits of single parents. With regard to the service reform, perhaps I should like to raise a few points. The service concept known to everyone, the Finnish maternity clinic, expands by the government — and in fact by the longer development that has been accelerated by government support — into family centres, where families with children are connected to the maternity clinic with services carried out by organisations on a low threshold, or the most demanding special care services or, for example, partnership work or speech therapy for a child, for all the special situations that are needed in everyday life. Services therefore form a whole. Another, at least as important, is the fact that the Government's political decisions make family services a whole between education and social work. The same family whose child is a day-care centre or a school student is like the same customer at a maternity clinic and other social services. This is a big change of thinking, from which we are already seeing fine practical examples in the future 18 provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u200	Madam President! The poverty and economic scarcity of families with children are also reflected later in the educational choices of children and young people and in the possible development of exclusion. Surgery in education is still most reflected in children who cannot be supported at home. We in Finnish society have had the equality through education that we have not been able to form an actual class society, because we have guaranteed equal opportunities through the educational path. However, these cuts, which have been made during this government in terms of education and training, particularly vocational training and secondary education, are, for their part, putting this equality of opportunity at risk. I would have liked to ask the minister in question: how are we going to be able to ensure that we have a good and equal educational path in Finnish society in the future, so that no child or young person has any future prospects that depend on the wealth of their parents?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u201	Mr President! Thanks to this good economic development, which has been supported in many ways during this term of government, we are in a situation where it can be said that during this term of government the number of young people not in education and working life has decreased. That is good news from the point of view of prevention of exclusion. Similarly, during this reign it has been possible to increase the participation of children in early childhood education, which prevents further exclusion in many ways. In this Chamber, the fundamental value, equality as the basis for all the development of the education system, is certainly widely shared, and that is why much has been done during this reign to ensure that every child and young person has equal opportunities through our Finnish education system to learn and realise their own dreams of the future, regardless of their family background. Equality grants have been doubled in the budget for basic education, there will be equality grants for the first time in day-care centres, and there will also be educational material supplements and pilots.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u202	And then, Mr. Kiljunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u203	Mr President! Hobbies play a very important role in the child’s life. Children of low-income families do not necessarily have opportunities for hobbies, which is why they can be excluded not only from hobbies but also from the very important social relationships that are generally allowed by hobbies. Social relations, other children and young people, play a vital role in the child’s life and development. We know that the loneliness of children and young people is a difficult and painful thing. Studies show that one in five children and adolescents suffer from loneliness. Loneliness reduces self-confidence, it also increases the risk of emotional problems and may subsequently also lead to exclusion. It is also a question of attitudes, and it is also a question of caring and paying attention to someone else's involvement. I'd like to ask the government: What can we all do about this together? Could we arrange a national project such as the Me too project, which paid special attention?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u204	Let's try to stay in that minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u205	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for a very constructive question and idea. After all, it is true, as you said, that for many, it is not only a leisurely and public healthly important pastime, but it is sometimes an important and perhaps the only, best source of community. This means that cohesion for society as a whole and a meaningful social environment will be made available to everyone if, for example, they do not exist due to family background or other problems. So this idea is a step in the right direction. Anything like this, what we can promote, must be done. We now have a topical next year coming into use with this kind of hobby pass, which is available to everyone. This requires — when I look here, there are also a lot of municipal decision-makers — cooperation between municipalities. We, on behalf of the government and on behalf of the state, offer ourselves a programme that will be available to everyone on the mobile phone, and then the municipalities will introduce it and thereby provide content for it. There is one concrete way that will soon be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u206	And briefly, Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u207	Thank you, Mr President. During this term of government, as Minister Terho said, more and more leisure activities have been introduced into the afternoons of schools, including through the moving school and also through cultural activities. Of course, hobbies play an important role in forming relationships and belonging to a group, and so on. But the loneliness of children and young people is a very painful problem, and professionals tell us in the everyday lives of kindergartens, schools, that the first signs of someone being left out of the group and excluded from the group are already visible in the day care centers. As a result, much can be done in kindergartens and early childhood education to prevent anyone from being tempted later in school. This has also been recognised for the first time in the new early childhood education law that school bullying is already being prevented in kindergartens by teaching friends skills, including everyone in the group, and then there is a really strong need for school bullying from the very first minute. Responsibilities for adults in this work and also involving homes to shoulder the responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u208	And the author of the original question, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u209	Thank you, Madam President. The situation picture is touching. The income distribution statistics are inconsolable, and they are not based on images but are true. And the statistics on income distribution do not change the beautiful speeches that you, ministers, have in turn told us how much you have done, how much has been invested. However, statistics show that inequality in Finland is increasing — and unfortunately. How does it feel to be a citizen? We share the concern about what the statistics tell us and what is happening in the lives of our citizens. They know that when everyday life is tough and difficult. It's not beautiful speeches. It's deeds. The proportion of poor children has passed the poverty rate of the population. Nearly 14 per cent of children live in poor conditions in Finland. I will ask you when you have cut down on subjective day care, among other things, and in so doing, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u210	Mr President! I believe that this is a big issue in which there are quite a variety of life situations. We recognise specific sensitivity points from the light of statistics, such as the single parents mentioned here, or the families with multiple children who are at higher risk of poverty. Surely each government, in turn, has tried to do the best possible work, evaluating for its part what would be the most effective and sensible. I am firmly in favour of the choice that this government chose to focus on family services. The development in which we simply stare at the growing need for child protection, the increased number of detentions, is not a sustainable path, but we know from many good examples of municipalities that things can turn out better if they are addressed in the past. You said that it would not make sense to list good deeds, and it is quite true that none of them individually is the solution; it is the overall effect. Nevertheless, I would like to say, lastly, that I believe that the most important decision of the government from the point of view of income transfers
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u211	Let’s try to stay within a minute and get as many questions and answers as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u212	Next, the Finnish Parliament Group, represented by Meri, please. — Let's try to go through all the groups for Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u213	Merry Christmas, everyone. Mr President! Christmas, it is not only a Christian celebration, it is also a strong celebration of Finnish culture and tradition, and it is expected after a long autumn. For example, the “Angel in Heaven” has been The Finns have been saddened by the news of the last few days, which always repeats from time to time that the removal of Finnish culture and traditions is observed in schools and apparently fear that someone will be offended by angels or the child Jesus in a manger. We have freedom and freedom of religion. Everyone has the right to participate or not participate in the event. But not everyone has to put an end to tradition. I would now like confirmation from the Prime Minister of Finland that schools will continue to have the courage to celebrate Finnish traditions and sing “Angel Heaven”.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u214	I think Secretary Grahn-Laasonen is a minister of the Church.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u215	Thank you, Mr President. As I said yesterday, in schools and kindergartens you can still sing the Angel Heaven, as you have so far. The traditions of Finnish culture and visiting Christmas churches can also be fostered from schools and day-care centres. The National Board of Education has also provided guidelines to schools, stating that it is also important for freedom of religion to have this discussion with homes so that parents are informed in advance and agreed that children who do not want to attend the Christmas church, for example, will then receive another program for the time being and will not have to experience the experiences of outsiders. But this basic point is that the angel in heaven can sing, as in the spring festival also Suvivirre, and Finnish Christmas traditions and the ultimate purpose of Christmas can be brought out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u216	Mr President! I, for my part, would like to confirm that Christmas carols belong to school and Christmas, and Suvivirsi belongs to us in tradition and we still get and have to sing and perform them. I hope that as many Finns as possible will go to the Christmas church themselves this Christmas to listen and sing the most beautiful Christmas songs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u217	That was a clear answer, but does Mr Meri want a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use this partial thumb to thumb this answer, thank you for that. [ The speaker shows his thumb covered in gauze — Laughter] Although the opposition is usually given to the government, the Finnish Parliament Group hopes that Santa will also give the government gifts for next year. True Finns want to wish everyone a peaceful and happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u219	Our ham manager, Minister Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u221	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u222	Madam President! Indeed, Christmas holidays will soon begin in schools where teachers have worked long in the autumn on the ever-decreasing resources and their return to haggling. The burden of teachers has increased and the joy of work has diminished. According to the working conditions barometer, nearly 60 per cent of teachers feel that there is often too much work. The figure has almost doubled from a couple of years earlier, when it was 33 per cent. In many municipalities, the right of teachers to continuing education is not realised. Jobrotation leave is an ever-lower lifeline since its criteria were tightened. Teachers are constantly being put on the shoulders of more responsibilities so that little time is left for the matter itself, for teaching. In all sense, additional responsibility should also mean more resources, but this period has seen the government cut more than ever before. A huge number of teachers are doing their job at the limits of their survival. What does the government intend to do to ensure that teachers are well - being at work and that they do not tire out under stress?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u223	Mr President! I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to the Finns, the best teachers in the world for the past academic year and for the excellent work they have done. As a minister, I had the pleasure of receiving an evaluation of the development of Finnish teacher education, and it stated in fine words that our Finnish pride is precisely in highly educated teachers and high-quality teacher training, and that Finland should continue to hold fast to these strengths in the future. It is closely linked to the fact that teachers have good working conditions and, therefore, the message that teachers feel that the load has increased must be taken very seriously. Two things I will quickly raise: one is continuing training, developing skills, and it must be accessible to every teacher. And the other thing is that the big themes of the coming spring will be how to free teachers more time for teaching. So, through various obligations and others, there has been more paperwork, bureaucracy, which also brings such frustration that you cannot concentrate on the most important thing, and that is why teachers need more time to be taught, and we will return to this during the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u224	Minister! It would help if the school had more resources. Then teachers would have more time, groups would be smaller, there would be time for students. This week in Helsingin Sanomat, a career coach’s opinion paper appeared, in which he stated that he did not know any other professional group whose coping and well-being at work would have been taken care of as badly as teachers. And if teachers get tired, eventually children and young people will also suffer. This cannot continue. Finland's success has always been based on equal education, that everyone is involved. For the first time in the history of this country, education policy has been reversed, from strengthening education to weakening education. Finnish education and research must be raised to the top of the world, and it requires a billion-dollar investment. I ask you, therefore, whether you are prepared this time to make a promise of education, which you will also stick to, that there will be no more cuts in education, but that there will be considerable investment in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u225	Mr President! It is true that the Finnish school world has felt that we have had almost ten weak years in the past. All parties in Parliament have had to save on education and other services, and fortunately, as a result of the actions of this government, we are in a situation at the end of this term of government where more than 110,000 new jobs have been created and the direction of the economy has been reversed in Finland so that, fortunately, it has been possible to make positive decisions in terms of education since the halfway point. This is very important, because it is precisely in view of, for example, these educational reforms that have taken place throughout this period at all levels of education that we must now be able to support their implementation even more strongly so that teachers can develop their own skills and support for renewal in everyday life, so that they do not feel left alone in the midst of these big issues. But you can say that in many ways the Finnish education system takes strong steps, not backwards, but forwards, with these reforms,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u226	Next, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u227	Madam President! Finns who live in the area of the Caruna electricity network have felt heavily in their wallets, which means selling a natural monopoly to foreign investors. Five years ago the Left Alliance and the Minister Mr Arhinmäki was left alone in the Committee of Ministers to oppose this blow of the century, which is now being paid dearly. On top of that, the government is now making a new carunat when it plans to launch a competition for Virve. Virve enables authorities to cooperate both in daily work and in crisis situations. I would now like to ask how the government intends to ensure that there is no new private vending machines here at the expense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u228	Madam President! Many authorities, such as the police and rescue, need wireless, broadband communication in their work for communication and communication. More is needed to move real-time video. The broad-based preparation of a future public authority communication solution has shown that the best way to organise public authorities’ communications services is through the use of existing commercial networks. The Finnish State’s wholly-owned separate networks are competitive about the use, and this means in practice that an agreement will be created. We're not outsourcing, we're not moving ownership. At the same time as this agreement is being drawn up, it also requires a commercial telecommunications company to strengthen and expand its own network, while at the same time benefiting citizens and businesses in a larger country-wide area. In other words, this is a very different solution, and competition can also keep the price under control in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u229	Madam President! While Caruna’s electricity transmission market share is around 20 %, However, there is talk of a national system for Virve. Now I hope we're not doing the wrong thing that was done with Digita. Great investment is needed so that Virve can really reach every authority and be part of every cape and bow. This inevitably raises the question of whether an uncontrolled situation is given to pricing. A natural monopoly should not be turned into a vending machine; this should be taken for granted. I would now like to ask whether Digita's adventure is being repeated here and what kind of costs are to be expected, and what is the risk to privacy and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u230	Madam President! No, this is not a repetition of the same type of solution. In other words, as I said earlier in my reply, there is no transfer of ownership, but the ownership will remain with the Finnish State through the Finnish Separate Networks, but it is also very likely that we will not be able to invest in the fast service required by the authorities alone at the moment, or it will take a very long time. This solution, which combines commercial and public activities but keeps ownership on the public side and ensures that we have good conditions and good legislation, which Parliament has adopted, is also able to ensure that the service is widely comprehensive, requires certain investments and also ensures that public authorities have a privileged interest in this use when network capacity is provided. This is a solution that enables our authorities to access real-time mobile services quickly and thus also create
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u231	Next question, Swedish Parliament Group, representative Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u232	Värderade fru talman! Inte bara så rai inför jul, utan också antars skulle det vara viktigt att alla skulle drunka sig delaktiga i vårt samhalle, i vårt goda land. Det gäller också vår ursprungsbefolkning, samerna. Senaste period var vi fem före att Ratificera ILO 169-conventionen. Men ärendet blev brodlagt och har nu legat på regeringens brod under hela den raus valperioden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u233	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, efforts have been made to take forward a number of issues related to the Sami people. The last time, for example, the reform process of the Sámi District Act progressed, where even the representatives of the lawyers involved in the project already approved the proposal in the working group, but at the end of the day, the Sámi Chambers did not approve the proposal. That is what I am somewhat disappointed about; we would have made progress on that. The agreement referred to by the questioner is in Parliament, it has been left here in the last parliamentary term, and there has been no support in this House for it to move forward in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u234	Mr President! It is sad to hear that there is no political will to move this issue forward. We must remember that the Sámi are the only indigenous people in Europe and this ILO agreement has already been ratified by 22 countries, including Norway and Denmark. It is a wonderful situation that we cannot move forward on this important issue. A great deal of work was done during the previous reign. So now it's just a matter of political will. How do you intend, Mr Government, to restore the Sámi feeling that we Finns also care about the rights of the Sámi as an indigenous people and that we also cherish the future of their children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u235	Mr President! The rights of indigenous peoples are constantly being safeguarded, and the reformed legislation, including in the context of the regional reform, safeguards the rights and services of the Sami people. There the new province of Lapland will have to take into account the rights of the Sami people in all contexts. And the new Sámi Language Act will ensure that these linguistic rights will be fulfilled. This agreement, mentioned by the questioner, must be familiar because, on the basis of a proposal made by the questioner during the last parliamentary term, the project was brought here. But it did not come through Parliament during the last parliamentary term, and, unfortunately, there does not seem to be any support for this agreement either. But the work of the Sámi continues, and there is constant dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u236	The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group, Mr Östman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u237	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group thanks the Prime Minister, the Minister for Education, the Minister for Agriculture for excellent answers about traditional Christmas celebrations: children are allowed to sing the angel's song and we are allowed to eat Christmas ham. But the fact is that it is estimated that one out of ten pig farms will stop this year. Some of the farms affected by financial distress have started to compensate for their financial shortages by means of quick levers. And now the quantities of pork are well below what is eaten in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u238	Mr President! This question by Mr Östman on the subject, and the statement that we have even had to resort to speed levers, shows how miserable, even desperate, is the situation in some farms, farmers, food producers in this country. This is something which, of course, cannot continue. The key solution also came in your question, namely that we make the market work better, in a fairer way. The government has taken a number of different measures which have not yet been taken in full: the issue of origin marking, the purchase obligations, the type of procurement, the criteria by which the public sector acquires its food, the food market law, which yesterday was also complemented by the directive in question, and so on. We have organised more round tables throughout the industry to ensure that the rules of the game are more fair there. I believe that these will produce results, but they have not yet produced them. Promoting exports is also one thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u239	Mr President! It is not right that domestic production should compete under the same conditions with food imported from abroad, which has been grown with much more plant protection products, antibiotics, and where animal welfare is much worse than ours. It is already clear that no improvement in the profitability of agriculture is expected in the next EU budget. Farmers would like to see a better future. They would like to hear the message of hope just before Christmas. My question to the Minister is: what measures does the government intend to take to improve the profitability of food production, especially in the short term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u240	Mr President! As has been said, the situation is serious, and it is serious for the future. It is essential that we get a message to the new young people who are engaged in this sector, the food industry, farming, agriculture and want to practice that this is definitely the future. When we take care of sustainability, it was, as the questioner mentioned, animal welfare, it was the use of antibiotics or pesticides, it was the environmental care, it was the use of Finnish food, it was the production of Finnish food is an ecological act, a sustainable act. This is the message we are all sure to send to Finnish food producers. What we did yesterday in that budget feedback debate on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry tells us of the unity that we have. And, yes, I seriously appeal to the food suppliers on the public side: use those criteria to make this fair market a reality. Do not buy, do not purchase products that do not meet the criteria that we ourselves set for our own food producers. And to trade I say again: as the strongest player in the food chain, you have the greatest responsibility — absolutely. And we politicians, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u241	One question per group for the groups of government parties. — The Central Parliamentary Group, represented by Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u242	Mr President! Hopefully, during the holidays, everyone will have the opportunity to stop, calm down, enjoy good food, drink and companionship, and remember those who have been granted less. From the point of view of the economy, employment and the environment, we encourage everyone to enjoy domestic food and to favour domestic products and operators, whether they are food, drink, services or goods, in their possible gift shopping. Mr President! My question to the government is: what has the government done to ensure that as many domestic products as possible are available from the production, processing, transport and trade of raw materials, each part of the chain receives their fair share and price?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u243	Mr President! The question is also justified in the sense that if you start with this international connection, you should remember that there are still a large number of people in this world who do not get enough food a day. The role of children in this is increasing, particularly, and it is heartbreaking and shows that the international community must also do much more in terms of food security than it is today. That is why it is very good that the government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, has proposed measures that the European Union could take, for example, on the African continent in order to make this matter better. And that is what we are prepared to do, and we must be prepared to shoulder our own responsibilities. But it does not reduce the need for us to do everything we can here in the country to ensure that our responsibility for our own food production is fulfilled. Just now, I've listed the actions we've been doing. Let me add a few more things: in the budget, we brought a pot of over 80 million euros,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u244	Question by the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, Mr. Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u245	Mr President! Sexual crimes against minors in Oulu have shocked the security of many Finns. The proportion of foreigners of rape offences committed in Finland is high: it is much higher than the relative proportion of foreigners in the population. About 30 percent of rape crimes are committed by a foreigner. These crimes must be tackled more vigorously, because if you do not comply with the rules, you do not deserve to be protected. However, the target country does not always agree to take on criminals. This is the situation with Iraq, for example. The return agreements have been tangled. I would now like to ask you, Foreign Minister Soini: what progress has been made in the negotiations with Iraq, especially now that, among other things, an embassy is planned to be set up in Baghdad?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u246	Madam President! It is important that it is made very clear to the Iraqis and to everyone else that those who cannot or cannot have asylum here must return to their country of origin. A few reading facts: In due course, 21,500 Iraqi asylum seekers arrived. Of them, 3,200 have returned voluntarily, 6300 have received a residence permit, 5,100 have gone to reception centres, 6400 have left either Europe or Iraq — no one really knows — and then 700 have been returned as if they were forced back. So a lot has been done and more needs to be done. It is important to note that Iraq is not a bilateral partner for Finland's development cooperation, but the funding we give to Iraq goes through international organisations, through the UN, through the World Bank. That is why it is important that we open an embassy there and, through this, we are much better able to take these matters forward. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u247	A blue parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u248	Mr President! Four years ago, the government started in a very difficult situation: Finland was in recession for the eighth year. Over the four years, government debt has been halted and employment has increased. This week, the Ministry of Finance said that the dependency ratio will deteriorate in the future, as forecasts suggest that in the coming years there will be fewer taxpayers. There are always fewer working-age people per old age. That's what I'm talking about. This makes it even more difficult to manage the treasury. Surprising opportunity to shorten debt seems to be a rare treat in the future. It is difficult to make permanent repairs to the economy. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: what is the situation waiting for the starting government next year, taking into account the sustainability gap?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u249	Mr President! The situation in the starting government is much better than when this government started, that is, four years ago, as you described in your question. There were seven very bad years in the economy, nearly 100 billion in debt. During this term of government, debt has been brought to an end and, above all, a good, strong economic growth, a good development of employment. We are now in a situation where budgetary and central government finances are in balance this year, but as early as next year indebtedness will continue with these growth rates. When you go to the 20th century, then this ageing will really start to work, in the middle of the 20th century. If the employment rate is not significantly increased, to 75 and upwards, the risk of deleveraging will explode. That is why it is necessary for the next government to pursue a rigorous fiscal policy and a determined, good employment policy, to take the lead in this government: the next 100,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u250	There's one more joker question left. Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u251	Mr President! As Christmas approaches, important messages have reached the ears of the opposition all over Finland. One of them reads in this way: ‘I have done a long career as an entrepreneur in the service and logistics sector. I'm an aged white-bearded man from Lapland, North Pole. We have fair universally binding collective agreements, within which local agreements have always been successful. We've taken care of things well and in good spirits. For a long time, we have grown and internationalised.” Mr President! I will not reveal the sender, but I think that this message can even hear the message of Christmas and the good advice: reconciliation and cooperation, it is worth it. Prime Minister Sipilä, do you hear the message of this white-bearded man in the same way as I do and are you prepared to promote fair agreement and cooperation in your government next year as well as you can? That would be nice and right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u252	Mr President! Yes, I am, and I thank the eight parliamentary groups, the parliamentary party, for the fact that today we have demonstrated in practice that we are able to agree on even difficult issues. Indeed, today we have jointly outlined climate policy for the next parliamentary term and, in particular, for the Finnish Presidency. Thank you to all the groups for that, this was an excellent job. I have already received my Christmas present here, in the form of this cooperation. I wish every Member of Parliament, the Bureau, the President a very peaceful and merry Christmas. Eat domestic food, spend time with your family, and remember, everyone, at least as lonely and close.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u253	And then what about Congressman Rinne?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u254	Thank you, Mr President. I share your wish for Christmas for all Finns, and I would also like to wish the government a peaceful and peaceful Christmas. Then in January, we'll go back to fighting for the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u255	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 6th item of the agenda. Congressman Tölli, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u256	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank everyone involved in this work. This shows that it is worth preparing important issues in parliamentary terms, as is the case with this whole set of intelligence legislation. This is a very important entity for our society and for the security of our society. Now we are going to accept this monitoring part, but the actual substance laws, the Civil Intelligence Act and the Military Intelligence Act, are still working on the committees, but we hope and believe that they will be here for discussion shortly after the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u257	Madam President! It is important that there has been extensive parliamentary cooperation in the preparation of intelligence laws and that many of the concerns which many of us have had in connection with this package of laws, and which have also been expressed about civil society, have been dispelled over the years. Finland is now coming to a law on intelligence, which is one of the most stringent and strongly based on the rule of law in the Western countries. This is a good thing. It is also important that, as far as I know, consensus has been found in Parliament. I understand that, at least for the time being, there is agreement on how to organise intelligence control. It is important for the Committee on Intelligence to have all the information possible, it is important for the Intelligence Supervisor to have a broad mandate to act, and it is important for the protection police to be subject to parliamentary control, and it is also important that there is mutual trust between the various actors involved, because we are faced with issues of fundamental importance for national security. I would also like, on behalf of the Green Group in Parliament, to thank the other parliamentary parties for making it possible for you to cooperate well on this issue: the committees have been very much familiar with this and the parliamentary working groups have done important research. Special thanks to Mr Töll for his persistence and for seeking creative solutions even when the sweat has come to the surface that we are going to get out of this whole thing. The feedback that is currently coming from the civil society side, at least as far as the intelligence laws are concerned, is largely positive. It seems that there is a broad understanding of our work here, and this is important. At the same time, it has also been important for us to dispel the notions that have existed along the way, for example, about how intelligence laws affect the lives of ordinary people. After all, they have virtually no effect. It is a question of doing and focusing on public authority work on issues of absolute importance to national security. This is important. I also believe that we have learned from the mistakes made by many other countries, can we even say, in relation to the preparation of intelligence laws. Some countries have sometimes gone too far in restricting civil society or increasing the authority of the authorities, and it is something that has been taken into account in this preparation. I believe that these intelligence laws will increase the security of Finland, they will increase the conditions for cooperation between the authorities in a positive sense and they will continue to safeguard a free and open society. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u258	Madam President! At second reading here in Parliament, we now have a law on intelligence control, which in practice means that we are setting up an intelligence officer, such an authority which will then be responsible for monitoring the use of these new, future intelligence laws by the authorities — the military authorities and then the protection police — in civilian intelligence. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which I myself am a member, has produced a unanimous report on this, which is of the utmost value, that in such a matter at the heart of national security, the rule of law and democracy we have a parliamentary consensus and a common vision. It's a very valuable thing. Mr President! We are now, in particular, in the process of creating a civilian intelligence system, building quite large gaps in the protection of citizens' private lives, and when such gaps are made in the rule of law, building a credible, strong control is a prerequisite for such legislation to be needed. President! I think Finland needs intelligence laws. We are lagging behind in relation to other European countries, such as our neighbour Sweden, and yes, an open society must have the right to defend itself. However, this is always a bit of a gold-platform underlaying exercise when it comes to restricting fundamental rights of fundamental quality. There can be no uncontrolled power in a democratic rule of law, and that is why we will have a very strong system of control over the supervision of our intelligence agencies, a very strong system of control, and this report and the draft law will now come to this authority, which may be involved in court proceedings, for example, when these permits for intelligence are given. Mr President! I think it is very important for us to be able to make enquiries on the information networks, not least because we know whether, for example, foreign powers are operating there. It helps our data protection, data protection for citizens and businesses. President! I would like to finish by thanking in particular the Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Tapani. This parliamentary monitoring group for intelligence law has been led by Mrs Töll and Mrs Lapintie, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who has also played an important role in this. Thank you are always to be expressed when they are to be expressed, and in politics too rarely thanks are given. These have been truly patriotic, great deeds from all, but especially from these two influences.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u259	Mr President! Unsupervised official activities should not exist and should not exist. This is what we have learned and had to see in a special way in connection with the activities of the Helsinki Narcotics Police, especially the problems currently being dealt with in court. When the powers of the authorities are increased, the controls must also be robust, and I think that in this legislative package that really is, in fact, through the strong powers of the Intelligence Supervisor and then, of course, through the Committee on Intelligence. The problem, however, is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also pointed out in its report that these resources of the delegate are not sufficient in the government's proposal. The committee believes that the resources required for monitoring intelligence activities can be even more numerous as the implementation of intelligence progresses, and this must certainly be ensured so that control can then be carried out in practice. Then I would like to raise the point raised in the previous debate, as I recall, in Mr Töll's speech, that it has also been noted during this process that the barrier between internal and external security has been lowered. In this regard, I think it is important that, when the President-in-Office deals with these same issues, the Minister of the Interior would also have a permanent seat in the membership, not only for matters relating to the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u260	Mr President! Of course, as Mr Räsänen said there, the world has changed and traditionally we have relied heavily on civil servants and the administrative machinery and the police, and of course these events of recent years, including this suspension and withdrawal of the Prosecutor General, have been an unfortunate blow, so that they certainly have not improved the image of the judiciary in any way. When trust is lost, it is very difficult to restore it, and it is therefore good that we have sufficient control. However, this new Committee on Intelligence and the Intelligence Commissioner will contribute to this by ensuring that they specifically monitor the authorities and their activities, that there is no illegal or inappropriate monitoring or listening to people there. For this we have at least received feedback from myself and the Group of the Finns Party that people have thought that we are now going to have to look at them in some way, and that is why we have carefully dealt with the accuracy and accuracy of these laws and the fact that they can be monitored. There was even intense public debate about the appointment of committee members and the way in which they are elected and their backgrounds are clarified, because it is quite clear that, if we have an inquiry going on and a very delicate situation, for example, there will be no spill-out of situations such as this inquiry object in some way guess that he is being questioned and that people will no longer be caught. I believe that in the parliamentary group, in the Constitutional Committee and then among the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, the means were found for that and for the problems that initially existed. When it was initially thought that information about these background reports had gone to the President, we have some speakers and even now a good President, but in the end we are all just politicians and we cannot always be sure that this information will not spread. However, if a matter is taken to the press, there are very strong source shields and it may be that the whole credibility of a person has gone from false rumours. A very good solution was found in me to let the person first know whether something was there or not. I and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also have concerns about the resources of the District Court and then this office of the Intelligence Commissioner. We must now see to it that it is not just a matter of words, because when more tasks come, they must also be able to be carried out, and control without sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u261	Mr President! As such, we would have needed these intelligence laws in some form for a decade, if not longer, because Russia has changed and terrorism has risen in the world. There would have been a clear need for this, and this period was now urgently approved. For my part, I would also like to thank the parliamentary approach used to deal with these intelligence laws. I have been in those groups since the early stages and until the end. This special law on intelligence control, which is now under discussion, is not provided for by this Parliament, but only in the coming periods. The world and the political situation can change, and on this kind of legislation, if this control is discussed, must also take time and changes. At one point, I was a little concerned that the debate on the clarification of the background of the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control was somewhat politicised by a number of prominent, populist statements and even confidential information leaked to the public. Fortunately, however, we have now reached such a good consensus solution, which I believe everyone can be satisfied with. I hope that other concerns about individual protection, which are included in these laws, will also be resolved in the context of substance laws in the committees under a similar consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u262	Mr President! We are at the end of quite a long journey when the legislative proposals for monitoring intelligence legislation are being discussed here. The preparation of the matter began during the last period, when it was then stated at some point that there was a need for a constitutional amendment, and so the whole preparation and implementation of the legislation moved into this parliamentary term — first the constitutional amendment, and now the actual laws are in the committees and the control laws are in this crucial reading. When you think about the different edges of the intelligence laws, the background to the adoption of the intelligence laws was that Finland is subject to an inquiry, which Finland does not observe or obtain information on except through an inquiry conducted by a neighbouring country. We were told from Sweden that our Foreign Office had been broken into and, of course, it startled us and certainly accelerated the process of regulating intelligence laws. On the other hand, there is also the other side on which there is much information. In the United States, Edward Snowden, a person frequently tested for intelligence and security services, ended up revealing and leaking secrets from which it became apparent that the U.S. intelligence activity was immensely extensive. In other words, this other edge was also revealed as an intolerable one for the Finnish Constitution, and now a solution has been sought. So it is up to us to promote national security, but at the same time to ensure that privacy is protected as far as possible. I believe that this legislation, which we are now in the process of graduating, will achieve quite well both objectives. Much has been said about this role of the Committee on Intelligence and the role of individuals in it. I believe that what will be crucial will be the active role that the Committee on Intelligence and its members will play when action is actually taken. Finally, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Lapintie, who has been skilful, decisive but flexible in taking the work forward there, and I would like to reiterate what I said earlier: I appreciate the work that the representative has done. Mr Tölli worked in the coordination group and in the parliamentary monitoring group. We've done a great job together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u263	Madam President! Actually, a few words about this process. I would also like to pay tribute, perhaps separately now, not to name all those who have contributed to this work, but to name Mr Töll and Mr Töll in committee and Mr Töll in this parliamentary follow-up work. You have done a good job of ensuring that Parliament's power, its role in these matters, when a new institution, a new committee, a new intelligence organisation, is set up. The Board of Directors makes a presentation, prepares and so on, but the final result and the goal will come together with the entire Parliament. The result is a common one. It is extremely important that supervisors, in this case the authorities, have their supervisors, and the guardian is the Finnish Parliament and the elected representatives of its people. It has always been important for us social democrats to keep on pointing out that the powers of the authorities, which are increasing here, are well balanced with the fundamental rights of citizens, for example in the area of communications secrecy. However, I would remind you that the actual committee work is still in progress in the substance committees, the administrative committee and the defence committee. There are still plenty of details to be made together, details to be done together, perhaps even some corrections, but two big things, the question of the order of the constitution and now this question of control, have been finely dealt with together. It is also important to bear in mind that, although the Committee on Intelligence is now going to monitor the activities of intelligence, the whole work of the protection police will continue to be carried out by Parliament, certain committees, a task of supervision with regard to our authorities, police authorities, security authorities, and we will have to think carefully in the future about how to coordinate, for example, the supervisory responsibility of the Administrative Committee for the protection police and the police and, at the same time, the task of the Intelligence Committee itself. I would like to emphasise in particular the resource issues in this draft law, which have also been discussed here. In order for the committee itself and the intelligence officer to be able to carry out this important task of monitoring, this controller must have sufficient resources. The resources now included in the bill are not going to be sufficient, in my view, as a result of the consultation. If you compare the resources of the Data Protection Supervisor with these resources for intelligence supervision, then the balance of resources is the place of the question mark. We do not yet have precise information on how much this monitoring task will be carried out by the Intelligence Commissioner, but it is quite clear when we start from zero to zero this new task, that we must ensure from the outset that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u264	Mr President! It is quite clear that in Finland we need up-to-date intelligence legislation so that our security authorities can carry out the task for which they are, namely to guarantee our safety. It is quite clear that, at the same time as new powers of action are being given to the authorities, we will then also see to it that the powers of action that we are dealing with today are being monitored. These issues — the powers of action and control and also parliamentary control coupled with it — really go hand in hand. It has actually been great to see how, since these government proposals came to Parliament and the work started here in Parliament, parliamentary cooperation has been able to bring this vast package of issues forward with one voice. It is a great example that even in today's world, in which many other countries it is very difficult to find parliamentary consensus, we in Finland can, however, seek common solutions, compromise and then refine this whole so that we can move forward with it and get it fixed in time. Of course, I agree with the thanks that have been given to many of the various players in this debate. Mr President! Perhaps a few more ideas on the whole of control, as several Members have already said. It is indeed the case that, when this control system is going to work properly, we must guarantee this resource side, to which Mr Kari has just referred. However, once it has become clear that these current resources are not yet fully capable of carrying out the task, it is also good for the groups that this can continue to be done in cooperation so that the resources of the supervisors, both in terms of parliamentary control and also in relation to the Intelligence Supervisor, have been carried out in order to make them credible in carrying out their duties. Then the second whole, which relates to control in relation to the new Committee on Control, is the fact that there must be a 100 % confidence among the representatives of that committee that this matter can be dealt with, so that the committee also receives all the information it needs to carry out its duties. However, it is very important that in that point of the Rules of Procedure — when it is adopted — we state that the election of members of this committee of control is a matter for the whole Parliament, not just for individual groups. There is a need for cooperation, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u265	Madam President! There have been many fears about telecommunications intelligence during this process, as Mr Meri described earlier, and precisely for the sake of privacy, which is indeed an important value. However, telecommunications intelligence is behind a lot of thresholds in this proposal. It can only be used on the basis of a serious threat to national security, i.e. it would not be against any crime, but against very serious threats. And as a condition for a non-state actor, it is a necessity, i.e. the method of intelligence is always used as a last resort when there is no other way to resolve the threat, and the use still requires the permission of the court. In my opinion, it can be said very convincingly and strongly to the public that the authorities are not interested and have neither the powers nor the resources to pry through the communication of ordinary citizens, so that is not what this whole package of legislation is going to do. And, of course, it is also important that this is accompanied by this strong element of control, the resources of which must be provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u266	Madam President! It is really great that we are finally at this stage and that we are getting up-to-date and modern intelligence legislation in Finland. After all, we have been on the way back to all the control countries, and it has been rather unfortunate that Swedish intelligence, among other things, has had to provide us with information so that we have been able to deal with cases of espionage. I have now been Vice-President of this Parliamentary Monitoring Group for three years and I can say that the representative: Tölli has pulled this group very nicely, and to him all thanks for the work he has done. All in all, this work has been very unanimous and very constructive, and it has not been so much data that has been leaked out in the course of the work, which was a good thing. Things could have gotten a little complicated. I would also like to thank the officials. So it is unique how well the officials have been involved in this work and have done everything they can to give us the right idea of things. We have recently had meetings once a week, and this three years has taken a great deal of effort from officials. My colleagues have also been very well involved. I haven't been watching Annika myself. Mr Lapintie has dealt with it there in the Constitutional Committee, but I am sure he has handled it well and the thanks he has received for this have been quite in order. So, what does this mean for Finland? This means that we will have more difficulty in affecting the Finnish elections and, in that sense, we will be able to exercise our democracy more securely. Industrial espionage, which is a very serious matter — it is carried out by many countries towards Finland, that is, indeed many countries, it steals patents, working practices and so on — is also being brought under control. Of course, military intelligence is also very important, because our military authorities have not had the proper tools to handle this sector. That is what has been said quite rightly about the Committee on Intelligence — I do not repeat everything that has been well said here. It was my intention all the time that this should not jeopardise in any way the status of the Member of Parliament, that he should be protected in this process of seeking these members in this Committee on Intelligence, and this aspect is now being realised. [The President knocks ] All in all, it can be said that this is an indication that parliamentary preparation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u267	Madam President! I should like to complete my earlier speech. As has been shown in these previous speeches, our security landscape has changed and it is necessary to react to it, even though there is of course no particular reason for the alammism. Much attention has been paid here to the resources of the Bureau of Intelligence. Several committees have also looked at this issue, and I am sure that we must now ensure that, when action is taken, rapid revisions can be made if necessary. For example, in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, we had a long debate on whether this set of basic resources could be used to move forward or whether we should increase resources already at this point or how we are doing it. We have come to the conclusion that we will see when the action starts, and that is the amount of work that is actually being done. There is no doubt that there will be enough work to do, and it is important that the Intelligence Supervisor's team will be multidisciplinary in that it has expertise in different fields. We must be familiar with the international practices of the intelligence world, we must be familiar with security policy, we must be familiar with police issues, but, on the other hand, we must also have a strong understanding of human rights issues, for example. This is particularly emphasised in the case of international exchanges of information, because Finland will not and will not exchange information with countries that commit violations of human rights that could then be aggravated by our involvement. So here it is important that we keep the flag of the rule of law high. I would also like to remind you in general that when we talk about online intelligence, probably, as Mr Räsänen said in his own speech, for example, the thresholds for using such intelligence are very high and will mean that there will hardly be a particularly great deal of luck in the early stages of these cases. It is, of course, reassuring to all those who have been concerned over the years about whether this will have any effect on the transparency of the Internet or something else. No, it doesn't. And in general, perhaps with the wisdom of this debate, we should all pay attention in politics to how, in future, we will also safeguard people's rights and security in the information networks more effectively. Questions about the use of data are growing, such as business espionage, intangible assets of companies and personal health information of people in the future — a very broad topic that we will certainly be able to discuss. But first, let's get these intelligence laws to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u268	Now, ladies and gentlemen, there are five reservations on the list of speakers: Talvitie, Kari, Multala, Räsänen, Tölli. We will have to stop for a break, and there is one alternative: if you want a debate, a reply, I can admit that. But in that case, if we don't finish this, it's going to be really late tonight, because we have the STM section there. Now I ask your opinion: do you wish to make a reply?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u269	Mr President! I will pay attention to three things. The fact that the tools and powers of our security authorities are up-to-date with this legislation: it is important because since cyber threats our security environment has changed and we have had a situation where our security authorities have not been able to carry out such intelligence as others. Second, control: Even if, in this situation, supervision is now being put in place, it is important that there is a parliamentary agreement on how to do it. As Mr PeV also stressed, it is important that the impact of intelligence legislation and the effectiveness of supervision are monitored in the future. It is also important to pay attention to how the resources are when it is known in the future whether there are more than one case. And to the end, President, thank you: thank you both to the Parliamentary Cooperation Group, Mr Töll, and also to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u270	Madam President! Last February, when the intelligence laws were passed to Parliament and I gave that toilet a group speech from the Socialist Group in Parliament, perhaps a little smiled at our motion that the protection police should come under parliamentary control as a whole. However, it is now being realised and the long-term desire for the protection police as a whole to be subject to parliamentary control, including the desire which has been widely shared in this House. I welcome the fact that the role of parliamentarians was clarified in a clever and ingenious way, so that the public overseer did not take part in the choice of his supervisors, but that a wise and sensible way of acting was found here. I would like to emphasise in particular, and perhaps also underscore with a big mark, that we also need to follow the way in which this whole package of laws is going. As a result, it might also be necessary to write down the follow-up to this law in the context of substance law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u271	Mr President! It is clear that the biggest gap in our security, which unfortunately accelerated and which was only accelerated after we had already had some unfortunate events in Turku, is now in the process of being corrected. It is a good thing that we are finally going to be able to correct not only this intelligence legislation but also, of course, control, because these things must be balanced. I would therefore like to add my thanks to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, perhaps exceptionally, has said that this bill is necessary and appropriate, not only necessary, but also to Mr Töll, who has withdrawn the parliamentary group. In such matters it is very important that we have a broad parliamentary consensus, while, in some way, we also touch the privacy of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u272	Mr President! However, it is perhaps appropriate that the minutes and the cover should also state that the opposition parties should also be commended here. When I have followed the representatives of my own group, for example, who have been very involved in this parliamentary group and in the background debate, Mr Kari and Mr Kantola, I am raising the hat. This certainly proves the old wisdom that opposition can also be influenced, but also the wisdom that in these matters, which are very important for the security of the nation, it is always essential to seek very broad parliamentary cooperation. Here, too, I would like to see a lot of thanks being allocated to recognise the importance of this opposition in this area, because it is certainly not a minor one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u273	Mr President! In my opinion, it has been essential in this preparation of this dossier that there has been no government-oppositional arrangement, but that this has been widely shared. When it comes to such a large package, it is important, as has been pointed out in this debate, to monitor its operation and to be prepared to correct or develop it if necessary. After all, the old truth is that only good is good to develop. It should be observed that what the legislator intended in his legislative act is being fulfilled and that the basic purpose of this whole is being fulfilled. And when there has been a broad consensus in this preparation, I also believe that when there is a need for repair or development, they will also be done by consensus. It's good to move on from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u274	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the proposal for a decision and the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Does Mr Kurvinen wish to make a reply or to leave the floor for the evening?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u275	Mr President! At second reading, we now have the creation of a new committee in connection with this monitoring of intelligence. It is very important that we create such an official, an intelligence officer who performs this oversight, but in a democracy it is also very important that when there are such means available to the government to conduct civilian and military intelligence, then the elected representatives of the people will also then monitor what is happening. I think that is part of democracy. I would like to thank you for the fact that this too has been able to move forward unanimously. We have found a way of ensuring that there are people in that committee who can receive so-called hot information, information that is normally not received by similar committees in other countries, but then the immunity of the MP, including the integrity, remains strong here. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their constructive handling of this proposal as well, and in particular those of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Chairman Annika Lapintie and Member of Parliament, Vice-President Tapani. Tölli, who have played a key role in achieving this and with such a consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u276	Now I also offer Mr Kantola an answer, or will you leave for the evening?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-20-ps-135.u277	Mr President! One more thing I would like to mention in connection with this bill and this process: Whether it's a coincidence or a planned one, but it's been a good thing to see that transparency on the protection police side has increased considerably over the last few years, and just recently the protection police issued a comprehensive report on their findings and activities. This is very valuable. This involves what is valuable for this process, that when, at an early stage in Parliament, there was agreement that the whole protection police would come under this control in this context, the protection police were reacting with nothing against a slight extension of this control from the original proposal. It appears that there has been a very good and confidence-building consensus here that controls are being carried out well and also controls. This is going to be a good whole. I am sure it must be followed up and evaluated, as Mr Kari has pointed out, but the starting point is quite good for successful action.
