ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the Presidency of the Parliament of Kosovo, chaired by President Kadri Vesel, has arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of the Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u2	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. Today, at the very least, we are trying to raise all the questions raised by the opposition groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u3	Mr Eloranta asked a question from the Socialist Group in Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u4	Mr President! My question concerns the well-being of Finnish young people. Every child and young person needs proper life provisions to grow up. These things of life do not always divide evenly. This week we were able to read about the extensive study by THL on the well-being of young people in their 20s who were born in 97. It is a survey similar to that of the depression children born ten years ago in 87 C.E. It's startling that today's 20s have more mental health problems than children in depression. At the same time, custody has almost doubled. This result should stop us in the decision-makers. Minister Saarikko, as Minister for the Family, you are responsible for matters relating to the well-being of families. How do you assess the savings made on children and young people in the light of this new knowledge? Does this justify a reassessment of, for example, the savings in early childhood education, the increase in group sizes and the limitation of the right to day care?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u5	Mr President! It is important that we all have all the best and possible information on well-being and also on the expectations of Finns regarding the use of common funds together, now preparing for the forthcoming elections and making decisions here. This study, to which the representative refers, is a worthy compilation of the National Institute for Health and Welfare in one age group and at the same time one generation of story in Finland. In your question, you paint a picture of the age class of Finnish young people, young adults, quite sad and filled with dark clouds. Let us start with the positive side when I think that we can — fortunately — speak on the subject together longer. According to that study, most of the young and young adults in Finland are doing well. We can enjoy this together. At the same time, however, this will carry out the same type of assessment of the situation as many other health and well-being studies in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u6	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u7	Mr President! The government has put together social and health services for children and families in family centres, and that is a good thing, and thank you for that. However, it is only a fifth of all services for children and families with children. Education and leisure services for all children and young people are missing. The SDP wants to bring together all services for children and families so that they support families from the beginning of pregnancy until the child and the young person have grown up to take responsibility for their future. Child health clinics and early childhood education, schools, student care, youth work and hobbies form one whole in the SDP model. Such learning and well-being centres would naturally reach their growth and development in the natural development environments of each child and young person and family in a timely manner. Mr Saarikko, could you bring together all the services of children, young people and families on a large scale so that they form a genuine and truly effective support network for every Finnish family, child and young person, just like the Icelandic model?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u8	And is Grahn-Laasonen this time, or how do you wish? It doesn't matter who answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u9	Mr President! First of all, thank you for having children and families today as the main topic of Question Time. I believe that the research results from the accumulation of children's and families' ill health will certainly stop and worry us all, even though at the same time this study also drew the bright side, which is that Finland is a good country in very many ways, one of the best countries in the world for children and families. The future perspective on the development of services should be turned from system-oriented to child- and family-oriented services. It has been the idea behind the programme of changes in the services of child and family policy, which has been carried out during this term of government, and in summary it can be said that there has been unprecedented cooperation between education and social services. In other words, the focus of the children's and families' perspective, and building child- and family-oriented services that can bring together important and critical services for families with children, such as developing cooperation between maternity clinics and day care centres, cooperation between schools and social and health services, thus identifying early and timely the need for support and allocating assistance to families with children when it is most urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u10	Mr President! I thought the exclamation mark of the study was the families. Families took on a significant role in the well - being of children, not so much individuals. In particular, all children should be able to offer better opportunities despite their parents' lives and circumstances. It is precisely because of the work situation of parents that the government has removed the possibility of early childhood education from children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u13	Mr President! I think this subject is serious enough and demanding enough for us to try to talk with facts. Representative Salonen, we have not removed the right to early childhood education from anyone. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u15	Mr President! In order to avoid misconception, every Finnish child is entitled to at least 20 hours of pedagogical, high-quality early childhood education and more than necessary if the parents are working
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u18	Mr President! We are talking about the nuclear issue of the nation. It is quite right, as Minister Saarikko also said, that we have the majority of children, almost 80%, feeling well and, in fact, feeling better and better. I remember talking to Professor Matti Rimpela some ten years ago, and Rimpela already said that this was the case. And now the key issue is that this development is going seriously wrong. We now have far too much of the age group to be able to succeed in ever more demanding work and life in general. This study calls for such improvements: the strengthening of school health care, the sensitivity and timeliness of the service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u19	Mr President! Thank you for the important question. What we're going to do and we've done: There was already reference here to family centers. Contrary to what may have been suggested earlier, their essence — the very essence of this whole programme of changes in child and family services — is to look at the life of the child and the family as a whole. The child is a learner, the child is a plaything in a kindergarten. The child is the child of his parents, but he may also be a needer of health services. And what is essential is — and I wake up to the idea that there is a great service system in Finland. Here each government, in turn, has wanted to make improvements, changes, looked to the best interests of the child. But perhaps the problem is that our services do not look in the same direction, always the same child and young and family, and operate in silos, in their own pipes, professionals too alone. And it may be a little difficult to understand and explain what has happened in concrete terms. I could list the number of family centres, an extensive training programme for child welfare professionals, but the essence of this change is that professionals genuinely cooperate and know each other about what they do around the family and the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u20	Mr President! I'm taking the question to children who are a little bigger, early teens and teenagers, but it's up to us all. The biggest change in our work is about these 15-year-olds. Over the past 30 years, we have lost jobs that could be reached by primary school alone. But we have not yet reformed our educational provision and system accordingly, but we continue to accept that a 15-year-old can choose to leave his or her studies there. And no matter how child- or family-centred we are, we do not have the tools to intervene in this, neither the providers of education nor the parents. After all, the solution that has been put forward by a number of researchers, the Economic Policy Review Council, many of the Foundations' representatives, first cautiously and then more vigorously, has been to extend compulsory education to secondary level. I would now like to ask the Minister: in the light of this study, how do you judge this when it really is no longer the children of the recession, but also the children of the rising season who seem to fall into the hands of the same problematics?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u21	Mr President! The goal of the government is that every young person should complete at least a secondary degree and get through it in life. I am not convinced that this is the first or the best thing to have to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u24	Let's try to stay within a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u25	Mr President! Studies showed that up to a third of school - age children suffer from depression. That's really startling information. I'm gonna bring up school bullying. That is the reason for exclusion, one of the reasons. The Finns have proposed the establishment of a school peace ombudsman in municipalities, in small municipalities. This school peace ombudsman, in addition to teachers and principals, would also deal with these cases as an outsider. On Facebook, I did one of these experiments last January. I put my own phone number in there and asked you to let me know if there's any school bullying experience. Facebook just blew up in my hand. Hundreds of answers came — this is a big problem. I would like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen: how do you respond to this proposal by the Finns on the question of a school peace ombudsman?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u26	Mr President! I agree that bullying at school is one of the most difficult problems. Nevertheless, despite all the good work that has been done over the years on the basis of research — school prevention models developed in schools — bullying occurs. We should be able to influence it, and I personally think that preventing bullying is the responsibility of every adult who comes across it. So it is in the school community, including parents, and also the obligation of everyone to intervene, for example, on school trips. Bullying also takes on new forms in social media and so on, and the responsibility of adults is also emphasised in homes. This proposal is worthy of study in itself, and we can go back to it, but what I would like to tell you about is that the new perspective, based on research, is also linked to these very early years in the prevention of bullying at school. The new early childhood education law is for the first time now
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u27	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u28	Madam President! High-quality early childhood education is a highly effective way of improving children's chances of coping with school and preventing exclusion, and therefore the Greens' view is that the equal right of all children to participate in early childhood education, as abolished by the government, should be restored. We also believe that group sizes should be reduced. This has been the wrong direction for the government. The Finnish comprehensive school is well known for its success in international comparisons because we have well-trained teachers, but also because we have high-quality student guidance and student care that takes care of the student as a whole. The Finnish Association of Psychologists has long suggested that a psychological service similar to that currently in student care in primary schools should be included in early childhood education, and I would be interested to hear what Minister Saarikko thinks of this proposal. I think it would be a good way, a good way to prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u29	Mr President! This question arose from this study by THL, which highlighted the growing need for mental health services. I've given it a lot of thought. I am also trying to see the positive side of it, that perhaps the subject of the study is now an age class that is more open and justifiable to speak out and seek help for the most profound of the secrets of the mind or other mental problems, and that is in principle a good thing. The increased use of mental health services does not automatically mean failure. We are not in a position to show, in the light of the research that I know of, clearly increased mental health problems, but also genuinely more of their identification and access to services in these matters. Of course, this figure is also worrying, and early years support is not only related to psychological services but also to parental support. I am therefore very happy,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u30	And one more supplementary question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u31	Mr President! The promise of the welfare state has been that, even if you come from poor or difficult family conditions, education and public services can compensate for the differences arising from people’s backgrounds and also give everyone equal opportunities to build a good life for themselves. The most worrying result of these studies is that it is precisely in this most important role that the Finnish welfare state has failed. In other words, we have not been able to break the cycle of family poverty, but the proportion of families in need of income support had remained almost at the same level during this ten-year period. It is not a question of not knowing what to do — we should invest in preventive services and early support — and that is precisely why it is a question of why the government is not prepared to admit and correct the mistakes that were made at the beginning of the parliamentary term. For example, this funding for equality is allocated to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u32	Mr President! I believe that there is a broad common view in this Chamber of this value base, that equal opportunities are guaranteed for every child regardless of their home background, and this government has taken a number of measures to this end. One of these is doubling the funding for equality in comprehensive school and bringing its instrument to day care centres and early childhood education. The second is to turn the point of view towards increasing the participation rate of early childhood education and the new Act on early childhood education, which strengthens the quality of early childhood education and the primacy of the child’s interests. As with the change in the service system, which will increase cooperation between professionals and build more child-oriented, family-oriented services. The fact is that children come from many backgrounds today, and we need to be able to find ways of helping those families that are most in need of help more precisely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u33	Next question, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u34	President! Climate change is a serious issue; it is one of the most serious issues of our time. That is why our chairman, Jussi Halla-aho, has proposed international climate customs. And for what? Because neither a Finnish worker nor a pensioner can be made to pay for these climate issues anymore, the cost of living and moving must no longer be increased, and because these polluting countries must be held accountable and paid for. Such a country-specific climate customs duty could be introduced first at a very low level and then increased annually in order to obtain steering effects. There are two types: First of all, procurement is directed to countries that pollute little because their products are cheap. On the other hand, all these countries will have to reduce their CO2 emissions. But what is the government's position on this climate customs duty that we are proposing? That was yesterday's opinion from the Committee on the Future, which proposes that the possibility of climate duties be explored at EU level in order to achieve a sustainable global economy. But what is the government's position?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u35	Mr President! It's an important topic. Thank you for that. The pace of climate change is much faster than we thought, and we all together are required more and faster. It is good that different models are being considered, which brings us to the climate issue, to pollution in a sensible and fair way. But as far as this proposal is concerned, that is what I am thinking about, customs issues belong to the European Union, and we must resolve them together there. In my opinion, the real steak and the point is that coal must be priced: global carbon pricing, which then punishes the polluter. And this is what the government has been working for and I myself have been working for, within the framework of the World Bank, the IMF, at the meetings of finance ministers, that is to say, promoting global coal pricing. So the polluter will be punished, and it will lead to a low-emission action on the planet, and it will actually bring about effective global climate action. But it is important that different options are considered, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u36	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u37	President! Global carbon price is a good idea. But as another matter, we must consider the fact that, on the other hand, we must also cultivate our own carbon sink. The forest must be reformed. You have to buy it. You have to beat it, grow it, and treat it. And the real tree species in the well-managed forest adds carbon sinks. Our annual forest growth is 110 million cubic metres per year, and we could beat another 20 million cubic metres more per year. Now that the price of fiberwood is 20 and the price of logs is nearly 70, we need to get that wood to our industry. We've got to get it moving. We need to get the forests in order, the people in the environment, the forests to take care of them, the carbon sink to grow. Then it must be borne in mind that our forest is also the source of many new innovations, such as nanocell, clothing fibers, wood - based fibers. I would like to ask: what is the government's position on growing carbon sinks here in Finland through good forest management?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u39	Madam President! The position of the government is unambiguous. We want to safeguard the development and growth of carbon sinks in forests, as has been the case for a long time. In 60 years we have been able to double the growth of our forests, which at the same time has also doubled the carbon sequestration capacity. At the same time, we also want to replace the use of renewable resources, sustainablely produced, of course, of non-renewable resources, i.e. resources extracted from the ground. As far as new products are concerned, I fully agree with the questioner. They are needed, they are needed, and they have been produced by our research and product development. They're new to industry all the time on the drawing table. We can and must be and we want and the government wants Finland to be the leading forest country in the world. There is a demand for our know-how and, of course, at the same time we keep our own forests growing, diverse and also used in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u40	Mr President! We need to do some climate action. Improving Finland’s competitiveness supports the maintenance of industry in Finland, and it is a climate action. Outside residential centres, the use of a car is in practice necessary for both work, business and school trips. In addition, the price of fuel in sparsely populated Finland is of great importance to transport costs and hence to the prices of products and, in terms of exports, to the competitiveness of our country. True Finns demand lower energy taxes, because this is a clear act of climate change, because it will improve Finland's competitiveness. Is the government prepared to improve Finland's competitiveness, keep the industry in Finland and make it possible to live in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u41	Mr President! Firstly, energy taxes are very important for the maintenance of services in our welfare society, but in this case too, I would like to stress that taxes have a huge guiding role. More and more on the basis of climate and environmental constraints we need to direct the tax burden, to direct, for example, industry towards low-emission or zero-emission energy, to direct taxation so that the energy industry, which produces the necessary electricity for us, is moving more and more from fossil fuels to low-emission and zero-emission energy production. If we have low-emission energy production, we will achieve climate objectives, but we must, of course, take care of our competitiveness. That is why the level of taxation must be reasonable, and overall taxation is what needs to be looked at. I therefore believe that, at the same time, tax policy must move towards it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u42	Mr President! The environmental aspect definitely deserves a very broad focus on decision-making, but at the same time it should be remembered that Finnish industry has been better performing its environmental obligations over the years. For example, emissions of sulphur compounds related to the production volume of our pulp and paper industry decreased by as much as 97 per cent between 1992 and 2017. During the same period, the amount of landfill waste relative to industrial production decreased by 94 per cent and the emissions of particulate matter by 85 per cent. Finnish companies are also pioneers in environmental matters in many other sectors. There has been no such positive development in Asia's fast-growing and industrialising countries, where nature and the environment have been exploited without blurring the conditions of consumption in terms of wages and working conditions. Mr President! How will the government ensure the operating conditions of a relatively clean Finnish industry on a global scale in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u43	There's someone out there who's brave enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u44	Madam Speaker! Brave up. — First of all, we must go into this whole world of ideas. We cannot do so in such a way that, when Finland is a small nation, it will now be the engine in this climate change. We are setting an example. And we have been able to do that by creating jobs through climate change. Finnish cleantech, the Finnish circular economy, Finnish renewable energy, its expertise is valued at the top of the world. I have been on a number of export promotion trips, where many companies have been on the way. Finnish expertise, education, clean-tech and renewable energy issues are of the greatest interest. We are an example to the world, and that is what we must continue to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u45	Mr President! It was nice to hear Minister Orpo explain that taxation should move in the direction of taxing harmful emissions such as climate change, and then we can reduce other taxes with them. It would be very nice if the government had actually done this, but the government has specifically left behind fossil energy subsidies, which are worth more than a billion in next year's budget. But the way in which the EU has really set an example for the world is through emissions trading. It has also been inspired in China. And now I would like to ask when the government has submitted a bill to Parliament on the ban on the use of coal: is the government going to push for an equivalent number of allowances to be removed from the EU emissions trading market when this ban on coal comes into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u46	Minister Tiilikainen is not here — but, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u47	Mr President! Indeed, Tiilikainen, whose jurisdiction this belongs to, is not present. But I also think that Finland is setting an example here, being the first country to totally ban the use of coal in energy production in 2029. And the fact that we replace it with domestic bioenergy seems to me to be a step in the right direction. Finland is an example in the world of bioenergy, circular economy and the development of anti-climate technology. And, for example, when I visited Spain and Portugal a few weeks ago, it was a real pleasure to present it. Only a few per cent of Finnish waste ends up in landfills. Most are still burned, but more and more are used again. We operate in a real circular economy in Finland, and it is good to export this technology to the world, and this constantly brings new jobs to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u48	Mr President! Two years ago I proposed that carbon tariffs should be introduced in the EU for countries outside the Paris climate agreement. At that time, the Minister unfortunately rejected my idea, but I would see that now that this IPCC report has arrived and we know how acute the fight against climate change is, how little time we have, we should now re-evaluate this position and really consider whether these carbon tariffs would be a sensible way of encouraging, for example, the USA and other countries that are not part of the Paris climate agreement. Those countries which do not set a price for coal themselves would have to pay for it at the EU border with a carbon duty, giving coal a price for that imported product at the border. This would encourage countries to price their emissions already in their own country and would pave the way for competition for the Finnish industry, which has again reduced its emissions. Mr President! Finland should be proactive in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u49	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that I think that this situation is really so serious with the accelerated pace of climate change that we need to think openly about all the different options. But in my opinion, carbon tariffs — as I understand them — could lead to barriers to trade, and when we already have a growing protectionism in the world, which is very damaging to an open country such as Finland, I think we should try to think about all these solutions, not even at European level, but at global level and at OECD level, where a common tax policy is being pursued all the time. But I think that the primary direction is what the Finnish Government has promoted, i.e. carbon pricing globally: a global agreement that the whole world commits to, which will set out to price coal in a significant way. It will direct operations, energy production, industrial production, the use of clean energy immediately. I think it would definitely be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u50	Madam President! As we know, Finland's emissions have halved since 90, and even in the last year the decline has been around 5%, which means that in this sense we are the world's leading countries. The possibility of forests making carbon sinks even better is excellent. Today we are having a debate about whether forests can be beaten. My goodness, we have been given such a huge national treasure and, above all, it is everywhere in this country, except for the northernmost Lapland, and growth is rising all the time, and we have opportunities. This afternoon there was an open hearing of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. A scientist at the Natural Resources Agency said that we have 150 million motors on the increase of the theoretical maximum when we do our business right. So we have the potential when we do our job right. I would ask the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry how he takes his stand on this situation when we have the potential and the feeling that all those who advocate the use of forests and new welfare in this country will even be put in a laughing position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u51	Mr President! It is clear that Finland lives in the forest, and while we live in the forest, we also take care of this global responsibility and do the new modern things that forest enables and wood enables in all its uses in the future and even now. That theoretical growth of 150 million cubic metres is possible when we manage our forests as well as we can and our regeneration material is in its top class, as it is at present. There are also many other ways of doing this. From the government we have in many ways encouraged both forest owners and others, professionals, in this direction. With 600,000 Finns who own the forest while we are doing this incentive work, there are 600,000 different ways of managing the forest, which also maintains diversity,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u52	Mr President! It is indeed important that we get a price for coal, and that is why it is also necessary for emissions trading at EU level to work, and that is why we need a shortage of emission allowances and not an abundance. It is therefore appropriate to ask what we are going to do in the future. But there are other economic instruments. The Social Democrats have proposed the introduction of VAT on sustainable development, which would mean that whenever it comes to environmentally sustainable development, then that VAT could be lower, and when it comes to doing and producing harmful things, then that tax could be tougher. For example, a circular economy, sustainable food production, sustainable forestry could be a good tool. How does the government feel about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u53	Madam President! In my previous reply, I said that I believe that taxation of harmful effects, the environment and climate pollution is the best way to collect tax revenue and penalise activities that are detrimental to the environment and the climate. As to the form in which the tax is made, we have a repertoire of different means available. Is it in the area of taxation on electricity, whether VAT is used, these are the means in the hands. However, when we constantly have to reflect on the tax base of the future, then the objectives of the environment and sustainable development will increase to an ever greater and greater value. We are in exactly the same line here, that is, in itself. Now I am not going to say to myself that VAT is the best. But let's pay more taxes on what's bothering us. It guides people in the right direction in their activities and production, and then we will certainly achieve results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u54	Madam President! This global price for coal is really important, because in a certain way it also makes it possible for there to be no more carbon leakage. No one wants protectionism, but there are temporarily different customs duties and tariffs on steel or clothing or cars or anything like that, and one interesting question is whether there has been a genuine debate in the EU countries about whether it is actually a CO2 tax or something like that, so that the EU would show a very modern perspective in not going to traditional products but genuinely taking into account the climate. Has it been negotiated at EU level to have a new model? Another important aspect, of course, is that if we could even get into a carbon dioxide life cycle per product or service, then consumers would genuinely be able to see how much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u55	Mr President! This latter question of having a clearer and more transparent carbon footprint in each product or activity is certainly a starting point for being able to do the right thing. Then the EU and this CO2 tax or carbon tax — I think it is the same thing — is that Finland has been the one who has taken it to these tables. I have pointed out at the table of finance ministers that it is precisely through the taxation of coal damage, for example, that we are able to take effective action across Europe and then take an example to the world as well. We have discussed this with the management of the World Bank and the World Monetary Fund, and they are enthusiastic about the Finnish model. Sitra is doing an excellent job, bringing together the developments that have been made in Finland specifically to combat climate change and the tools we use. The world has a great deal of interest in the Finnish model. We started the coal pricing in the early 1990s, and I think it has done a good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u56	Then we take the remaining questions from the opposition groups in such a way that the question and then the supplementary question are taken. Green Parliamentary Group, represented by Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u57	Mr President! The consent 2018 citizens' initiative gathered 50,000 names today. The initiative to propose a legislative amendment would always involve rape when sex is not based on mutual consent. Under the current law, rape is only involved when violence has been used or threatened against the victim. However, we know that in the case of rape, many victims are frozen and the rapist does not even have to threaten violence. The definition of rape through lack of consent ensures that victims are given the right and everyone’s right to decide their own borders is respected. This is the case in Sweden, and the support for the initiative shows that Finns want the same thing. A bill with the same content was submitted to Parliament in February and was signed by 79 representatives from all parties. Minister Häkkänen, you have already promised in March to clarify the amendment of the law. Now you'd have a chance to act. My question is: are you going to promote a change of law this season?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u58	Mr President! Thank you for a very timely subject. In the last 15 years, a great deal of individual reforms have been carried out to reform the law on sexual offences, and I believe that an overall reform of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code should be carried out in order to ensure that all the pieces are properly structured. This initiative, which is in itself very worthy, is precisely about whether the criminal code should be amended in order to make criminal liability more effective. I am sure that all Members of this House will agree that criminal liability must be carried out as effectively as possible in order to make criminals responsible for their actions. And now it is a question of what is the correct way to write the article so that people can be held accountable. Even at the moment, our criminal code does not mean that there is some way to resist, that is to say, you can also get a conviction, even if the person does not resist. This issue has also been at international level in the debate. We've got 20 years of criminal law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u59	Mr President! I very much hope that the Minister will be able to bring that amendment of the law this season. But next week is the day against violence against women. Violence experienced by women in a relationship is a huge problem in Finland and a major social disgrace. It is estimated that one in three Finnish women experience violence in a close relationship during their lifetime. Resources to stop violence against women are still far too small in Finland. The number of asylum places does not correspond to the recommendations and the real need, even though we are committed to the Istanbul agreement. There are too few shelters and distances are too long. Every year, hundreds of women and children seeking help have to be turned from the doors of shelters. I would ask the minister concerned: what measures does the government intend to take to stop violence against women in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u60	Mr President! There's been a move. I very much welcome Finland's commitment to the Istanbul agreement and, as a result, to the fight against violence against women, which has specifically meant, among other things, an increase in the number of asylum places mentioned and, if I remember correctly, funding for them by 70%. We have significantly increased the number of shelters, and there is still not enough. But the growth has been significant. In addition, in connection with the recent debate and the victims of sexual crimes: We have established a support centre for victims of sexual crimes in connection with several university center hospitals. We have opened a telephone service that has been sadly popular, and the target group is those who are experiencing violence in close relationships. And as one of the most important aspects, perhaps in my opinion, of ratifying this agreement and building a better reality in relation to intimate violence, we have intensified our cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior so that, at the end of this month, we will organise a round table so that, also through the police, we will be more and more courageous in dealing with the situations they face in the field, where there are clearly acts of violence in the homes which are taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u61	Left Alliance Parliamentary Group question, representative Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u62	Madam President! Freedom of opinion and expression and their protection are fundamental elements of a democratic society — including freedom of assembly. The right and opportunity to organise demonstrations and to participate in demonstrations belong to a free society. Now the Ministry of Justice has sent a draft opinion on freedom of assembly. According to the draft, the instructions for organising a demonstration would change so that the police should be notified of the event three days earlier instead of the current six hours. Understandably, this major change has caused widespread concern in civil society and has been seen by leading human rights experts as reducing its fundamental rights and ill-founded. It has been argued that this will ensure that the police are able to operate in demonstrations and in these situations. I would like to ask the government: this is not a response to the police's lack of resources by reducing the fundamental rights of citizens, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u63	Mr President! Freedom of assembly is a constitutional right, as the questioner pointed out here, and the government has a duty and a duty to safeguard the exercise of freedom of assembly. Today, counter-monitions have become more widespread, even some violent phenomena have occurred. We now have a legal obligation to give prior notice of demonstrations where, for example, the police need traffic arrangements or the police in order to ensure that these demonstrators are not disturbed by outsiders, and the six-hour period, which is now, has been seen by the police for too short a period of time so that the police are able to secure the right of all to demonstrate themselves. That is why the law is in the opinion that this advance notification period will be extended, that the police will be able to secure the right of all to demonstrate their minds. What the length of the advance notice period will be, it will not be determined until later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u64	Madam President! Three days seem unreasonably long, and the message to civil society is that it will be made difficult, if not impossible, to organise a spontaneous demonstration. This draft has been sent to the opinion for comment only to six parties and only three weeks have been allowed to reply. Do you, Minister Häkkänen, consider this sufficient to involve civil society, all the organisations that organise peaceful demonstrations, whose activities this has a key role to play in this important debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u65	Mr President! Firstly, spontaneous demonstrations are allowed now and will continue to be permitted. In other words, if you want to demonstrate suddenly on a very fast schedule against the government's policies or against opposition policies, you can do so on a very fast schedule, but it is a matter of giving advance notice if this demonstration takes place in the centre of Helsinki, for example, Mannerheimintie, and there is a clear risk that it will also cause harm to public order. And in this case, the police have a duty to ensure that society is otherwise able to act in an organised manner, that passers-by is not put at risk and that everyone can demonstrate their own mind in peace. Is this time three days or a day or two, it will be resolved later and viewed on the basis of opinions. Opinions have been sent to the Civil Society Advisory Board, which brings together a wide range of organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u66	The Swedish Parliamentary Group is asked a question by Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u67	Mr President, värderade talman! Arbetsmarknaden har diskuterats mycket i den raussalen under den ox valperioden, men det är en aning förvånande att en mycket viktig del av arbetslivet, arbetshälsan, har diskuterats valdigt lite. Vi i svenska folkpartiet har ar ox i salen consecution lyft upp arbetsvälmåendet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u68	Madam President! This is quite true of what the representative raised, namely working conditions, well-being at work, safety at work — and safety at work — is saving not only human capital but also quite clear money. So we are also working on a joint project between STM and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, specifically investing in well-being at work. It has been provided with many different projects, and this well-being at work is certainly in the important focus of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u69	A supplementary question will be taken from the Blue Parliamentary Group, which had a similar question on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u70	Mr President! Today the most important report of the current regime was published. Tuija Oivo and Raija Käästär handed over a study on the situation of the part-time workers and a number of very useful measures to Mr Mattila, Minister of Social Affairs and Health, and Mr Lindström, Minister of Labour. The survey showed that the unemployed are deprived of health services, guidance and rehabilitation. With unemployment and sickness allowance alone, no one increases their ability to work, but with real, tailor-made services. Above all, the question is how we treat people and how we think about their role in this society. All people are valuable, and everyone's work is important. I would like to ask the minister concerned: what is to be done on the basis of the report?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u71	Mr President! Yes, indeed today this report was handed over, which has been very much awaited. It's hard to read, but it's a good thing. We are at 72% of the employment rate, and now, as has been said, the bottoms of the laurel have been scrapped. The means of labour services to address the 75 employment rates are rather limited, and this report therefore highlights the means by which we can intervene. Of course it requires support for social security reform, it requires major reforms to the systems, but the biggest problem here is that the unemployed are often targeted at the wrong services. The aim of this study is to launch a large number of measures, which will also extend to the next term of government. As a measure, I will ask all the parliamentary groups to discuss this matter so that this baton will go from this government to the next government. This is not a government-opposition issue. This must be resolved if we:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u72	Let me ask you one more question. The main question is raised by the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group, Mr Essayah, and by Mr Salolainen, the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u73	Madam President! The UK's EU separation, the Brexit, is regrettable for many people, not least for the Finnish economy, because we know that Britain is one of Finland's largest trading partners. Last year, exports between Britain and Finland amounted to around EUR 2 billion, and there are certainly reflections for many sectors. I would have asked the Prime Minister: How? Finland will ensure that if this Brexit now takes place as a so-called hard brexit, i.e. if no agreement is reached, how will these matters be settled, that in the long term the trade relations between the United Kingdom and Finland will be arranged?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u74	Mr President! The first objective, of course, is that there will be no so-called hard Brexit, and it has made good progress during yesterday's day. So an agreement has been reached on how to conclude a divorce agreement. On 25 October the Council of Europe will meet and, if that agreement is blessed, this process will proceed and the European Parliament will deal with the matter and the British Parliament will do the same. Then, when all these bodies deal with this and the positive result comes, a controlled separation will be achieved. That is, of course, our first objective. But at the same time, we are, of course, preparing for it within the framework of the EU. The EU is responsible for trade agreements, and preparations have already been made for a tough separation and, in the event of a severe separation, we will work together with the EU to ensure that trade continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u75	Madam President! At this turn of the week, EU ambassadors will meet to comment on this Brexit solution, which has now been discussed for a few days. You, Prime Minister, will be travelling in just over a week to present Finland's position on the EU summit. My question is: what questions are you going to highlight in these various appearances and in these issues that arise?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u76	Mr President! There are three important issues in this separation agreement: the question of citizens, the question of payments and the question of Northern Ireland. There is now a consensus on these three issues. But in the same context, we also make a political approach to a new relationship. And in that new relationship, it is extremely important for Finland that the trade relationship remains undisturbed from now on. And perhaps the second most important pillar for Finland is then the continuation of security cooperation in both the area of defence cooperation and the area of internal security. And now that the issues that are important to Finland in the divorce agreement seem to have been resolved, perhaps my questions will then touch on these issues of trade and security in the direction of the future relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u77	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. An hour and a half shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Minister Lindström will present and others will move, please, outside to meet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u78	Mr President! This controversial proposal concerns the person-based ground for dismissal laid down in the Employment Contracts Act. Under the current law, an employer may terminate a contract of employment for a factual and serious reason and as such may constitute a serious breach or failure to fulfil an essential obligation arising out of an employee’s employment relationship. Similarly, a material change in the working conditions of an employee may justify termination of employment in the event that the employee no longer manages his or her duties. When assessing the substance and gravity of the reason, the circumstances of the employee and employer are taken into account in their entirety. Therefore, the assessment of the ground of dismissal is always an overall assessment. This proposal proposes that, in addition to the circumstances of the employee and employer, the overall assessment should take into account the number of employees employed by the employer. The change would emphasise the importance of the employer’s small number of employees in the overall assessment of the grounds for dismissal where the employee’s faulty procedure or change in working conditions has a significant impact on the employer due to the small scale of his activity. This regulation is based on the relatively weaker conditions of the small employer to bear the consequences of the employee’s reprehensible procedure or deterioration in working conditions. The aim of this proposal is to lower the employer's employment threshold. Arbitrary or minor reasons will continue to justify dismissal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u83	All right, well, I'm sure it's time for the debat first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u84	Mr President! The government started to push for the workers of hard-working small businesses to be put in a different position with lower working conditions, and hopefully the process that was seen here during the autumn will be learned in the future. The seed of the dispute that the government sowed caused unrest in the labour market, and hopefully it will be learned from this that in the future Finnish working life will be developed through more harmony than through a dispute. After all, the end result here is that the government actually backed back in practice, and what is left of the bill that is here is that the explanatory statement or report of the draft law is trying to introduce new legislation, as it were. It's never a good situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u89	Madam President! I think it is an excellent thing that this completely over-compensated dispute on the labour market was resolved by reconciliation and that a solution to the labour market was found as a government proposal which ended these political strikes, the legitimacy of which should be called into question more generally. After all, there is an obligation to work at peace, and so we can go on strike if, for example, the government's policy does not please. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u90	Madam President! Here, as in previous chapter 7 of the Employment Contracts Act, is this ‘if the ability to work has been reduced materially’ and I would like Minister Lindström to tell you that what is ‘essentially’? That now, when viewed as an overall assessment of the ability of companies to keep an employee in the company, does this now make it possible for smaller companies to now facilitate dismissal if the older person is no longer able to do the same work rate as before? That if Minister Lindström were to say fairly, does this now mean that older workers will then be put away more easily? The second thing here is that there will be a qualifying period of 90 days if, without valid reason, the employee terminates himself, and 60 days if the employment relationship ends so that the employer terminates. Is that what this is going to lead to in business?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u91	Mr President! This is where Mr Lindtman brought up the hard-working workers in small businesses — of course the hard-working workers, the equally hard-working small entrepreneurs. This is an attempt to find a solution which, in my opinion, should serve both sides. It has now been somewhat forgotten in this debate that I too have received a lot of feedback, and certainly for many, that there are also a lot of workers in small businesses who want this type of legislation because they have experienced the same problems with other workers as that small entrepreneur could have experienced. Legislation has been poor in that it has not been sufficient to take account of the size of the company specifically in a small enterprise. And as Mrs Zyskowicz has pointed out, that is better in the section. However, it is politically necessary to marvel at the work of the Finnish Parliament Group in this regard. Sometimes I understand that they have been pushing for the small entrepreneur's cause, but a clear majority voted against this bill in practice in a vote of confidence, one voted in favour and three were absent and walked into the Chamber after the vote had taken place. In three different pieces, the Finns of Finland broke up in such an important entrepreneurial question!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u92	Mr President! This proposal is less bad than the previous draft of the government that has been made public and it has been modified. However, its core has not changed. In this respect, the Government believes that by facilitating dismissal, employment will be improved. I do not believe in it, nor do I seem to believe very strongly even those scientists who have done research on the government's request. If you look at a joint study by the ministry and business associations, it shows that 30% of small enterprises do not employ because there is no need, 17% do not employ because demand is unstable, 18% say it is the reason for the availability of labour, and so on. The notice threshold is very low. It would be essential to address the availability of labour and the fact that we have skilled labour, and in this the government has acted in the opposite direction. Although it has increased self-training for the unemployed, it has reduced vocational training in labour market policies. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u93	Mr President! The representative, Mr Filatov, listed the surveys of these companies, but I think these numbers meant what the companies consider to be the most important obstacle to employment. Of course, the fact that it is not the most important does not mean that it is not significant. And that 6% of companies are actually quite a number of companies. It is also worth pointing out that more than 100 000 single entrepreneurs have appeared in our labour market, and there is no reason to think that one size of company is somehow particularly good or optimal in terms of productive efficiency, so it does indicate that we clearly have a threshold for employment which is worth trying to reduce with such legislation, and that is what this law will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u94	Mr President! As you look at this performance, you have to wonder why this strange external parliamentary process had to take place at all and how many of these companies were to be vacated. Now this proposal, which we have before us, could have been brought to this Chamber with even less effort, because it was just mentioned: that the size of the company and other circumstances would be taken into account in the event of dismissal. This was precisely the problem that had to be addressed. However, I am a little surprised that we are once again faced with the fact that we are trying to correct by law the fact that we do not think that the courts are actually applying the law correctly with the discretion that they already have. How can this happen over and over again? Is there now a guarantee in these articles that the law will be interpreted correctly and reasonably? That is what I hope the committee will carefully consider in its deliberations, whether this will now have employment effects or whether this proposal is, after all, worth nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u95	Mr President! Normally, the formula for the bill goes so that the objectives are presented first, then the impact assessments explain how this bill takes these objectives forward. This is an exceptional draft law which first sets out the objectives and then explains in the impact assessment that this bill does not take these objectives forward: it does not improve employment, nor does it improve the legal certainty of the small employer, which was the second objective set out in this objective section. The impact on which companies this is directed will not be clear until years have passed when the case-law is confirmed. There is no way to think that such legislation would somehow improve legal certainty. The question is: why is the government making proposals that are not even supposed to meet its objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u96	Mr President! The fact that, both in this Chamber and in the past, this debate has taken place is that people who do not have any kind of experience or, in fact, very much of the idea of employment at the practical level are engaged in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u99	Mr President! I've been an entrepreneur for over six years. I have employed an employee in a small company and I understand that the financial risk that turnover will not increase by its second employee will have an impact on the situation. I have also handled over 800 employment law cases during my career, probably half of which were related to the termination of the employment relationship, and I understand that a small entrepreneur alone is in need of help when he is managing and cleaning. That is why we have proposed a tax reduction of EUR 20000 to facilitate financial risk and, on the other hand, to facilitate legal advice and public legal advice. But I am concerned about the content of this law because it actually states in an existing section of the law and leads to its being reinterpreted by the court from now on. This will create an unclear legal situation until the Supreme Court has built a solution to this, and I do not think that this is a worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u100	Mr President! First of all, I am pleased that this issue is now in this model and that there is also peace in the labour market. But if we look at a slightly bigger picture, when we look at how the number of our employers has evolved, it has not really increased at all from what it was in the 1990s. It went down and stayed the same. The number of self-employed has risen enormously, as Vartiainen said, but the threshold for having an employee is very high. The second thing is that almost all, the overwhelming majority, of new jobs in the private sector are created in small businesses. If that employment potential is not exploited, then we will have no chance of achieving that 75% employment rate. In other words, these are fundamental questions that we are able to moderate the risk of employers, and that is what this is all about, and that has also been the case with the previous reforms that the government has taken forward, and that is why our employment rate has already significantly improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u101	Mr President! Bad but less bad than I used to think it's a pretty good crystallization of this performance. After all, this whole process has been quite a farce when all the changes that the government has made in preparation have actually proved the opposition's criticism to be right. First, we are abandoning this 20-employee border, then we are abandoning the 10-employee limit altogether, and then we are changing the justifications of the law, so that the representatives of the government parties will gradually start talking about the risk of employment and start talking about factors other than this promotion of employment, which was first justified, even though, according to studies and estimates, this will not have any employment-friendly effect. In this regard, Minister Lindström has now presented this amendment to the question of carnage. If there has been any benefit from this debate, it has raised the very problematic toughness practices of Finnish society in public debate. In our view, this should have been reduced considerably more. The Left Alliance has even called for a complete abolition of labour-market sanctions, because it makes no sense to maintain structures in the social security system that are pushing people from social security to income support and which also undermine the labour market from the perspective of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u102	Mr President! I have a few questions for the minister. Firstly, what changes from current practice, because there is an overall assessment today, which takes account of the size of the company, and does this vagueness lead to a future court ruling on what this law really means? I fear that this law, if implemented, will bring uncertainty to the labour market for a long time to come. Moreover, the draft law has the same problems as the original one. The impact on employment is very questionable and the impact assessments are incomplete. And, on the other hand, is it not a little strange that the explanations requested have been given on a different proposal than what this proposal is, and is it not questionable to what extent they can be considered relevant to this bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u103	Mr President! What Mr Satonen said, for example, about this lowering of the pay threshold and the impact of this bill on employment was in itself a beautiful story, but, as has been said here, the objective that is being pursued, that is to say, more employment, and this bill does not respond to it. This bill doesn't answer that question. That is what we have been saying for a long time. After all, the government sometimes introduced the communication in a vote of confidence, saying that only the model presented then would be acceptable. Well, I'm glad someone else is good enough and good enough, but this one doesn't answer that question either. There'd be better ways. But here, Mr President, the current situation is in practice enshrined in the article and the arguments are then modified, and it remains to be seen how the courts will interpret it in future. But you can dispel these fears, Minister of Labour Lindström: What is a reprehensible behaviour that, under the current law, is not sufficient for dismissal
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u104	Mr President! In fact, all these measures have been opposed by the same criteria and have brought an estimated 20 000 to 30,000 jobs in this country. Thank you for finding a deal, reconciliation is always better than fighting. The most important thing now is to work for as many people as possible to get a job. There is work available, and it is very small businesses, and it is good that it is now being encouraged. The SAK, which is close to the left-wing opposition, argued that the length of employment, i.e. in practice the age of the employee, would in future be one of the key factors affecting the order of dismissal. We in the assembly do not accept this kind of discrimination based on the practical age of young workers. And I ask you, Minister of Labour: this is not something the government is in favour of, and it is not the model that the SAK is proposing but is bringing here, is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u105	Madam President! I have to say, it took a long time to wrap this Christmas present and bring it here to Parliament. I would have asked just as specifically in relation to this, what was asked above is that what is now changing: as one part, when these arguments have been read, so... And I must say to Mr Turuse that I have been with him on a few redundancies so that I think I know what I am talking about. But here is this lack of trust, which is now such a new element which is not entirely open to Mrs Myllykoski, at least by reading once. Is it true that a lack of trust is different in a small company than in a big business? Can a lesser lack of trust lead to dismissal in a small company more easily than in a large company? And what is concrete is a lack of trust when, until now, in the event of dismissal, it has meant something concrete.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u106	There's still a few people here who haven't come out yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u107	Madam President! The social dispute that was seen in the assessment and examination of the effects of the previous version of this proposal was, however, disproportionate compared to the impact and seriousness of this and its presentation. It is good that the government has now finally brought this proposal here to the Chamber and for Parliament to decide, and it has been refined for the better. I myself have been an entrepreneur for some 22 years and have employed dozens of people during my career. At the moment, I employ about 20 people, and I can say from my own experience that, yes, there is always one threshold in employment when you think, as an entrepreneur, that what if recruitment goes wrong, how will this employment relationship be terminated and what happens next? And this is a real threshold for an entrepreneur. And it is a good thing that now even a tiny government is trying to make it easier. However, this is a matter where the employment threshold should be reduced further. That is a very serious problem at the moment. There are hundreds of thousands of unemployed and very many job vacancies in the country, and the labour market does not work when the workers and the work do not face up to it, and that is something we must address in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u108	Mr President! During this process, there have actually been a few more central issues that have sparked much debate. Well, the first has to do with the fact that the government is seeking to increase employment with this reform. Well, unfortunately, then, the reports commissioned by the government itself, which, in fact, relate to a different situation, which was then in the spring, do not support this view, so it is probably understandable that questions should be asked whether there might be any other measure that would have a greater impact on this employment which should now be promoted in this situation. Well, then, the second key question is that the same question has been asked throughout this process, so please give us one concrete example of how the situation will change. That what is the concrete example of the reprehensible behaviour which now leads to dismissal on the basis of this legislation? One example has not come during the whole process, so let's say it's something.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u109	Mr President! I am very pleased that Minister Lindström has stuck to his decision and has now brought the improved version of this proposal to this House for discussion. After all, the objective is to reduce the threshold for employment by taking more account of the number of employees when assessing the fulfilment of the grounds for dismissal. I would like to draw attention, among other things, to the list set out by Mr Filatov in that regard of what are the main obstacles to employment. He pointed out that only 6% of companies would think that dismissal or employment would be a problem. I would like to remind Mr Filatov and others that, according to statistics, it is making 30,000 companies. In addition, it should be borne in mind that a large number of these issues are directly business-related, such as how demand develops. Here in Parliament, we must focus on the issues that can be influenced by the state. When Mr Rinne raised the starting point for the demarcation, most of the SDP's proposals relate to the proposal for wage subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u110	Mr President! I thank the government for having the courage to complete this process, even though this process was quite painful. This is a change for the better. If one wonders whether there is a need for change and suggests that there were no problems in the current system, then I would like to ask Minister Lindström that, given that we currently have around 350,000 people in Finland in temporary employment, this too is a sign that employers are afraid to hire permanent employees. Of course, much of these are even on the public side, but they are also found on the private side, and if a person is not in a fixed-term employment relationship, there are many people who are also in employment through various employment rental companies. Could the Minister still open up what hides behind these statistics?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u111	This is the second time that has been asked to speak, but let me say that I will list these people who are still speaking here, that is to say the debate, then the Minister will reply, and then we will go to that list of speakers, Mr Kontula: Mr Vartiainen, Mr Satonen, Mr Wallinheimo, Mr Filatov and Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u112	Mr President! Let us remember this European reality. Such measures, the relaxation of the protection of dismissals, are part of a perfectly normal European labour market debate, because similar problems affect the labour market in many countries. In Germany, micro-enterprises are not protected from dismissal at all. It has been considered to be a good practice in such a high-employment country. The Social Democrats' representative, Ville Skinner, who knows the labour market very well, made a very similar proposal about a year ago, I think, to what this government proposal is. It was a reasonable discussion, not a cause for disapproval at the time. And to Mr Rinne, I would say that somehow your methods are always in a state purse, and that is basically the wrong approach to the labour market. We must facilitate the creation of employment relationships, not by state money, but by creating such laws that it is worthwhile to enter into employment relationships.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u113	Well, Rinne will answer in between, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u114	Mr President! I would just like to say to Mr Vartiainen that we have not, at least, proposed tax reductions of EUR 1.5 billion, as has the representative. The Vartiainen party has asked this question. The SDP has put forward clear options to facilitate the financial risk associated with the employment threshold for small enterprises. The growth risks of turnover are such that hiring another employee requires some kind of support. The other side is advisory services, which are quite natural for citizens in the context of general legal assistance, i.e. in the context of working life, advice should be built for small companies, because the managing director-cleaner alone cannot manage these matters alone and therefore expert, competent advice is needed. These are expensive lawsuits if there is a false motive and expert legal advice is an extremely sensible way of helping small businesses to employ and reduce the employment threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u116	Mr President! As far as the last speech is concerned, Mr Rinne is not entirely wrong, but all the means he has put forward are always in the taxpayer's pocket. And it has also been the case that — and I think that the Minister of Labour can continue to do so when he asks, as far as I know, the means of these social partners — in general the means proposed by the SAK, for example, are always precisely the means to go into the taxpayer's pocket, that it is like the basic principle. However, I will respond to Mrs Lindtman when she spoke about these employment effects, as you said when she talked about extending the probation period, that it has no impact on employment. At the time when we were talking about making the readmission obligation more flexible, you said that it had no effect on employment. And when it came to the change in unemployment security, you probably said the same thing. The Left Alliance also stated when the Competitiveness Pact was discussed that it has no employment impact either. And now we have an Etla study which shows that 50,000 jobs have come thanks to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u117	Mr President! Just as Mr Satone said earlier, the government has implemented some 80 large and small measures to improve employment, which have clearly had an impact on employment. I believe that much has been said here about the expert opinions which say that this has no impact on employment. On the other hand, entrepreneurs in Finland, for example, talk about 10,000 to 20,000 jobs. Do you not have any appreciation for their opinion on this matter on the left? They're the operator in the field. They know the grass-roots problems that exist there at the moment. I think Mr Kopra said very well that this is a small one, but this could be the very spiritual threshold at which to start hiring. Don't underestimate the entrepreneurs in that field.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u118	Mr President! The main problem with these large and small government employment measures and laws and changes that have come to this Parliament has been that their own impact assessments have not believed in their impact on employment. Often the government’s impact assessments are the biggest and clearest criticisms against those proposals. If the government is unable to justify in its own legislative proposals the way in which this employability comes, then why should it be believed by parliamentarians when we here are dealing with laws? But the big problem with this law is that it mainly employs labour law lawyers. I believe that for that small entrepreneur, the uncertainty of the legislation is the greatest risk — I myself know it when I have been married to one of the entrepreneurs for years. The fact that things change all of a sudden. One of the greatest risks is, of course, that we should go on the wrong grounds to personally lay off people, and the main problem from the point of view of interfering with this legislation is to confuse personal and collective arguments. And when their starting point is quite different, there can be nothing more to it than uncertainty, and uncertainty in business life is the worst.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u119	And then Mr. Elo and then the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u120	Mr President! Mr Andersson said earlier that this version of the proposal is not as bad as the previous one. Of course, this is always a point of view, but apparently this is better than the one before. The questions of faith were also raised here from Mrs. Filatov. You believed for a long time on the left that all the jobs that have now been created were just the result of the global economy's bet, and you probably said that in every Question Time that has been going on here. But now that we believe that this is also thanks to the government, it has become stronger when Etla estimates that half of the government's actions are at least due to it. What has been highlighted here is the effectiveness of this. If you think that the first proposal was 20, then 10, then of course they would have had a clearer legal impact, because there was a clear limit. But you resisted that, too. It is now quite clear, Mr Lindtman, that in case law, of course, this effectiveness will be seen. We don't exactly know that yet. But you are indeed opposed to a model that would have had a clearer legal effect if it had had had that particular worker limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u121	And the Minister's answers, please. Is that enough for five minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Let us start with this basic task: what is the responsibility of the government? According to the Finnish Constitution, the Government is responsible for promoting employment. That means we have to bring performances. I admit that some of these proposals are controversial, that is something we are not going to get away with now; there is no point in proving that. Some are very difficult, some are very difficult to justify. We ourselves have carried out the impact assessments ourselves on this issue and honestly said that there is a place for criticism, that is certainly clear. But then, as has been said many times, when we come to these effects, we are trying to encourage small employers to hire a new workforce. The final effects — how courageously they dare to hire new workers — will then determine what will happen here. I have no crystal ball of which I can say exactly that x number of jobs will be created with this performance. That is absolutely impossible, and I do not believe that anyone even demands it. The essential thing is that employers can consider when assessing the need for additional labour, that when an employee violates his/her own obligations, sufficient account is taken of the weaker chances of a small company to cope with such disturbances. And this section has now been made. The full-scale assessment, when carried out, will be assessed by the number of employees through the consequences of a change in the procedure or working conditions of the worker, and the consequences will then be a deterioration in the functioning of the working community. For example, a small working community is more sensitive to disturbances, and the consequences of an employee’s reprehensible practice can be more easily reflected in the whole work community. If I am now asked here to tell you what kind of situation an exactist can be, then I am not a court of law, I am not able to define these individual cases. Secondly, financial losses: a small employer may be less able to face financial losses caused by the reprehensible behaviour of its employee or by changes in working conditions. Third, a lack of trust: In a small working community, the employer and employee are interdependent and the relationship of trust is essential. Of course, it is also important for a big company, but once again, the survival of a small company is extremely difficult because its person in a big company may be transferred to some other tasks or to another department or so, and it may be that in a small company like this there is no possibility at all. Issues related to the functioning of the work community, financial losses and lack of trust often arise in connection with certain types of dismissal. For example, a failure or breach of an individual employee’s obligation to work or a reprehensible practice towards customers may be more likely to cause significant harm to the activities of a small enterprise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u128	There may then be debatable, but now for a moment on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u129	Mr President! On the basis of the debate so far, I see only two options: either there has been no reading of the Government proposal at the meeting or there is no belief in the government's assessment of the impact of this bill. I hope it is the latter. It would be very unfortunate if a debate were to take place here on a motion that has not been read. The Government's proposal identifies two objectives for this legislative amendment. The first is to improve employment. The impact assessment of the Government’s proposal states that there is no evidence that employment would improve, but of course it is comforted by saying that there is no evidence that employment would deteriorate. Another objective set out in the target section of the government proposal is to improve the legal certainty of the small employer. How will the legal certainty of a small employer improve when we enact a law whose actual effect, according to the law, is said to survive in case law sometime later, perhaps later? If I had a ten-person company and now read this bill and tried to determine whether things would change for me, for my own company, this bill would not tell. There are page-by-page speculations about different options, how this may affect companies that may be less than two persons, or companies with fewer than ten people, or companies with fewer than 20 people, but you can't know that until years later when the case law has been passed. I would call this a weakening legal certainty, not a strengthening legal certainty. Well, the impact assessments have also suggested some conjecture about the effects that are not mentioned in the objectives. These include: labour productivity can increase, the uncertainty experienced by employees can increase, the commitment of the partners in the employment relationship may weaken, which may be reflected, among other things, in the fact that small companies no longer want to train their employees as much as they did in the past. But all these impact assessments are presented there as possible side effects, without taking a very strong position in one direction or another, and saying that if there is any change, it is marginal. So, on this basis, the only reasonable question is: why does the government make proposals that are not supposed to meet the objectives of the government? The only clear change in this package is the reduction in the severity of unemployment benefit where dismissal takes place at the initiative of the employer. From a left-wing point of view, this is certainly a good thing against discipline and control policy, and although the government's proposal does not make any impact assessments of this, I personally dare to speculate that it will balance our unemployment insurance system and improve social cohesion. Instead, to the concerns of entrepreneurs, I do not see that this proposal will answer in any way. The concerns of entrepreneurs relate to the low level of knowledge and uncertainty in the process of dismissal, and the answer to this is either to simplify and clarify legislation or, alternatively, to improve advice. In no case will the answer be to further confuse legislation and maintain the status quo. In my life, I have personally employed a number of employees, including those in employment for the time being, including with my own money, and I also understand the risk of this recruitment. There's no doubt about that. But this bill does not change anything about that. Mr President! There have been allegations in the debate that the number of sole entrepreneurs would indicate the existence of a pay threshold. This argument is not correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u130	Mr President! The Government's proposal slightly alters the case law by lowering the threshold for the dismissal of small enterprises. This has been called a weakening in this Chamber, but let us try to deal with this more intellectually. After all, the terms of dismissal or easier dismissal do not necessarily mean weakening or improving — just as little as the fact that the legislator at one time made it easier to get a divorce meant weakening marriages. The fact that people in the economy and in society also have the so-called exit option in a free society, that they can leave marriage or cohabitation or economic partnership with another, is in fact an essential part of the good functioning of our economy and society. It is a force that constantly creates good, because a person — not an employee, but also an entrepreneur — does not necessarily have to have a cooperative relationship that harms him. And in exactly the same way as facilitating divorce only to function on the basis of a statement of intent, the quality of marriage has been raised, because no one is forced to be in an unsatisfactory marriage — this is aimed at the same thing: improving the functioning of the labour market with a slight change in case law. Such marriage analogues tend to laugh in Finland, but they are actually a pretty good way to think about the functioning of the labour market, and economic theory actually does just that. The same mechanisms that allow us to understand that making divorce as difficult as possible is not in anyone's interest are also those that we can understand by thinking about why the strictest possible protection against dismissal is not the best protection for dismissal. The fact that dismissal is impossible or difficult — as the opposition might conclude from these statements — that the stricter the protection against dismissal, the better — well, of course, it does not guarantee the best incentives for a good working relationship, as would not guarantee the other extreme that dismissal is completely cost-free. And when you think about this rationally, you will notice that this is largely well understood. For example, the majority of public high-level posts are fixed-term for this very reason. It is quite clear that, for example, when I was the head of the State Financial Research Centre, the awareness that my office is fixed-term and my performance is assessed every five years was very pleasant in my daily efforts to improve the functioning of the facility. It did not mean that I was living in a climate of fear or that I was afraid of face-tightness, as has been claimed in such a debate, but I knew that the continuity of my employment depended on my own efforts. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to bring about a small change in the possibilities of people-based dismissal for small enterprises. It focuses on micro-enterprises, which is very justified. Large companies have more opportunities to invest people in other kinds of jobs, and an inactive or changed employment relationship is a bigger problem for a micro-enterprise with a smaller number of people sharing these costs. Indeed, the fact that we have created such a huge number of self-employed — 180,000, if I remember correctly — does not make me absolutely sure of this — shows that this threshold is high. There is therefore no reason to think that society and the position of employees are somehow always better than that of individual protection. A well-known international study involving French top mathematicians and econometrics also indicated that workers' confidence in the future is lower in countries with strict protection against dismissal. In other words, from an employee’s point of view, the fact that you can be more easily laid off causes a certain kind of anxiety and is there a fire under your tail, so that you work hard and work hard, but if you are faced with the greater likelihood of getting a job if you have become unemployed, then that is, on the other hand, a liberating society and improving your moods. Well, it is true that economic research has not been able to suggest that this reform will have a significant impact on overall employment, but at the end of the day there will be little such research, because major reforms have not been carried out very much and it is difficult to create a very good trial setting that can be used to investigate these issues. There are theoretical studies on the basis of which one can believe and to some extent I believe that this strict collective agreement regulation, together with strict compulsory general increases, may constitute a threshold for a strong protection against dismissal on the basis of which it is worth thinking that this reform will increase overall employment. We are not sure that the effects can be zero, but the fact that they have not been proved does not mean that they do not exist. It is no surprise that such measures to improve employment are quite a normal part of the labour market toolbox, and, as I said, in Germany, for example, there is no protection for micro-enterprises from dismissal. In addition, we really have evidence, both in theory and in empirical research, that such a reform divides the good of life and the good of employment between people. It makes the position of an employee a little more precarious, i.e. marginally, but it also increases the chances of unemployed people getting a job. In other words, it shares the benefits of insiders, the happiness of those who are at risk of exclusion and who are currently not on the labour market. Social science research as such is always uncertain, we do not have any definite effects, but now that there is some evidence of such effects and they are reasonably well understood in theory, it is somehow so sad that the left-wing who otherwise cares for the excluded and for equality does not seem to be of any value to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u131	Madam President! Once the employer has said ‘I do’,the relationship may be notified thattheexemption —that is the worker’s right — but the law is generally laid down on the side And in this case, we're the station then... Maybe five years from now, we'll see what happens next. But now this proposal as such, if you think of it, is, in a way, reiterating this state of existing legislation. Well, during the debate, I asked the Minister about the lack of confidence whether it would change it somehow now that we had the basis for the termination of the employment relationship in the past. If a person has even exercised the right of his own hand or has done something that is not part of the employment relationship, then of course it has been possible to terminate it without a warning procedure, if such a lack of trust has come. But now I would like to ask a little more what it means now that it is included in the explanatory memorandum. As a second question, I wondered if, in the event of dismissal, the size of this company would be taken into account when assessing the number of employees, whether this could at worst mean that there would be a new case law on illegal redundancies. That if you are a two-person company then you begin to calculate what is the current amount of compensation for illegal dismissal, and then you use a little fractionation to ensure that in small businesses, even if it is done illegally, you don't pay very much. At the moment, when an employer can terminate an employment relationship after a warning, if there is this reprehensibility and so on, it costs the employer, then in a normally shorter employment relationship, a two-week period of notice. And when I was looking at the decisions of the labor court there, it had often happened that there had been warnings about the employee, but at the time when I should have been dismissed, a burned coil had been burned, and it was decided, in other words, that the employment relationship was dissolved. I do not know whether the entrepreneurs have thought, then, that, well, we will save the two-week salary here so that we do not have to pay it when it is done as a demolition. So I see that this incompetence is perhaps the most important one, and in that sense it is justified that we create a system which, of course, Finnish Entrepreneurs should have made better use of in their own activities to highlight that there would be advice related to this employment relationship. When I was working as a secretary at the Metal Association, there were quite a few entrepreneurs who contacted me and asked what to do, and even though they were not so-called paying members, that advice was given. Many times there were trouble situations just because now the guy's been late again, that's what we're doing here. Then it was instructed what kind of procedure it is to warn a person and give him the opportunity to correct his activities, and if not, you will resign and that is it. No person will receive legal aid from the union if this kind of procedure is thus carried out. Unfortunately, however, this also means that now that we see what this is like, these things often in an unorganised employer field mean that they are taken to the district courts. And not all of us in the district courts really have such competent professional knowledge of working life, so that that path certainly often leads to the court of Appeal and, therefore, to the Supreme Court. So now it's open. That is what I admit — when it comes to this increase in work — that yes, it will increase the work, the work of lawyers. There will be considerable labour market opportunities in the next few years, thanks to this. And when we are always criticised here in the opposition, when we make proposals to go to the state purse, I would like to remind the Minister of one of the few proposals I have put forward as measures to lower the threshold. One is that the threshold for hiring the first foreign worker should be lowered so that, in the first year, social contributions would not have to be paid but would come from labour market support of EUR 32, which, according to the parliamentary information service, has been calculated neutral for the first year, and then these social security contributions would be passed on gradually to the employer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u132	Mr President! All in all, when, on personal grounds, this dismissal was thought to be facilitated by small companies, I felt that it was a small thing as a whole, even when there were these 20 workers there, then the ten-employee limit, and it was further reduced in importance when these limits were abolished. Mr President! I myself have 30 years of entrepreneurial experience, and many times during that period of entrepreneurial activity I had to ask who is listening to a small entrepreneur in this country, and since I have been a Member of Parliament for seven and a half years, that question still stands. Still, today you have to ask who is listening to a small entrepreneur in this country. — Representative Myllykoski raised his hand there. Well, why don't you get up a few hands, but we should do something. In my view, this government proposal does not in any way add to the confrontation between small entrepreneurs and workers working in small businesses, in fact the opposite. It is also in the interests of workers working in small businesses that everyone carries out their jobs. In small companies, if a small working community, a few people in a working community, has been wrongly recruited or recruited at all, a person who does not want to perform his or her work or who does not do it for any other reason, this puts a strain on the workload of these other workers. On the other hand, it must also be borne in mind that even in small companies, employees have the advantage of maintaining a job for everyone, that is to say, that the company is doing well. Myllykoski, in his own speech, raised the importance of education, but in fact I think it is a little hypocritical. Yes, companies are aware of these dismissal procedures, but the current case law is that these contested dismissals, which are dealt with in court, are very rarely won by the employer. As a rule, these cases will be won by an employee. In my view, this proposal seeks, as a general rule, to influence this case law so that the number of employees employed by the employer should be taken into account when assessing the fulfilment of the grounds for dismissal, and the consequence of this is that the risk of employment is falling, and the consequence of this is that the willingness to employ is increasing, and that is how the government achieves its objective of increasing the employment rate in this country. Well, it has been estimated which time frame and when this will take place, and it really does require that the case law changes, and of course in the moment it will not change, and then the matter of the judiciary is actually to make the final result of this, whether it changes how much or not, and then has an impact on this reduction in the risk of employment and hence on the increase in the willingness to employ. But why do we need this at all? Why should small companies in the case-law be viewed differently from large companies? In that debat, I said this 1/100 issue that if two employees are employed in a company and 200 are employed in another company, these two employees constitute 100 % of the workforce in this small enterprise, while the 200 in a large company make up 100 % of the workforce, and that is why it is relevant that if this small company, which has two employees, one refuses to work or for some other reason fails to perform its duties, it is 50 % of the workforce, and in this company that employs 200 persons, in practice, that would mean that 100 of these 200 employees would be persons who do not perform their duties. With this in mind, this size of the company makes sense. It is precisely this proposal that needs to be aimed at improving employment. Whatever happens in the future, it will remain a matter of case law. I get a lot of feedback from companies and it's right here lately, in the last month on these redundancies. The day before yesterday, I received a message of this kind, which is not directly related to this, but perhaps tells me about this case law: An employee in a small company has been working the morning shift for eight years. Then the order book of this company has grown, and he has then had to be moved to two shifts so that he would be on the morning shift and on the evening shift on a day - to - week basis. The employee has refused to work the evening shift and has resigned himself. Since then, he has gone to another employer to work and challenged his employment relationship, and in the end it was the right to sentence the employer to pay the employee, who dismissed himself and went to another employer, a salary of ten months. I am not going to go into these details and I do not know them and I am not a lawyer, but this did sound a little unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u133	Mr President! I will continue to tell the Minister about the same things as I did in the previous speech, and I did not get the answer to all the questions at the time and I do not understand why legislation is being drawn up which we know will be interpreted in court after years. Does this not increase uncertainty in the labour market for a long time? I don't think this is in anyone's interest. And, on the other hand, is it not a risk that there will now be more employment in the courts that have already been employed? I did not understand what the minister meant when he said that the size of the company is now being taken into account “more pressing ” than is the case today. I mean, how? What difference does it make in comparison to current practice? Mr President! I personally believe in evidence-based decision-making, and I believe that is why expert opinions are also sought from researchers and sought as a basis for decision-making. The arguments against this bill are, in my opinion, directly found in the impact assessments requested by the government itself, which have also been carried out by people who have been trained in research. I have to wonder why impact assessments are usually requested if they do not matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u134	Mr President! We are certainly all pleased that we are at peace in the labour market at the moment, and in that sense the situation has gone off, but it would never have happened if the laws had been prepared in a tripartite manner together — and this crisis, which has been behind it, would not have happened. If we look at, for example, OECD comparisons, which I myself am used to relying on relatively thoroughly and, as it were, with the right criteria, then they tell us that, according to the latest comparison, Finland's protection against dismissal is below the EU average. On the basis of 2013, the protection of collective redundancies is among the lowest in Finland, while the protection of individuals is approximately the European average in Finland. So not a high standard, as has been said in a few speeches in this Chamber. These government proposals, which the government itself has been allowed to order from those to whom it believes and trust, indicate that facilitating the threshold for dismissal or facilitating dismissal in small companies in general does not necessarily lead to an increase in employment and that the impact on employment is very uncertain. Personally, I believe in the analysis in those previous versions that when dismissal is facilitated, it may increase the company's productivity if people go around, as it were, for themselves to do the most suitable work this way. But unfortunately, in this round, when we live in an uncertain world, it also happens that those people who are hardest to work will fall into this chain altogether, and it may be that we will, without wishing to do so, also increase the structural unemployment that is a very big problem in Finland. The second problem of this round is that companies' willingness to train employees can be reduced if we think that we are being circumvented a lot. I myself have had a discussion with entrepreneurs about whether or not to invest in an employee. One entrepreneur said that it is not worth training in a sector with a lot of jobs, that it is not worth training, because if it goes away after my training. Well, another entrepreneur said that what if it doesn't leave and you don't train? In fact, the fact that we do things well, we organise the work smartly, is a better way to increase productivity than to try to get people to their best position through an easier cut-off threshold, as it were. We know, and all the major studies and the government's own assessments show, that the greatest risk of strengthening employment is that we do not have the kind of skills we need in the labour market, and this is already reflected in the problems facing us. Not all of this is due to knowledge, but nevertheless it is a big risk, and it would therefore be better to try to increase employment by giving us more vocational labour market training, we would have different conversion training and we would have more targeted training in order to be able to meet the needs of businesses. Well, then, if you think of the certainty of this law or whether it brings certainty or uncertainty, then in this debate several representatives of the government party have said that we will then, through case law, see where this leads and what kind of interpretation comes from. Is it not, however, the greatest risk for companies that we should go to court in that way or that we should go because we do not really know what the right, legal way to act is? That is why we should not legislate on the kind of legislation that we think we already think about here when we say that we should look through the Court of Justice what this law means, but that we should have the impact assessments at our disposal so that we can have faith in them, and the explanations that tell us what will happen with that law, so that we can honestly legislate. We in the European Union have often criticised the fact that compromises are being made which, in fact, give jurisdiction to the courts. I think the government has moved to a new level of lawmaking. Impact assessments are carried out in a single proposal whose objectives they do not support. Then these impact assessments will be transferred to another proposal and claim that they will support it. But that's not how it works. I'm sure those performances should always be evaluated as their own. I share our view, as I said before, that this law mainly employs labour law lawyers. It can also bring big risks to small companies, which now have the impression, as it were, that they would be much easier to lay off in person than under the current law. But, as the Minister said, the records that have been made there have been made very small, so that what we have in today's law is actually rewritten here, in a certain way, and it is hoped that the world will then become somehow easier. A lot of you must have read the news in the paper some time ago that the employee had been dismissed for wearing Roosa's ribbon on his chest. That dismissal is most likely legal. It was about the employer's obligation to wear clothing and the employee's violation of it. This is how easily we can get rid of the worker when you know the process, and that is why I tend to believe in that model presented by President Rinte that we have more advice on how to act legally when difficulties arise with the worker, to find ways to resolve the crisis situation or to find the way in which the process of dismissal can be handled legally. I cannot believe that the companies that are now responding that I would pay, if the threshold for dismissal were easier, are very familiar with our dismissal threshold or with the current legislation, because few small companies have been able to study it. I know that I myself remember when the question was asked which labour market policy instrument would be best for companies to hire people who had been unemployed for longer periods of time, the answer was:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u135	Mr President! In his own speech, Minister Lindström has just acknowledged that this proposal is indeed controversial and does not know what will happen in the future, other than that lawyers will get a job. At the same time, the Minister also stated that he does not know whether this will cause staff to be laid off in small companies because of the age and inability of the young Chinese girl to work next to him. In other words, this is the government's desire to remove the question of access, and then to expel its own people, its own population, from small businesses. It is rather unfortunate, though, to think of how we will then find employment in that ageing working population. Well, it's not coming. We know how many of them are unemployed at the moment, and now we are going to make it easier. Although it is said that ‘substantially’, there is no indication of what is relevant. What is it like? I'm sure there'll be some of those overkills, and then we'll start to quit when we lose a little bit of work power. Well, as far as this is concerned, I would like to say that it is not always the case that there is a problem with the employee, but that there may also be a problem with the employer. But that employee can't leave work now that he's got that 90-day haircut. It can affect the motivation of the employee if he waits because he is dismissed. Then it's not good for either of us to be kept under duress. I think that if an employee wants to change jobs and leave, so that he can find a job, there should be a lower degree of temperament, rather than a poor motivation there and may be under a bad employer, a superior. There may be sick leave, all of them, but when you have that long temper as a threat, you can't get out of there. In my opinion, this too should be taken into account when we know how many people are left on sick leave because of depression or fatigue. But it may also be because of the employer; it must then also be taken into account. Well, then, this bill says it makes the employer employ, dares to employ. But I hear that in some companies the employer does not receive the workforce, some do and others do not. It may be the fault of some companies, smaller companies, that the employee does not want to go to that small company when he can be in that smaller window of eyes. It's a little bigger in a larger community, but the smaller one has an easy eye window and he gets bounced around more easily, and that's what's causing him to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u136	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to point out to Mr Kaj Turuse that, when he made a little complaint to the left about being on the left side of the worker in such a way as to wait for the workers to be able to cope, of course that is what we are doing. But at some point I myself have been a union wager and have reached a position where a small entrepreneur is facing a tight spot and where you can see clearly that he is right, and yes, that has been done in such a way that then he has not been defeated and the matter has been settled. The situation is such, even in the guidelines of the unions, that legal aid is not given if you are in a weak position. And this has always been the case. But then, when I think about these grounds for dismissal of an employee, I think this job is quite cleverly written. Now it is not clear whether it is demolition or dismissal. And I thought about it, if this is just a ground for dismissal, then, in a way, the grounds for dissolution that have previously been may then become grounds for dismissal. Then the other side of what comes here, if it comes in practice, when those court decisions are reached at some point, is that if this happens in the way that this lack of trust is that the employer experiences, he has a feeling that I do not trust that guy at all and leaves it to the dismissal process and is dismissed, then I do think that the qualifying period for unemployment benefit is too long and that it should have been zero days by then, since this is such an vague basis for dismissal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u137	Mr President! This is what Semi is referring to, and the training itself is good for small entrepreneurs and the better management of these redundancies, but it does not in any way solve it. I do not see that there is even a very significant information gap, but the government's proposal is motivated by a reduction in the employment threshold and thus by an improvement in employment. This training does not in any way solve this essential issue that is being pursued. However, the fact that training is provided for companies in the event of dismissals does not add to this job creation business. From these case-laws that what we currently have is a case-law, it is widely perceived as unfair by many entrepreneurs in these situations of dismissal. This proposal is not intended to influence and, of course, should not affect the case law of the judiciary as a whole, but it is now, at least for these small companies, seeking to change the law in that way. We must remember that we are merely drafting the law and then the right to decide independently what the future case law is in accordance with its new law. These roles must be well remembered. It would be amazing if we were to demand a certain kind of case law here. We're just making laws, and we have to stay here a little while ago and wait for this to work. But let us hope that this will work exactly as it has been thought.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to give the floor, as requested here, to Mr Filatov, the Minister after him, and then, if we still want to speak, then, after the Minister has spoken, there is, of course, still an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u139	Mr President! Let's be brief. Yes, I have the impression that we are trying to legislate in such a way that, when they are implemented in the courts, they will be the result of what we have been trying to achieve here. And that is why I find it rather strange that we should throw ourselves in there, then see what the court will decide in the future, as if it were a virtue. Virtue is that we make clear laws and know what comes of them, but this is not, unfortunately, so clear a law that we know what happens. That is why I asked for the floor when it was hoped that we in the committee would deal with this in-depth and specifically deal with these impact assessments and make a proper impact assessment, so unfortunately it has to be said here that we will not be able to do that very far, because this is a budget law and even though this is such a significant law and a rather unclear law, although there are few changes, we have a few weeks to deal with this, that it will not be a terriblely profound impact assessment. I would like these works to be done there at the government table to the law that is being brought here, rather than a completely different kind of law being passed on to another content.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u140	Minister, how about a few minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u141	Thank you, Mr President, I think a few minutes will do. — Thank you for the debate. It's a tough thing. Yes, we commissioned a study on the effects of reducing the threshold for dismissal, and in the light of such theoretical literature and so-called empirical studies this was done. There are always uncertainties about this and, of course, uncertainty does not mean that changes do not have positive effects. We have research data on lowering the threshold for dismissal, but it is precisely small companies that are not available, no matter how sought. Well, however, it is reasonable to assume that these changes would have an incentive effect on employment, because that message from the entrepreneur field has been so strong that if things like this become, then it would probably encourage them to employ more. Here, among other things, Mrs Filatov criticises this as having an impact on the matching of the labour market and its dynamics, that is to say, changing the people faster than is currently the case. We assume, however, that such things would be. These jobs would be better filled by suitable staff, and this would also create incentives for the use of its own workforce and the conclusion of contracts of indefinite duration. It has, of course, been studied as to what kind of protection against dismissal in Finland is approximately comparable internationally. That, too, is where Mr Filatov brought his point of view. According to my information, the individual-based protection against dismissal in Finland is, for example, at the level of key competitor countries in the OECD comparison, but the case law has evolved in the direction that some companies feel that the threshold for dismissal is too high, as Mr Turunen has just said very well. So there has been a law, then there has been a case law, and some companies feel that this is too strict. That is why we want to change this one point so that the small size of the company will be better taken into account in the overall consideration in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u142	Mr. Filatov. Our window of time is about to be filled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u143	Mr President! Very briefly. What I referred to in these comparisons about the strict or narrow nature of the protection against dismissal was directly related to the effectiveness and comparative aspects of the first draft of the Government. I just wanted to make it right that I am not opposed to a dynamic labour market. Perhaps that's where the Minister misunderstood. I wanted to think about it from the point of view that it does increase productivity, but it could be improved by means of skills, and there is also the risk that people who are hardest to find employment will fall completely and then fall into unemployment and will not be employed at all. This is the risk that I think is also involved in this thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u144	I will give Mrs Myllykoski the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u145	Mr President! I was a little in need of an answer from the Minister as to whether this would affect the practice of compensation for illegal dismissals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u146	I will give Mrs Sem the floor, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the time limit for dealing with this matter has already expired.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u147	Mr President! Thank you so much. — — — — This situation was still disturbed by the fact that the current lack of trust as a condition for the termination of employment means something concrete to do, if there is a evidence-based reason and effect, whether this argument in the new law can then be censored that it is only dependent on the employer’s opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u148	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u149	Mr President! When a company goes bankrupt, it also means personal debt imprisonment many times. This may take up to 30 years or even lead one into an eternal cycle of inheritance. I have been contacted by many entrepreneurs who have been almost completely excluded from society during the recession of the 1990s or by representatives of organisations that have been involved in their affairs. Employment, the creation of a new business, the acquisition of a dwelling or even a telephone subscription was impossible. I'm surprised a lot of people are involved. In 2006, 25,000 companies ceased their operations. Of course, not all of these went bankrupt. 30% of the start-ups currently set up will no longer exist in five years. In addition to the quality of human life, the difficult debt burden to break down in bankruptcy also weakens the functioning of society. The amendment should have supported these entrepreneurs and workers. Now that I have read through the bill, there are of course good things in it, it clarifies the bankruptcy procedure and takes into account the environmental impact, but saving people is not a matter at all, and that is what I really wonder.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u150	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend, among other things, the bankruptcy law. I'd say it's about time. The previous law entered into force in September 2004. Over the last 14 years or so, it has become clear that the law needs to be changed. The proposal will simplify and speed up the bankruptcy procedure. The debt settlement of bankruptcy proceedings will be simplified by reducing the requirements for the contents of the estate list in respect of claims for bankruptcy. In order to speed up the procedure, the time-limits for the bankruptcy procedure and the possibilities for monitoring its compliance will be strengthened. The amendments concern the completion of the list of nests and debtors' settlements, the submission of a motion for revocation, the imposition of the date of supervision and the completion of the draft allocation list. An obligation would be imposed on the hivekeeper to take into account, on its own initiative, clear claims in certain situations without supervision. In order to clarify the unclear legal situation, the Bankruptcy Act introduces provisions on the status of public environmental liabilities in bankruptcy. The provisions will show in the future the extent to which a bankruptcy estate has access to environmental liability at its own expense and to which there is no obligation to act and no liability for costs. As a common factor for the arguments that give rise to liability, there would be a so-called danger element. If the Authority were to assume the responsibilities of the bankruptcy estate, the bankruptcy estate would bear the costs in so far as the operations were carried out after the bankruptcy began. On the other hand, if the measures taken by the bankruptcy estate were a lien, the bankruptcy estate would be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of the sale price of the pledge. In future, the liabilities of the debtor’s bankruptcy estate will be larger than those mentioned above, in line with the normal operator’s responsibilities as a matter of principle. These bankruptcy cases, Mr President, are very complicated, but I believe that with this government proposal we will be able to bring these issues forward considerably and more clearly. I hope that this law will come into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u151	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u152	Mr President! In this Government bill, provisions are added to the Prisons Act and the Penitentiary Act to allow the Criminal Sanctions Agency to intervene in the movement of an unmanned vehicle within or above the prison area. In the future, drones and other remote control steers will be affected by interfering with the radio signal they use. The use of different types of unmanned vehicles, in particular drones and unmanned aircraft, has continued to increase in recent years. This constitutes a new security threat to prisons, as such devices make it possible to transport unauthorised items and substances to prison. Some prisons have already observed such activity. As equipment becomes more widespread and cheaper, their use for purposes that endanger prison security may also increase. The purchase of technical equipment costs money and, of course, it requires the provision of training for the officials of the Criminal Sanctions Agency in connection with their use. Of course, the cost of training depends on the number and quality of the equipment to be purchased, but in any case it is clearly lower than the cost of purchasing the equipment, not to mention the safety benefit. At present, the Criminal Sanctions Agency has no explicit competence to intervene in the movement of unmanned vehicles within or above the prison area. I believe that the proposal will significantly improve the capacity and ability of Mrs Risse to take care of prison security, so there is no objection to this proposal. Mr President! In addition, the proposal specifies the provisions on the binding of the Prisons Act and the Penitentiary Act in such a way that officials of the Criminal Sanctions Agency would be competent to use the hood or bandage intended to prevent spitting. It is quite extraordinary that at the moment it has not been possible to use such instruments. It is good that in the future there will be and the conditions for their use would be the same as the conditions for binding at the moment. Prisoners are increasingly suffering from various forms of saliva-borne diseases from which it is necessary to protect staff in conflict situations. Situations are usually in which the conditions for binding under the Penitentiary Act are met, but the mere use of handcuffs is not enough to calm the use of the prisoner, or, in spite of this, the prisoner tries to spit on the staff. There may also be mental problems with the prisoners. However, according to the information I have received, the need for use would be rare. According to the proposal, the Assistant Ombudsman also considers it justified to introduce instruments to prevent spitting on officials or other persons. Such protective equipment is sometimes needed in police activity. But the talk is now about these spitting in prison. There is every justification for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u153	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 5/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u154	Mr. Speaker! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with the Chancellor of Justice's report for 2017 and has adopted a report on it. The general part of the Chancellor of Justice's report sets out the functions and powers of the Chancellor of Justice, namely the monitoring of the legality of the office of the President of the Republic and of the Government, the supervision of the legality of public authorities and other public servants, and the supervision of the activities of lawyers, public legal advisers and authorised legal advisers. In addition, in line with established practice, the report includes statements by the Chancellor of Justice and the Deputy Chancellor of Justice. In his speech, Chancellor Pöysti deals with the strengthening of preliminary regulatory control and Deputy Chancellor Puumalainen's review of the audit activities. The section on the division of duties and the development of cooperation between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman of the Government is welcome in itself, since this is an issue which has also been repeatedly pointed out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or which has been dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. According to the Constitution, Finland has two supreme law enforcement officers: the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice of the Government. In particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with this division of labour between the Supreme Legal Officers in connection with the reports of the Chancellor of Justice for 2014, 2015 and 2016 and with the Ombudsman for the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when dealing with the Government's report on human rights, has raised the issue of cooperation and division of labour between actors involved in the promotion and monitoring of fundamental and human rights. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore attaches great importance to examining the division of duties between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice and the possibilities for developing cooperation. The committee is therefore pleased to note that a working group has been set up at the Ministry of Justice to clarify and evaluate the division of duties between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. The committee has stated, and again, that there is a long tradition and, of course, respect for the various aspects of judicial control. At the same time, however, law enforcement must live in time and its development should be considered without prejudice. And now that this Department of Justice task force has been set up, it can certainly be said with confidence that this will also happen. The second point raised by the Chancellor of Justice in his own report is preliminary regulatory control, its content and its objectives. The provisions of the Constitution on the role of the Chancellor of Justice as guardian of the law are the legal basis for the Chancellor of Justice's preliminary regulatory review. More detailed forms of control, largely based on practice, are the subject of active development in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, and how this came to light was, of course, very pleased to note also during the hearings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this report, the Chancellor of Justice calls on the ministries to ask for an opinion on legislative projects relevant to fundamental and human rights or the implementation of the rule of law and good governance. Similarly, the opinion is encouraged to be consulted on legislative projects that are relevant to the consistency of legislation and the application of the law. In addition, the consultative and guiding role of the Chancellor of Justice requires more initiative from the preparatory ministry or, correspondingly, a fundamental activity in the follow-up of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice's own initiative. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated on several occasions that the principles of good lawmaking are important, and that is why this has been dealt with relatively often. In particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed that the relevant ministries play a key role in the legislative process in taking constitutional aspects into account. It may be difficult to correct shortcomings and errors in the preparatory phase at a later stage of the process and, as we have often seen, it is also very difficult. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that ministries must ensure that they have sufficient skilled staff, including staff who recognise constitutional issues. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore emphasised in particular the importance of skilled lawmakers in the implementation of successful legislative drafting, and again the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reiterates the importance that ministries pay particular attention to the adequacy of experienced lawmakers. The committee has also drawn attention to the fact that when the Chancellor of Justice gives opinions and expresses his views in the preliminary legislative control, these observations must also be duly taken into account in the preparation of legislation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers it important and justified to develop the importance of ex ante regulatory control and control in line with the report from the point of view of the principles of good lawmaking. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs continues to stress the importance of development and, in particular, the effectiveness of this monitoring. Then, as a new matter, the committee has dealt briefly with the role of the Chancellor of Justice, which includes the supervision of the activities of lawyers, public legal advisers and authorised legal advisers. In the reporting year 2016, the Chancellor of Justice has made a proposal to amend the law on authorised legal aids, inter alia as regards the eligibility of applicants for authorisation and the right of appeal of the Chancellor of Justice. Since the Court of Appeal of Helsinki has ruled in its decision in 2017, that a breach of the obligation to provide information and clarification to permit lawyers cannot result in a disciplinary sanction on the supervisory board in the context of the Finnish Bar Association, the Deputy Chancellor of Justice has, in 2017, supplemented this recently mentioned initiative of the Chancellor of Justice. The reason why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wants to raise this particular issue is because the questions of access to and quality of legal assistance and supervision are relevant to the fair trial referred to in Article 21(2) of the Constitution and to the safeguarding of guarantees of good administration. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers these comments made by the Chancellor of Justice and Deputy Chancellor of Justice in 2016 and 2017. Let us hope that, once things have been strongly raised, the necessary measures will also be taken. In short, statistical data. During the reporting year, 2346 complaints were received by the Attorney General’s Office and 823 other cases were initiated. 3232 cases were resolved and the committee welcomes the fact that this has been done so quickly and actively. Separately, the Constitutional Committee has not assessed the individual solutions or positions of the Chancellor of Justice. The committee's proposal for a decision states that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u155	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its President, Mr Lapintie, for his report and for these comments and comments. These are important issues and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has found time and time to raise these broader issues. In this context, I will reply mainly to three points briefly. The first issue is the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman. I am personally allowed to be part of the Ministry of Justice's working group together with Mr Jääskeläinen, and it has also been a pleasure to note that the work has started quickly and, as I understand it, with an approach which has been repeated several times by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in line with the report that is now under discussion. In other words, we are working in good cooperation to find solutions that will implement effective, time-consuming and, in particular, citizens' perspective, not from the point of view of bureaucracy, but from the point of view of the citizens, a future-looking law enforcement. Of course, tradition is valuable and respected, and the Chancellor of Justice is also an old institution, but the idea is to develop it actively, especially in view of the needs of people today and of the future. Now, in this preliminary analysis, it also appears that both the guardians of the law have areas of specialisation and orientation created by the legislation provided for by the Constitutional Treaty and, in practice, by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Chancellor of Justice, among other things, also mentioned in this speech, has jurisdiction over the courts and the supervision of lawyers, public legal advisers and authorised legal advisers. I believe that this work is progressing and can be achieved through a system that is clear and in which both legal supervisors complement each other very well. Secondly, in response to the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on good lawmaking and its implementation, I would like to make a brief comment. Anticipatory regulatory control is an increasingly important part of independent control over the government of the Chancellor of Justice, and now that the committee's report has arrived, we have been working closely with the Heads of Government of the ministries and the Ministry of Justice on issues such as those raised in the committee's report. As far as I am concerned, the civil servants in the ministries have an important role to play as neutral, objective actors during the various government formations to ensure both the resources, the skills and the proper organisation and scheduling of individual preparatory projects. One of the themes that has also been discussed here is the need for a perspective that goes beyond the parliamentary term and an idea of which issues require longer-term preparation than the preparation of the parliamentary term. The third point raised by the committee is the supervision of licensing lawyers. This is an important point. Expert, affordable and reliable legal assistance and access to it is a very important part of ensuring that the right to a fair trial and good administration can be achieved. Unfortunately, even the Finnish process is now largely dependent on the work of assistants and, if there are shortcomings, it is reflected in other matters, for example, we have been observed in dealing with foreign cases in the last time. This too is now in the active preparation of the Ministry of Justice, and certainly in the next Parliament, if the then government so decides, it will return to it in the legislative context. In the meantime, we too will see what controls can do to achieve this. Mr President! These were mainly the answers to the comments made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u156	Mr. Speaker! I would have just thanked Attorney General Pöyst for these remarks. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been particularly pleased, of course, with the fact that the division of labour has been considered, because both tasks are particularly important, both for the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, both for the citizens and for the good drafting of the law, and in that sense, if the Office of the Chancellor of Justice is able to concentrate in particular on the monitoring of the quality of drafting of the law. As I said in my introductory remarks, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn much attention to the fact that not only this proactive, high-quality consideration is not enough, but it must also be taken into account when preparing the law that it is not enough merely to pronounce, but rather the measures that will be taken as a result of these statements. But with confidence, we can see things move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u157	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 17/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u158	Mr President! This is a change in the vehicle tax law, which would reduce the basic vehicle tax by EUR 50 million, and would be an average of EUR 20 per vehicle. This reduction in the basic vehicle tax would enter into force for tax periods starting from the beginning of 2020, i.e. we are on the move in good time. It would only apply to those vehicles which are taxed on the basis of CO2 emissions, i.e. the old passenger and van fleet for which no emission data are available and whose basic tax is therefore determined on the basis of the total mass of the vehicle. In that committee debate, the idea has emerged from the opposition's side that the purchase of a car should be reduced, and this has been misinterpreted. However, it should be noted here that the Government of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä explicitly reduces the purchase of a car in four instalments between 2016 and 2019 by EUR 50 million each year, or a total of EUR 200 million. At the beginning of next year there will be a final reduction in car tax of EUR 50 million. On the other hand, the basic vehicle tax tax has already been tightened by EUR 100 million. Now it will be reduced by EUR 50 million. In other words, there will be a plus to the basic vehicle tax, which the opposition considers to be good, EUR 50 million. So the unorganised ideas put forward by the opposition in committee have been followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u159	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 11/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u160	Mr President! In this Chamber a few weeks ago, it was said that there is a social elephant in this Chamber, and then I pointed out from my side that there is an even bigger elephant here, the Euroelefant. Now that you look at this government proposal and even more broadly at the foreign and security policy debate in Finland, you can say that there is also a NATO elephant in this room and in Finland as a whole. This Government's proposal for Finland's participation in the expansion of crisis management is rather small in itself. However, I thought I would oppose this proposal first and foremost to protest against the fact that we are not having a proper, comprehensive debate on Finland's participation in military crisis management. President Koivisto sometimes warned that Finland is entering the path of Charles XII when too much of the military resources are spent on crisis management abroad and foreign cooperation. This government proposal now gives rise to a slightly broader consideration of this issue. We should, for example, be able to hold a debate on the principles of participation in crisis management in the next government negotiations, and how much is involved and involved. But there are two other important things. When Finland’s participation in a major military exercise in Norway was discussed here in Parliament during Question Time, Mr Mustajärvi was allowed to ask a question about it. I had a question about the same subject, but I did not get the opportunity to present it. I would have asked the Minister for Defence how his actions were consistent with the statements made by the President of the Republic. President Niinistö has stated that military non-alignment best serves the security interests of Finland under the present conditions. On the other hand, he has stated that Finland would lose the advantage of non-alignment if Russia began to regard Finland as a threat to security similar to the military alliance NATO. And now we have these exercises, which are creating the impression that Finland can be a similar threat. On the other hand, there is also the question of a host country agreement. After all, there was also NATO military activity in Finland, and it was based on this host country agreement. As far as Finland is concerned, this agreement was signed in due course by the Defence Forces Commander after obtaining authorisation from the Government's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy, chaired by the President of the Republic. The agreement was not discussed in Parliament. In Sweden, the government referred the Treaty to the Parliament and so came into force a little later. There were two important preconditions for the application of the Treaty: NATO troops can only enter the country at the invitation of Sweden, and the agreement does not give NATO countries the right to place nuclear weapons on the Swedish territory. As far as Finland is concerned, there has been a clear interpretation of the agreement, above all as to whether NATO troops can come to our country on their own initiative. Paragraph 10 of the Host Country Agreement states that it shall remain in force for an indefinite period unless the Participant terminates it by informing the other Participants in writing six months in advance. And on the basis of paragraph 11, the Agreement may be amended or amended in writing with the agreement of all participants. In my opinion, Finland should open discussions in order to clarify the host country agreement by including at least the limits decided by the Swedish Parliament. At the same time, a manifest procedural error at the time of the conclusion of the agreement could be corrected and this amended or modified agreement could be referred to Parliament. After the parliamentary elections, there should also be in-depth discussions on the principles by which Finland carries out its own military exercises and participates in military exercises carried out by other countries and NATO. I have tried to make this statement out of despair, but no media in Finland is willing to publish such statements, but only NATO propaganda is heard everywhere. Mr President! I will therefore support the opposition of the Left Alliance on the grounds I have just set out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u161	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u162	Mr President! Health issues affect every single one of us. Throughout the history of mankind, and especially the written part of it, we can find descriptions of diseases, their real and imagined causes and different forms of treatment. The development of medicine and our knowledge of the origin and treatment of diseases, as well as the maintenance of health during the last century, have been speeding forward with tremendous strides, and that rate is constantly increasing. However, we have not yet achieved a lasting cure for all diseases, and so man’s life is still limited for all of us. In medicine, as in all other sciences, the level of knowledge of experts and laity is quite different. Experts often find it difficult to find an unambiguous answer to complex and complex problems. In the case of severe diseases, it is often impossible to provide accurate predictions of the future of the patient, and many effective treatments are undoubtedly accompanied by disadvantages. Then it is human that the patient should seek out activities that explain the causes of the disease on the basis of beliefs, whether by radio waves, by wrong energy or by curses, and by means of pleasant and unharmful treatment — I might say this in quotation marks. A serious or radical life-changing illness always causes a different degree of existential crisis for the patient. It is in these situations that a person’s genuine encounter and emotional support play a key role in trying to find a new balance in a changed life situation. Unfortunately, we health professionals still have a lot to learn in this regard. The media of our time, both traditional and digital, turbulent articles, patient cases, stories of miraculous cures. Discussion is taking place on the harmful effects of different nutrients and preparations and on the expected health effects. Some of the articles are pure advertising, which is cloaked in the form of a scientific publication. When the surface is scratched slightly, a full - scale scam is often revealed below. Unexistent professors and research units, fictitious investigations and consciously falsified data. Advertising has also been based on studies whose method of implementation does not in any way meet the criteria for genuine research. Global networks are rapidly spreading theories based on all kinds of beliefs that accuse and blame health professionals and researchers whenever they want. As a good example, I would like to mention the noni fruit drink, which was marketed about 10 to 15 years ago as an effective treatment for all cancers. It was based on the fact that doctors refuse to prescribe none when they do not benefit financially from the products. Several patients bought the product at a price of up to EUR 100 per litre, according to my information. I haven't heard anything about that stuff in years. If, throughout my career as a cancer doctor, I had collected all the news from the tabloids about things that increase or reduce the risk of cancer, there would be a great deal of opus and a huge contradiction in their content from completely contradictory information and results. It is understandable, then, that the ordinary citizen is reasonably amazed at all this information. The expert may base his decision only on the data examined and on the products and methods identified as effective and safe for the treatment given by the physician or, with the agreement of the patient, carry out experimental treatment in an ethically and scientifically accepted trial design. This should also be done, for example, in trials in the treatment of inadequately responsive diagnosed thyroid dysfunction. The field of religious treatment is very wide and very diverse. There are many unharmful well - being treatments that can even have a beneficial effect on one’s well - being. I consider it important to carry out a study on the potential health effects of a sauna, for example, and I know from experience that the presence and touch of another person calms a restless and painful patient. Belief treatments become harmful and even dangerous when the products used cause the patient’s health harm or, as a result of religious treatments, the patient’s proper research and treatment is not carried out. There are also actors in the field of religious treatments whose motives are strongly economic. I could give you a number of examples of manipulating a person who is difficult to deal with and exploiting his distressed condition also in the form of very high costs. It is impossible to calculate the cost of human suffering, but religious treatments also cost us taxpayers when the patient’s delay or harm is then corrected in our health care system. What is worrying is that even angelic therapy is provided at community colleges supported by the state. This, if anything, is clouding people’s understanding between beliefs and researched knowledge-based activities. A working group set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health considered the need for legislation on religious treatments as early as 2009. According to the time reports, the work of the working group was rather contentious and archaeological. The proposals relating to religious treatments have not moved forward with our legislation. The present legislative initiative is based on the emphasis on patient safety. It is therefore a question of protecting vulnerable groups of patients, i.e. incorporating so-called safe legislation into the Health Care Act. The diagnosis and treatment of serious diseases, such as cancer or diabetes, mental health patients or people with memory disorders, transplant patients and pregnant women would continue to be in the hands of healthcare professionals only. If a patient wants to use religious treatments, it should be done in cooperation with professionals. The purpose of the bill is not to launch a broader study on, for example, the preparation of changes to consumer protection legislation. In the future, it is likely that consideration will also need to be given to the role of the customer as a consumer in services moving through the interface between well-being, health and medical care. We are not alone in Finland with this problem of religious treatment. In Sweden, for example, there is already appropriate legislation, and the Spanish Government has just begun to prepare. I hope that the bill will be dealt with quickly. We've got the articles ready. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u163	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the maximum number of presentations of initiatives, as well as the government's proposals, is not 5 or 7 but 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u164	Mr President! Good news. — Mr President! Finland has suffered greatly as a result of its membership in the euro area. After all, this whole single currency project has failed, and economic experts today largely believe that it was a serious mistake to move to the euro. The mistake was, above all, that there was too much euro area, that there were too many different economies, and this has already led to huge problems so far. And, of course, Finland's accession to the euro currency was a terrible mistake. This is particularly evident when comparing the economic development of Finland and Sweden. National economies are very similar. Sweden has had, on average, relatively strong economic growth over the past ten years, the Swedish economy is now around a quarter higher than it was ten years ago, and after difficult years of loss, Finland has barely reached the same level as before the international financial crisis. If the growth rate of Finland's national economy had been similar to that of Sweden, our national income would now be about EUR 50 billion more than it is and the public authorities would have about 25 billion more money available than they currently have. But this is not something we want to discuss in this Chamber, because, apart from the centre and the Christian Democrats, all the parliamentary parties drove and supported Finland's accession to the euro area. After all, in the summer of 2015, I took a citizens’ initiative to organise a referendum on Finland’s membership of the euro area. These experiences were the background to this and, on the one hand, the awareness that Finland will continue to be a loser in the euro area and, on the other hand, the prospect of developing the euro area into a financial union, a debt union and a federal state and, on the other hand, we will lose our economic and, ultimately, political independence. More than 53,000 signatures were received and the initiative was submitted to this Parliament for discussion. The Council of Presidents intended to decide first that the matter should be dealt with only in the Constitutional Committee, but after the debate it was concluded that the Committee on Economic Affairs should be consulted. It is now interesting to note that the Council of Presidents again proposes that the initiative should be dealt with only in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I do not know the procedures, but if they do, I think we should decide that we should also ask the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for an opinion on this initiative. This initiative now includes two referendums to be held in the context of the European elections next spring. Originally I wrote this initiative so that it would only have dealt with Finland's membership of the euro area as well as that citizens' initiative, but I concluded that the same referendum could also take a position on Finland's membership of the European Union. After all, Finland's accession to the euro area was clearly unconstitutional and, in fact, it is also a considerable problem of legitimacy and legitimacy that weighs on accession to the European Union. It was explicitly stated at the time of the referendum on Finland's accession to the European Union that Finland's accession to the single currency was not decided here, and this position was also very clearly confirmed by Parliament. However, when, at the time, the Lipponen government went ahead with this accession to the euro zone, it was said that it was already decided in a referendum. This was a clear violation of the Constitution that this was the way it was done. Of course, formally everything is in order, because the majority of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs has always been pleasantly flexible in these interpretations. In the formal sense, there has been no violation of the Constitution, but in fact, of course, this has happened. Therefore, when accession to the euro area was actually decided at the time of accession, it is appropriate that citizens should be able to vote again on whether or not they accept Finland's membership of the European Union. This referendum would have two ballots, one of which would ask whether you would accept Finland's membership of the European Union and the other whether you would accept Finland's membership of the European Economic and Monetary Union. This bill goes through this very thoroughly: the justification, the experience of being part of the monetary union and the threats involved. First of all, this economic aspect: I said that if the Finnish economy had developed as well as Sweden, we would have had the same success and we would now have a much higher national income. Otherwise, there would also be a much higher employment rate. We would be at the Swedish level in the employment rate if we had had ten years of economic growth similar to that in Sweden. With regard to this comparison between Sweden and Finland, it can of course be argued that there are other factors. The fact is, however, that when Finland had joined the euro zone and began the international financial crisis, we had to suffer first of all from the fact that, when the euro was introduced, the euro was devalued strongly, and this led to the fact that the Finnish economy itself began to overheat. There was about a 30% devaluation. And just when this international financial crisis started, there was a 100% revaluation, i.e. the euro in relation to the US dollar, doubled. Well, this was accompanied in Finland by this unfortunate income policy solution — Sari Nurse — which ruined the competitiveness of the export industry. This led to the collapse of Finland’s economy and exports in about a quarter of a short time. When Sweden had its own currency — where too, of course, the financial crisis had a negative impact — Sweden became involved in economic growth and its fruits are now visible. For Finland, our weak competitiveness prevented us from rising from the background of the recession and became this decade of lost ten years. As far as the future is concerned, it seems very clear that a new crisis in the euro area, including a global crisis, is emerging. Many experts in the Committee on the Future have warned of this. There is a huge financial overcapacity in the world. The problem in the European Union is that the European Central Bank has pumped a lot of money into the economy of the euro area, and even Commissioner Katainen has warned in public that this excess liquidity is causing a crisis in the euro area. On the other hand, the economies of the United States and China also pose quite a global threat, and of course the global crisis would hit the euro area and Finland badly. Now the government prides itself on being prepared for the coming times when debt has been reduced. After all, the government is misleading Parliament when it talks about a budget deficit of over EUR 1 billion. There are export credit repayments, with a real budget deficit of over 3 billion, i.e. the government is taking over 5% of its debt — in the peak — and now that the next crisis comes, we are in a very difficult situation. There is no longer the buffer that has been able to be used for ten years by debt. On the other hand, there is the unfortunate aspect of the euro that those who believe in this euro project are now in favour of building a genuine economic union in support of the euro, which means, in practice, a financial union, a debt union and a federal state, and that is where our independence would go. We must quickly get rid of the euro area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u165	Mr President! The European Union was once sold to Finns not only with great hopes but also with false promises. In the run-up to the referendum on EU accession, politicians and the media declared that membership of the Union does not mean, for example, giving up our own currency or opening up our comprehensive social security system to citizens of other EU countries without restrictions. Well, what's the big deal? Now we see that these assurances were not at all true. The European Union is now completely different from the EU to which the narrow majority of Finns expressed their desire to join in 1994 in a referendum. Mr President! Finnish Euro-promoting decision-makers once justified Finland's accession to EMU with economic benefits, such as a stable economic environment brought by monetary union and closer integration of our country into the European internal market. However, a European comparison has shown that economic growth in the country is not dependent on membership of the euro area. One example of this is the Swedish economy, which is based on its own currency, which has grown more than many euro countries since the economic and financial crisis. During the euro area, structural differences in the economies of the euro countries have also increased in productivity and competitiveness. The euro has not narrowed the gap between the Member States, which has been offset by support policies, transfers of income and common debts. The euro area is also leading Finland increasingly into a spiral of misery, as our country lacks the flexibility of its own monetary policy in a context of negative economic development. Mr President! One of the biggest problems facing the EU today is undoubtedly the euro. The failure of the single currency and the rescue measures built around it weaken the EU economy. At the same time, they increase the vulnerability of financial markets to crisis. There is a great risk that, as a result of the forthcoming euro crisis, which will inevitably come and which will probably result in corrective measures, mutual trust between the EU Member States, economic morals will be permanently destroyed, and this is a very serious matter. The Member States of EMU have been responsible for the artificial respiration of the failed financial system, allowing banks to raise profits and socialising losses to taxpayers. Political regulation has served as an extension of the power of market players, even though it should protect citizens and market players from each other's arbitrary behaviour. It is not the role of the real economy to serve the financial system; it must be the other way around. Mr President! The euro is a completely unoptimal currency area, as it is made up of countries that are too diverse in terms of economies, languages, cultures and geopolitics. In order for the currency area to be genuinely operational, the environment should be as uniform as possible. Efforts are being made to alleviate the problems arising from the unoptimism of the euro area through the Banking Union and transfers between Member States, i.e. support packages. Keeping the euro area together will inevitably require increased solidarity, intensified integration, continuous transfers and the formation of a federal state. Current transfers from stronger economies to weaker economies are a condition for a functioning currency area. In this respect, I see that the EMU Member States have two options left in relation to the euro: the first is the separation from the euro, and the second is the deepening of the EU into a centralized transfer union and a federal state. In order to save Finland’s sovereignty and economy, the only responsible option is to separate from EMU and move from the euro into its own currency. Mr President! The EU is gradually developing into a federal state, and that is something I cannot accept. Nor can I support Finland in a non-functioning monetary union. I am therefore in favour of Finnish citizens being able to re-evaluate these memberships through a referendum. Finns have not yet been allowed to vote on Emu membership at all. Mr President! I am delighted that Mrs Väyrynen has taken the initiative in this debate, and I am pleased to say that I warmly support this initiative by Mrs Väyrynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u166	Mr President! It was the sovereign decision of the British people to leave the European Union in the summer 2016 referendum. However, the Brexit negotiations between the EU and Britain have not been conducted in a good spirit. The bureaucrats in Brussels have always wanted to make a warning example of Britain so that other nations would not be encouraged to leave EU-Colhos. Now that Britain is in a domestic crisis following the bad Brexit agreement, the question arises as to whether the EU is deliberately trying to create confusion in Britain in order to give up Brexit and force the people to vote again in favour of remaining in the EU. This is a familiar method from the past, including the referendums on the EU Treaty and the Treaty of Lisbon. EU values are a joke. The EU does not comply with its own rules, but when Member States oppose the abolition of borders, the removal of decision-making powers and the forced displacement of states by nationals of other countries, then the EU will start punishing its Member States and accusing them of violating EU values. Far gone have been the days in Europe when journalists, experts and university civilization dared to criticize Islam. The EU has fallen on the path of self-censorship. The EU will impose a fine of 10 million on social media companies if they do not remove false opinions. The EU surrenders in front of Islam. EU-criticalness is growing in Europe. On the other hand, the weight of the EU federalists is shaking because they even threaten war because nationalism and nationalism are on the increase. Nationalism and nationalism do not cause wars, imperialism and imperialist politics do. There is no internationalism without nations. Cooperation is an agreement, not a dictation of the EU. The euro is a failed project, the EU is a failed project. The story of the EU will end so that the story of sovereign states, such as Finland, can continue. I was born in Finland, my children were born in EU Finland, but I hope that my grandchildren will be born again in Finland. We, the Finns of Peru, want to join forces with other nationalists in the EU, stop federal development and dismantle this failed project so that it becomes a Europe of fathers, a free trade area for independent states. I also support Mrs Väyrysen's suggestion that we should also ask the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for an opinion. And I support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u167	Mr President! I, too, am such a Eurocritical and justify it a little. We are a small nation here in the periphery of Europe, but it is special: we have our own language, our own flag, which is not in the rest of Europe. But the big Europe with these decisions that have now been taken with regard to accession and so on will destroy and eat this country away, our culture will be destroyed and so on. There are concerns about everything else, but not about a normal Finnish person like this, his livelihood and culture, and so on. We'll forget about these. Among other things, booths and union squirrels are more important to this government, it seems. I have been criticised for being Eurocritical, even though we have had an export business in the past. I still am. I'll tell you a little bit about the Marka time. There was then an export guarantee agency that guaranteed trades throughout Europe: England, Germany, Italy, Spain. The Export Guarantee Agency said that they guarantee trades in Germany, England, Norway, but when we went to Spain and Italy, it was said that it would not be possible because these countries are culturally diverse and unreliable. How, then, can it be that they suddenly became reliable during the euro period? All the guarantees, and they all went along with it. All of a sudden, there were reliable lands with this bump from Lipponen's club. That's what I'm wondering. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u168	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u169	Mr President! Yes, my panel had a red color at the point where the request to speak is made. Mr President! I don't need ten minutes on this one. This bill is very important in principle. There are numerous practical examples in the organisation's life of how democracy within the organisation functions inadequately. Article 20 of the Association Act An order has been written in order to enable members of the association to have an extraordinary general meeting of the association to deal with the matter for which such a meeting is to be convened. And this can also be gathered for the election of a new government. There are cases in society where a government has been elected that does not enjoy the trust of the majority of its members. Article 20 of the Association Act provides a means by which a majority of Members can achieve their will. This is, however, watered down by the fact that the decision of the Regional State Administrative Agency to organise such a meeting can be appealed to the Administrative Court and therefore takes a very long time before such an extraordinary general meeting can be held. I have now taken a legislative initiative to correct this matter by adding Article 20a to the Association Act, entitled ‘A complaint against a decision of the Regional Administrative Agency’. This section should read as follows: ‘On the basis of Article20(3) of the Regional Administrative Agency,the decision authorising the association to invite Decisions of a general meeting held under this law shall be subject to the general provisions of the Association Act on the nullity or recrimination of a decision of an association.’ I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will have time to address this issue and take a position on it. This is of general importance and would ensure democracy in society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u170	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-15-ps-115.u171	Mr President! I know that the Constitutional Committee is very much employed. I do not know whether it would have been possible for the Committee on Legal Affairs to deal with this. Maybe not. This proposal to amend Article 32 of the Electoral Act is also very important in principle. After all, the electoral law is written in such a way that it seeks to safeguard the influence of the members of the parties, inter alia, by providing for internal voting procedures for the parties when candidates are put to the elections. However, there is a considerable deficiency in this electoral law. When elections are held, the Ministry of Justice must provide the election authorities with information on the parties entered in the party register and who are the signatories to these parties. The Ministry of Justice has adopted the interpretation that it is not for it to determine whether the signatory registered in the register has legally indisputable power to represent that party. This makes it possible for the party register to include a person who has been chosen to do the job by breaking the law and even by using criminal procedures. It would be important for the law to be supplemented in such a way that the Ministry of Justice would also be obliged to determine whether a party registered in the party register has a viable government capable of putting candidates to elections in accordance with laws and rules. That is what this proposal to supplement Article 32 of the Electoral Act relates to. I have also made a request for interpretation of this matter to the Chancellor of Justice in the event that this bill does not come before the next national elections. I hope, however, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will find time to deal with this important issue in the midst of its haste. - Thank you.
