ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. On 15 November 2018, the Council of Presidents proposed that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 November 2018. In the debate, Mr Väyrynen, supported by Laura Huhtasaari, has proposed, contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, that the Committee on Economic Affairs should deliver an opinion to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u3	Madam President! This proposal, the report of which we are now dealing with, proposes amendments to the Drugs Act which are linked to European Union legislation on the definition of drugs and the control of drug precursors. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has produced a very concise, short report on this, which is understandable because the timetable is very busy. This law should come into force this month and, on the other hand, the debate on the committee's report on social security has led to a considerable accumulation of things there. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u6	Let us take a few answers to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u7	Mr President! In this same debate, I would like to highlight the increased use of drugs by children and young people. Just recently, I attended a parent’s night in which parents from as many as five schools attended, and the subject of parental evening was the use of young people’s drugs. There were police officers, drug addicts, child welfare professionals, and parents themselves. The enormous concern that parents have today is precisely the fact that younger and younger children — I am talking about children, children aged 11 to 12 — and teenagers have access to drugs more easily and the threshold for drug use has fallen considerably. This can be seen, for example, in my own hometown of Espoo, where, when you have a driving licence and get to drive, as many as half — half — of the sentences are related to the use of drugs, not alcohol. Statistically, this has changed considerably from what was, say, ten years ago. Drugs are also sold openly, and police resources are very scarce.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u8	Madam President! So we are dealing here with new psychoactive substances, the so-called conversion drugs. There are hundreds of new psychoactive substances. In 2014, there were over 400 of them, and there will be more and more new substances. In fact, this is a problem that is quite heavily shielded to one country in the world, and that country is China, which has not banned these substances and where they are legal, and that means that in fact this business is operating very strongly in the world. This would be a place where, in fact, pressure should be exerted on China to ban the manufacture, transmission and sale of conversion drugs and their components. That's where these problems come from first and foremost. This has quickly exploded: even at the beginning of the 21st century, only a few dozen and now over 200 of these substances were identified in the Customs Laboratory, and there are still more and more of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u9	Madam President! This matter has been dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the draft law considers that new drugs should be taken into drug control more quickly than the UN decision-making process. I would also like to highlight the situation of young people myself. In my own hometown, Espoo, it was found that a lot of 13 to 16-year-olds were caught in a drug screening, and this substance abuse came as a surprise to my hometown, Espoo, as well as to child welfare workers. This is an alarming situation, but not only for young people. We have also recently read what is happening in the care sector. There are also situations where a nurse is caught, for example, using drugs or having taken medicines from the department. It would therefore be very important that attention be paid to this too. We have the Sora legislation, which enables, among other things, the completion of studies if such situations arise. When will it be discussed that the drug screening of healthcare workers will also be reviewed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u10	Mr President! Transformative drugs come from him — that is not the word I am now saying out loud here. Transforming drugs are extremely dangerous in the sense that they are killing very easily at the moment. More and more drug-related deaths occur because of the lack of knowledge to take drugs to make you feel comfortable or to become a zombie. But when a person becomes addicted, after that we are quite in the flowing water here in Finland. We have two types of treatment, non-pharmaceutical and medical care. When we use medical treatment, the so - called substitution treatment, the situation is that when a doctor writes a prescription for a medicine, the person is clean, but when the same person buys the same substance from a street store, the person is a criminal. These substances have the same effect all the time, for example in transport. We can't stop talking about drugs right now. We have to keep this up. In Vaasa, the youngest users are 11 years old.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u11	Mr President! We're talking about something important here. First of all, it has been observed from drug production in general in the world that many drugs are produced in crisis regions of the world, Afghanistan is an example of this, and once these crises and the crisis economy are contained, then a more useful form of production would be achieved in these regions. But I agree with Mr Heinonen that China is a real problem here, and I have often thought that the European Union's foreign policy towards China should also cover these conversion drug laboratories and all the evil that is happening there, and how it will be placed on the market in Europe as well. These are the real problem. Then, Mr President, as a final observation: In some countries, something is done right. This is the Icelandic model, where both alcohol and drug use have decreased in the case of young people in Iceland — there have been opportunities for hobbies, and alternatives have become available. Perhaps we should learn something from this Icelandic model that has been done correctly with young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u14	I will give three replies, and then we will go to the list of speakers, because we have quite limited time. Kurvinen, Tanus, Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u15	Madam President! This implementation of the EU standard in our national drug law will allow us to have a slightly broader debate on drugs policy, and I can share with colleagues across party boundaries the concern that has already been expressed here. In our rural areas too, on the plains of Ostrobothnia, the drug problem among young people is growing. It can almost be said that we used to talk about young people’s bagging, and sometimes we even miss the old days when we know how many of these cases occur, the use of drugs in young people of high school age. I am not in favour of giving up the criminalisation of drugs, I am not in favour of decriminalising them, but I personally see that this problem must be dealt with above all as a social and health issue, a social issue. It is also important that those with drug problems can come to the police and tell them about drug dealers and traders without being too afraid of the consequences. And community is needed just as Mr Haavisto well said: to have sensible things to do and other content in life than to have a mind of mind and good hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u16	Madam President! This is a very important and worthy initiative and, as has already been said in previous speeches, of course, the countries of origin, Afghanistan and China, with such mechanisms, should be held accountable and put to an end. But next thing I know, I'd be thinking about our Finnish police force: We would also need to have a lot more resources for what is on the street and at the corners of concerts and events. The situation is now that it says that everyone knows that substances are moving and are very easy to get on our streets, whether they are young or young. This should not be the case, so more resources must be made available for practical action. Then I would throw it to the ministry: could you think that there would be some kind of campaigning aimed at young people and children, especially those who have been addicted to drugs, that there would be a emphasis that the first experiment should not be started? Then this strengthening of parenthood is just as Iceland has become, and this is where I would throw it, when yesterday there was a‘Loneliness in many faces’ in the Citizen Info,that 5percent of the 8-year-olds in Finland are children who experience that they are always alone — 5percent of the 8-year-olds. This is reflected in the response of 18-year-olds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u17	Mr President! The race to the market for new conversion drugs is indeed a challenge, and not only is there a need for international cooperation here and there is a need for police resources, but there is also a need for Customs resources here. Customs, after all, has a very important role to play in the fight against the influx of drugs. Then I say to Mr Haavisto: This autumn, Tutkas made a study trip to Iceland, and indeed this was there in the focus on how the Icelandic people have succeeded in improving the well-being of young people and in the very important results they have achieved in terms of, for example, the use of young people's drugs. When I asked what was the key, the most important key, it was that there was provision for curfews for young people, that is, the very Community provisions on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u18	Let us go to the list of speakers, and we have five minutes to go to the list, and then we will have to stop because we need to get certain things going here. At least Mr Heinonen and We'll have time to take the corner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u19	Madam President! There has been a good debate here. Like a representative. Räsänen pointed out that in 2011 this was reformed in a certain way in such a neutral way of manufacturing or material, which was the right direction in which to react more quickly to these situations. This proposal is therefore part of the new EU legislation on psychoactive substances, the so-called conversion drugs legislation. In fact, as I said in that debate, most of these come from China, and Mr Haavisto pointed out that foreign policy measures should be strengthened in order to be banned by China. In fact, this week I remember reading the news that Posti was saying that he was still supporting imports from China to Finland in some way, i.e. the postal charges are lower there. Of course, the question now arises as to whether there is any basis for such action and whether it could even be slowed down by such a means. I understand that some of these are also such that certain ingredients may be ordered and will then be implemented through this. The situation has changed rapidly. At the beginning of the 21st century, only about 20 different substances were identified at the Customs Laboratory each year, now about 200. This proposal is necessary, the Police Government stated that these are necessary changes. Until 2014, we in Finland controlled these transformation drugs in two different legislations. However, this model, which was based, inter alia, on the pharmaceutical law, was questioned through the EU Court of Justice in 2014 and the situation arose that some were no longer illegal in a certain way. That pharmaceutical law contained 153 controlled substances. This is now being reformed and corrected in this urgent legislation. There are hundreds of new psychoactive substances, or conversion drugs. There were over 400 of them in 2014. At the moment, what we probably do not know, at least as legislators, and that is why there must be sufficient scope to intervene in these matters. Concerns about the number of new synthetic opioids are also evident. These are, in fact, even more dangerous than conversion drugs, and it seems that we legislators are always a step in the right direction, and that is why such non-manufacturing and material-neutral legislation is the only option in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u20	And one speaker is to be taken, Mr Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u21	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Narcotics Act. In line with the proposal, the provisions of the European Union on the definition of drugs and the control of drug precursors referred to in the law have been repealed and the law would refer to the new provisions in their place. I put a written question on this issue and an initiative for action already in 2016. It is therefore an excellent thing that this is now going to the finish line. We should take urgent action to introduce the generic classification of drugs in Finland as well. This bill is part of it and is therefore also very much to be welcomed. When a substance is defined as a drug, its production, manufacture, import into Finland, export from Finland, transport, transit, distribution, trade, processing, possession and use is prohibited under the general prohibition of the Narcotic Drugs Act. In Finland, the assessment of whether a new substance appearing on the market is to be considered a drug or a psychoactive substance prohibited from the consumer market takes place on a substance-by-substance basis. The challenge for this substance-specific classification model is that by making small changes to the banned substance a new substance will be introduced, which in turn must be classified as a banned substance in order to prevent its processing, and such new so-called related substances will be placed on the market at a relatively rapid pace, especially in Asia. In order to improve the efficiency of the system, the introduction of the so-called generic classification of substances has sometimes been proposed, and this classification has been introduced in some countries. The generic classification of drugs is that substances are classified and banned from the status of substance-specific classification by family of substances through a similar chemical structure. Such classification would be quite appropriate from the point of view of the Authority, as it would allow a rapid reaction to new substances and measures, such as the removal and disposal of the substance, without having to carry out an ex ante evaluation and classification of each individual substance. The underlying problem is known and has also been addressed. Nor is the idea of generic classification new. However, the generic classification of substances is not even unambiguous, even in the circles of chemical and pharmacological experts, and such a definition is unlikely to meet, for example, the requirements of the principle of criminal law. What is considered to be a drug was for a long time based on the drug lists of UN international conventions, which have been supplemented every few years. The relatively slow pace of complementing drug statistics in international agreements led to the adoption by the EU of a regulation that complements this system already in 1997. More recently, the main EU instrument is the Council Decision on the exchange of information, risk assessment and control on new psychoactive substances. In accordance with the Decision, Member States will report new psychoactive substances detected in the early warning system. The Council may decide on the inclusion of a substance in drug control. Substances considered to be drugs under this system are also identified nationally in Annex 3 to the Drugs Regulation. These systems were complemented by the Narcotics Act in 2011 by a national evaluation system. It states that substances notified to the EU early warning system can be investigated and considered as drugs in Finland. Substances and preparations designated as national drugs are listed in Annex 4 to the Drugs Regulation. In Finland, as in other countries, pharmaceutical legislation has also been used in addition to the slow-acting international drug detection process. In the pharmaceutical law system, new substances used for drug use may have been considered as drugs in a fairly rapid assessment. This allowed them to be subject to control measures and liability provisions contained in the regulation on medicinal products, including the provision on drug-infringement in Article 98 of the Medicines Act and the provision on penalties in Chapter 44, Section 5 of the Penal Code. The substance may have been classified under the Medicines Act as a drug in up to a few weeks. However, the basic tasks of pharmaceutical legislation are not really a tool for controlling drugs. The 2014 ruling of the EU Court of Justice confirmed this basic approach. The solution considered that certain synthetic cannabinoids could not be considered to be within the definition of a medicinal product in accordance with Article 1 of the so-called pharmaceutical directive. As a result, the regulation of the Narcotics Act was recently supplemented in 2014 by a system whereby new substances used for drug use can be classified as psychoactive substances banned on the consumer market. New conversion drugs placed on the market under this scheme can be controlled within less than a month. The system therefore aims to ensure that society can react to a rapidly changing transformation drug market. Chapter 44 of the Criminal Code was also supplemented by Section 5a on infringement of the prohibition on psychoactive substances prohibited from the consumer market. . Psychoactive substances are also used in industry and research as active substances in medicines, for example. Indeed, some psychoactive substances are also relevant to the EU internal market and its law. National restrictions, which vary depending on the Member State and the substance, may hinder trade in these substances for legitimate purposes. The objective of effective control in the regulation of KKP substances has also been achieved in such a way that, when the classification as a national drug is based on Article 3(1)(5) of the Narcotics Act,the fact that the substance is a health-threatening substance,in accordance with Article 3a(3) of the Treaty,that it may be a health-threatening part of psychoactive substances banned from the consumer market,it is not sufficient that the substance may be a health-threatening substance. I consider this government proposal to be very good and timely, and fortunately this is coming into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-16-ps-116.u22	For reasons of timing, the debate and proceedings shall be suspended.
