ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I may inform you that the nine points in the subject list have been withdrawn and the eleventh point has been left for another. First point in theme list: The question is, that the members of the legislatures of Jon Andon, the Governor of the United States, and the chief physician of the Autobernus, are asked by the State Government on the question of the regulating of this legislature. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Madam Garage, in this country, and in the public controversy, has been often spoken of by the powers of the State on the contrary, by the invasion of a great number of them, both of the executive, and of the legislative. In the introduction of the census for a silent Higura, you say, Mrs. Garago, by reports of the invasions of the late decades, that the jurisdiction of Euscadi has weakened, and that the State of Guernica has become worn out. This reality leads us to wonder what attitude the Government of the State might take towards the laws that we adopt in this Parliament. And the question is this: how do you assess, Madam Counsellor, the level of questioning of the state government around the regulatory production of this Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u3	President, President, head, chief of staff, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. CORAY, if we take data from the last three laws of Eucharistic, we can see that in this legislature the 83 laws and legislation have been accepted. These were transferred to negotiations of 20 sides, because he doubted his constitutionality. And lastly, there has not been an agreement in six, as a whole, and the Administration of the State has established a means of opposition to the constitution. In the case of these 20 hesitated regulations, the procedure of the 33.2 article of the Constitutional Law in the Organic Act has been set up. According to this article, the procedure is possible to obtain a twofold agreement on the interpretation of the constitution before it is invested with a certain rule. In short, almost 20 per cent of the legal rules adopted by this Parliament have followed the negotiation of article 33.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. In addition, 5% of the rules have been brought to an end in an action for unconstitutionality. Without going further, Law 2/2021, commonly known as the anti-pandemic law. In my view, the State proceeds to article 33.2 by displaying a supposed capacity for understanding and negotiation with autonomy, and in this way seeks to avoid any criticism that might be made of the lack of dialogue. Precisely, through the Moncloa press, last week it was announced that the Ministry of Territorial Policy has since the beginning of the fourteenth legislature reached a total of 135 agreements on competitive conflicts with the autonomous communities. This is, in his view - and I read between quotes - "a positive assessment of the policy of dialogue and permanent open cooperation with the autonomous communities, which reduces conflict and achieves agreements to resolve discrepancies, avoiding 135 remedies of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court". I close quotes. It is obvious to say that in order to reach an agreement the basic premise is that there is previously a disagreement. In our view, and without detracting from the prejudiced procedure, it should be noted that there is an excess of rigidity in the assessment of Basque laws. Excess that entails a tutelage lacking legitimacy on the part of the Spanish Executive on the rules approved by the Basque Parliament. I mean, it's hypermonitoring legislative production... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... by the Spanish Executive on the rules approved by the Basque Parliament. In other words, autonomous legislative production is being hyper-monitored, most of the times calling for indispensible clarifications or the redundant manifestation of state competition titles. Ultimately, in these cases, it is not seen that the objective of the agreement is to resolve a constitutional discrepancy, but rather to support in a more explicit way whether there are State competences, as well as to strengthen a communication policy that enhances and exaggerates intergovernmental collaborative relationships based on this (case?) harmful. It may therefore be observed, that the Common-wealth imposes excessive filter or control on the production of this legislature, without any danger of the performance of the lawful representatives of the Basque society, and the received works, as well as the reverence due to the rules admitted in this legislative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the Congressman of the Maddalen Irina Presidency, the budget of the President." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. The government has approved the budget project for the next year, and it's only been in this legal facility a few minutes ago. In the course of the week, we've heard the chairman of the department giving the chief figures of that budget and giving them the leading headlines. And we heard you say on Monday that the budgets are brave and anti-circle. In words, how much budget does this town require in terms of the social conditions of the present day, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Last Tuesday, the budgets of the project approved by the Council of Government, and which are now entrusted to the Basque Parliament, are what the inhabitants need, considering the social conditions of the present day. The previous project is the best answer to face and face the situation. That's why we've arranged it, agreed and agreed to that project. Also, we've been prepared to complete and improve the budget with the contributions we're receiving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u9	Thanks again. Bada, Urkullu jauna, irakuriko ditugu zehatz-mehatz aurrekontu horiek, zalantzarik ez iz iz; opituta gaude Gobernuak egiten dituente salmenta historikoak erealitatera jaisten. Because it doesn't even seem like they're the biggest in history – the one that's currently being handled, is bigger than the one approved, already surpassing this one – and, listen, a euro of 21 is not a euro of 22, and a euro of 22 is not going to be a euro of 23. And they are the most social, they say, of course, because they cannot be otherwise according to the subjects that correspond to us. And neither has the government announced any measures that indicate that they are courageous or countercyclical budgets, as you announced. Beraz, itxura guztien arabira, eskuadra eta kartaboi berdinarekin egindako aurrekontu kontserbadoreak dira. What is courage, Mr. Urkullu? Keeping public services? Is keeping courage? I thought it was very significant that, for instance, about the private security doctors in the gym, the one who's fired this week: New redard, 9,5% since pandemia began. And that makes it very clear about the situation of the Osar. And he who can pay, and he who cannot stand waits. On the other hand, what courage is the inexcusation of 2022's budget? ), I don't know, how many billions of investments, like this year, 14,000 euros, but if the government's credit is not filled, the government's credibility is airborne. As a matter of fact, Mr. Urkullu, you don't put space in it easy for each other. We're living a complex social situation, and I'm convinced that they're asking for co-operative ways of managing our roots. And what ye say is: "This is what it is." You'd think that he's a privativ de masterza, cudo el concioco exigae una colavorativa, cooperativa. Hay que tomar decisis mouth. "Decisis que condicione el futuro mouth, porque hay necesidad y hay conticiones." This is the time to make decisions because the time demands and because there are conditions. Now's the time to invest. And there are ways of investing the threads from which we can get them: The European funds, IMV, the mattress with the government, the boundaries of European deficits are temporarily suspended... "Y el dynero de su pollítica fiscal, acorada con el Parto Popular, que ha obtendi el esfuerzo de la mayoría de locos labororos." In the meantime, Porque, electric oligopoligologists and mygetics have been won up and up and up all the time. And hombre, it sounds like something to think about. It sounds like an idea, but it's not the time to talk about the prosecution. And this is not the time to adapt wages to the present social condition, as we agreed on our agreement. Hay que afrontar locas que ya conacemos, y anticiparnos a los grandes retos, señor Urkullu. We are going to transfer specific suggestions and commercial suggestions to the budget discussion, responsibility, and we believe that the budgets are the tools to choose the certainty that the citizens need now, and because they are important to get hold of the hinges we're looking forward to. We'll see if we get an answer to the size of it, and then we'll see if we can get an answer from people who get the big answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. The social condition, Mrs. Irrez, has the following characteristics: uncertainty, foresight of slowing the economy, and the negative consequences of inflation, especially in the weakest families. The conformity of the project supported by five reasons; one, it's social budgets... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... negative consequences, especially in the weakest families. The conformity of the project supported by five reasons; one, it's social budgets. Three out of four euros, a total of 10.25 million euros, will be directed to essential good society. Health and education are the most fostered; these services have been foreseen by 500 million euros more to strengthen. And that's our priority. Two, it's a cyclic budget. Public investment will grow 14,8% in front of a state taken from economics until the total of 1.800 Euros. Three, we've raised the news as a future bet. Public research and development investment has increased 12% until we reach 658 million, the largest in history. Four genera have extended to all public policies. In this goal, the directly integrated programs have reached 17%. And the five, the competitive industry, the first sector, we've made a bet in order to help small and medium companies and autonomies. Aurrekontuaren proyektua orekatua eta arduratsua da. Balanced, because it adequately combines support for the economy and employment with an equitable distribution of wealth generated through social policies. Responsible, because we keep the deficit at 0.6 % and the public debt at 13.5 % of gross domestic product. Last year we reached an agreement with your parliamentary group. You have participated in the quarterly follow-up meetings held. And we are fulfilling all the commitments that depend on the Government. Also the multi-annual commitments that compromise the next year's budget. The project for 2023 exceeds the current one by 1.1 billion. We are facing the highest budget in our history. It is a solid basis for reaching agreements. And from here we open the opportunity to dialogue and negotiate with the groups. You know that our willingness and willingness is clear, as reflected in the agreement reached last year, the basis for this project. The project of the ancients is a basis for agreement with parlamentary groups. We're ready to negotiate business. That's how we did it during the past events. Even this year, the door is open. And, as you know, we're fulfilling all our commitments to your team, including the years that are coming. That's our attitude. to obey the transparency and the given word. And the budgets of the bigness for the citizen, the citizens of the Araba, the Bizia, and the Gipuzia will be provided by the budget of the Aldudi and the municipal authorities, so that we can all face this situation in the neighbourhood. So, you know, I'm in my way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamorem, of the results of Euskal touralism after the summer campaign, and of its present situation." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u13	Thank you. Egun where we're supposed to be. Mr Councilman, today the Basque Socialists are asking you about tourism in Euskadi. Tourist activity accounts for 6.4% of our gross domestic product and is home to more than 100,000 jobs. From his latest statements and the data we have been able to learn, we can conclude that tourism in the Basque Country is in a clear phase of recovery. And that recovery is due to several factors. One of them is the institutional support that has been offered throughout this health crisis to the tourism sector both in the phase of resistance and in the phase of recovery. It should be borne in mind that 41% of the tourism sector in Euskadi has been supported by an ERTE. Direct aid granted by the Basque Government has also been important. Efforts have been made to promote destinations. He has also collaborated in reinforcement campaigns (...?)). Another important factor to be taken into account in this recovery is the work and the firm commitment to develop sustainable tourism in Euskadi, de-seasonalized tourism with sustained growth. And those who visit us, those who visit Euskadi, what they claim is a quality destination. And for that there is another important factor that has been involved in this recovery: and it is really that great professionalism has been demonstrated by the tourism sector and a great capacity for competitiveness. Today Euskadi stands before the world as an attractive but also competitive tourist destination. And you, who are a strong supporter of this evaluation of public policies to maintain them, correct them or even implement new policies to achieve effectively and efficiently the objectives that the Government has proposed, wanted, for the sake of that evaluation, to know the assessment that the Tourism, Commerce and Consumption Councilor makes of the tourist activity in the summer phase that has ended, although with the temperatures that it is making it can be questioned that the summer has really ended in Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u15	Thank you, señora, president. Good morning, everyone. And, first of all, I think we must remember, or we cannot forget – I do not do so – that the tourism sector has been one of the most affected sectors during the pandemic and that we were facing its recovery in 2022 with great uncertainty, but also with confidence in its competitiveness, in its professionals, in its strengths and that we had the necessary tools to support its reactivation. Well, by answering your question, we can confirm that tourism data is being very positive. With 3.2 million tourists we have grown 9%, from January to September, compared to 2019 and, in the specific case of summer, 15.2, counting the months of July, August and September. Although evolution is homogeneous, we already grow in the three territories. And above all, I would like to stress that we have recovered international tourism, with an increase of 7.1 over the previous figure. That's very good news for a sector that, as I was saying, has passed... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... international tourism, with an increase of 7.1 over pre-covid figures. That's very good news for a sector that, as I was telling you, has had a very bad time. And I'm saying it at the same time that I'm saying that we're not in an incremental race. But we cannot forget where we came from and how important it is for the sector to be placed in these pre-pandemic figures in order to be able to develop its activity and, above all, to maintain employment. And it is that in Basque we have a model of sustainable tourism management that we have consolidated in the last decade. At the moment we are one of the autonomous communities with the lowest contribution of GDP by tourism: a 6.4. Far below the average in Spain and behind other neighbouring communities. And yet, the contribution to tourism employment to the Basque economy is almost 11%, higher than many other communities with higher tourism GDP. This means that the Basque economy is a diversified and resilient economy, and that our tourism industry has the capacity to continue to develop without losing that value and quality that you mentioned. But we're not going to get carried away by complacency. We will continue to drive a model on which we believe and which is based on sustainability in its three aspects: environmental, socio-cultural and economic. For this it is key to know them and to rely on data to know what decisions we should continue to make. That is why we have decided to incorporate the most innovative programmes into tourism management. One of these projects is the Tourist Intelligence System, the SIT, which we presented a couple of weeks ago and which is already integrated into the Tourism Observatory. The SIT is based on the comprehensive analysis of different sources to load, process and analyze information that we transform into useful knowledge. A system that we put at the service of all administrations, but above all at the service of the sector and its professionals in order to be able to make informed decisions and to contribute to the balanced development of our territory and to the increase, especially of competitiveness. We can't lose data because we'd lose opportunities. The SIT allows us to consult the quantitative data of entrances, overnight stays, occupation temporarily and territorially. In addition, with the incorporation of various sources and studies and reports, it gives us relevant information about the behavior of tourists, the characteristics of their journey, their motivations, their origin, studies (reponsible?), ranking of destinations and many other variables that help us make decisions related to tourism management. I invite all of you to visit our website. This is a living and continuously improving tool. And in that it is also necessary to have the help of all those who will use it. The SIT is another example of the importance of working with all coordinated administrations to share sources, studies and reports with the common goal of continuing to drive a competitive sustainable destination that contributes to the economic and cultural development of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Podemos IU team made to the president about the agreement for the transformation of euscal education." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. It's seven months since we signed an agreement on the education system, sign that deal after a good job. And when we participated in it, we were aware of our reality. On the one hand, ex-determinity in the Euscata education system. It was based on a universal concentration that brought the offer, and produced the segregation together with the uncontrolled collection. And in addition to this, it did not guarantee the importance of the Public Basque School properly. These points, considered by the Radicals, began our work, and we succeeded in inserting a bet on the public school in that pact. As I say, it has been seven months since we reached that agreement to promote and strengthen public school. And what I ask you, lehendakari, is: what steps has this Basque Government taken so far to ensure the essentiality of the Basque Public School? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatage, good morning. Since April 7th, after the treaty of education has been signed, the government is loyal to it and has been working to bring it back to the new text of the law and to continue strengthening the public school. And I'll take four steps. One: On the 26th of May, the Board of Education agreed with the unions most common in public education: STETERS, LAB, CCOO and UGT. Most of the commitments we've made on this deal are on the move and they'll all be filled up. Two: On the 20th of June, the head physician introduced the calendar to start the 43 arranged activities after the agreement. These activities are filling up. Three: On September 30th, the Board of Education has called Professor 3.178 by merit competition. Before the end of the year, he'll print the call that'll have about 4,000 squares. In everything, therefore, public work offering to fill 7,000 squares will be set to work. And four: The law pre-reading bill has been in public until 13th of October. All of that is 35 proposals that are now being examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u21	It has numbered a number of measures, but the truth is that the bet on the essentiality of the Basque Public School is not reflected in any of them. In the enlargement of the perimeter, for example, we certainly don't know anything about it. Nor does universal concertation seem to be being stopped for the time being. Especially because we still do not know what the requirements for conciliation are, specific requirements that were discussed in the pact that were to be demanded. Of course, what we so far know as the main normative work of the Government, in addition to the decrees and... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... that was spoken in the covenant they were going to demand. Of course, what we know so far as the main normative work of the Government, in addition to decrees and orders or projects, of the draft decrees that we have already talked about, is the draft, the preliminary draft education law. And, of course, it is a bill that really does not guarantee anything that has to do with the Basque Public School, it is drafted in such a general, general way that it can be interpreted and executed in a way or the contrary, and that really worries us. It is no coincidence – and I would also like to point out to you, Lehendakari – that it is no coincidence that in the Euskadi School Council the report that the Euskadi School Council made on the preliminary draft law, which was passed, which said that this preliminary draft respects the pact, however, was approved with the contrary vote of all the agents of the Basque Public School. All this is not by chance, and I believe that your Government has to take it into account, it has to realize where the shots go, what is going on. And what I have to ask of you is that, please, you give a rudder change, and that you insert into the bill that you present in the Basque Parliament, that you actually insert the mechanisms that make the Basque Public School the backbone of the system, as decided in the negotiation that led to the educational pact in Basque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. You have received detailed information and complete information about the four steps described in the first round. I have the feeling, I have for me that you want to counter that there is the law of Basque public school and that we are talking about the law of education. We're talking about the education law. The essentiality of the Basque public school is guaranteed by the agreement we have signed in this House, because this is reflected in the law, by the agreements reached with the unions, by the budgets we are proposing, by the 43 commitments we have made. The department attends the Follow-up Committee on the Education Pact on a quarterly basis to report on the progress of these 43 commitments, Mrs Gorrotxategi. The last meeting took place on 5 October, and his group, first of all, was aware of the Government's express commitment to strengthening the weight of public schools and to combating segregation. The essentiality of public school is guaranteed, starting with the text of the law that you already know. I read the explanatory statement, he says: "This law does not forget the protagonistism that in the Basque educational system corresponds to the Basque public school, basic reference that guarantees universal access for students". The bet on the Basque public school, Mrs Gorrotxategi, is on our show, and is beyond doubt. You are talking about trade unions, but you do not say that on 26 May we signed an agreement with the majority trade unions to modernize and strengthen the Basque public network. I would like to see a public, public assessment of what has been the implementation of those agreements. All the commitments are being fulfilled, and this course has been reinforced our public centers with 723 more professionals than the previous course, and this course we will call public offers of employment with more than 7,000 places to reduce the interinity. The Education Act is a country objective, and in addition to the parliamentary agreement, work has been done with the educational community, with associations of mothers and parents, with the management of public institutions, with professionals and with the Euskadi School Council, which has approved the report by a majority, in fact. There are more agreements than disagreements. Still, we will continue to take steps, that is, with whoever is willing to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, "To accept the popular team of Carmelus Barroja Barrocals-Ciudadanos for the development of economics, standoffing, and Environmental Department of Economics, to the decision taken from the "The Mahasty of the Acavours/ Viños de Álavá" protected origin, and to the decree taken by the 7th of October 2022." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u25	Thank you very much, President, good morning, Lehendakari, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, Mrs Tapia, you have to explain to us all these hurryes for dividing a brand, a designation of origin, as Rioja is. Rioja is the most powerful Basque brand in the world. Favoring the breakup or division of this powerful brand is a new form of internationalization of our economy. We don't see any sense in you, Mrs. Tapia. The situation created is backward. It could be said that we have a commercial brand of our own, shared, but ours, important and unitary. The classified designation of origin Rioja is a guarantee of success on one side and on the other side of the Ebro. And now what is being internationalized is a mess around the wine, an injury to the brand. What are the differences between vineyards of Labastida, Samaniego, Ábalos or San Vicente de la Sierra, neither by vineyards, nor by soil, nor by climate. They're the same thing. That is why, after the adoption and publication of the above-mentioned order of the Councillor for Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment, serious difficulties have been revealed that such a decision can lead to serious problems in the wine sector of Rioja Alavesa. And that is why, Madam Counsellor, we ask you why all this complication has been allowed, which we will see, we see, we are seeing, it has many derivatives, what were these reasons assumed by your department to provoke this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. President, President, head of the department, and members of the legislature, good morning. Good morning, Mr. Barrio. Well, I'd like to say something from the start, and it's the original nomination. I mean, a protected family name, the Mahasty of the Araba doesn't approve of you, it's not our competition... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... and this is the original nomination. That is to say, the protected Mahasty of the Araba doesn't approve of you, it's not our competition, it's the European Union, it's about Brussels. And he's checking this file right there, and we've started the treatment. And this is essential to know what we're doing and how we're doing it. It is a truncated issue, therefore, because, on the basis of its powers, it is Brussels that will define and approve the protected designation of origin that we have dealt with from the Basque Government. The only reason to proceed with the granting of your transitional national protection, as you certainly know, is precisely to continue an administrative process that began with the receipt, study and processing of the application for a new protected designation of origin by a private promoter. Prisons, none. Just the opposite. Processing has been carried out in a detailed manner and with sufficient time. At all times since the Basque Government, the legality and its role as a processing agency that starts the process in 2016 - for you to tell me that we are doing it in a hurry - has been respected. At the initiative of ABRA, a private winery association, having all the decisions taken in the relevant... with the relevant technical and legal endorsement, and on the part of the Basque Government, it is up to us to exercise our responsibility. And to conclude with this first part of the answer, I would like to ask for respect. I respect the decisions taken by the Basque administrations in exercise of their responsibility, and by the wineries of Rioja Alavesa, whether they are in favour of taking advantage of a new framework such as that laid down in Arabako Mahastiak-Vineyards of Álava, or those that have decided and decide to continue within the framework offered by the designation of qualified origin Rioja. These are legitimate, voluntary business decisions. A right protected by Community law, and a capacity that the wineries possess to initiate a process of differentiation, of creating new frameworks for the marketing of their wines. And, ultimately, I insist, private decisions. For our part, paternalisms none. I absolutely respect your decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u29	Thank you, President. Mrs Tapia, and we ask you to respect the most commercially powerful brand that the Basques have. We ask you to respect that mark and that designation of origin. Mrs. Tapia. Let's see. You have enough mechanisms - and you know it - to avoid manoeuvring that will harm us. You have enough mechanisms. Those maneuvers that harm us have even been identified by the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to this situation, with its negative reports to all this. I mean, you have enough mechanisms. He's got them in the industry, he's got them in the automotive sector to boost it, of course. But it has mechanisms to prevent the damage, in this case, to the agricultural, wine-growing issues that we are talking about. Counselor, something's not right, something's not right. The red carpet treatment you've given them to a new Rioja Alavesa name has blown up all the alarms. We saw this weekend the hoteliers, the entrepreneurs of tourism, wine tourism in La Rioja. They're absolutely alarmed. I don't know what that would look like to Mr. Hurtado, but that, that's right. There's a problem, Mrs. Tapia. A problem is being created where there should be no problem. The farmers of Rioja Alavesa have many other problems: the price of the grape - which you know it well -, labour reform and its impact on the sector, agricultural insurance, the Disaster Compensation Fund. Those are the fundamental elements that need to be addressed, not create further complications. And other issues that you can do yourself: hand over the Basque Government's position on the Rioja Origin Regulatory Council to someone closer. To the Foral Division of Álava, for example, who is very concerned too and its technicians in relation to all the mess you are putting together. And now the same comes to us with the subject of Bordeaux, as the PNV has already said. No, no. Bordeaux is not a model, we have the Rioja model. That works fine. Bordeaux is something else. But it does have an interprofessional council that works with all members of the brand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u31	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Barrio, I love that you're being made, that you're standing as a representative of those private people who make their private decisions. Where is the Basque Government's lack of respect for DOC Rioja? Where is he? We participate loyally in all... in all the meetings, and of course we're not going to let anything go. Who's harming this, who's harming it? Of course, to harm someone, those wineries who make the decision to leave a known denomination and move on to another denomination. In any case, it would harm those people, no one else, no one else. And it's a decision, I insist, private and voluntary. The Ministry of Agriculture, by the way, exactly as the Basque Government, has processed the file in Brussels. Exactly the same. Concern in La Rioja. Man, as advisor to the Basque Government I care about Rioja Alavesa and for Euskadi as a whole. De La Rioja will of course take care of her president and her adviser. And why isn't he the Bordeaux model? Why not? Because you say so? What is the difference between the Bordeaux model and the one that can be established here in Euskadi? Exactly the same. Exactly the same could be established. However, it is the Regulatory Council of the Rioja DO that does not want it. Well, we discussed it there. But we are not able to establish that debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Amaia Martíne, Greyleña Mistto, a member of the Vox team for the head physician of the Medical Department, to guarantee security in the hospitals of the Esinomical Hospitals. " Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. On the night of Wednesday to Thursday last week, a woman kidnapped a newborn baby at Basurto Hospital. The quick reaction of the parents, the work of the Ertzaintza and citizen collaboration made it possible for this terrible story to have a happy ending. Happy ending that does not prevent us, even today, from asking ourselves how it is possible that something like this could happen. It is obvious that something is failing in Osakidetza's protocols to ensure safety in their hospitals and, above all, in maternity services. Could something like this happen again today? Let us therefore ask you, Mrs Sagardui, what improvements the Basque Government's Department of Health plans to incorporate into the protocols, in order to ensure the maximum possible safety in the hospitals of the Basque Autonomous Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. By Christmas, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u36	Mr. President of the Parliament, President, congressmen, chief officers, good morning. First of all, and as I did on Thursday 20th, I want to express the joy of the department, shared with the whole of society, for the happy end of this event. I also want to transfer all our support and closeness back to the family. We continue to take care of the baby's health and its matxo, and we will continue to be at your disposal. And I would like to reiterate my congratulations to the Ertzaintza, to the entire Department of Security represented here by his advisor, his promptness and his great performance, as well as to the Bilbao Municipal Police and the citizenry for their cooperation. Replying to your question, on the same day, October 20, the Osakidetza Patient's Corporate Security Team met with the senior managers of the Basurto Hospital. Osakidetza has a patient safety strategy that sets out the steps to follow when an event or serious case occurs or a malfunction of the safety protocols is detected. Thus, on Friday 21, it was the group of security references of Gestation, Parto and Puerperio that met. We have not yet come to its final conclusions. But it is clear that, if the baby's abduction was completed, the circumstances for it were given; and, in addition to identifying these important circumstances, what measures can be incorporated into the protocols to reconcile the patient's safety with the closeness and human warmth that health care requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Martíne, ma'am, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u38	Mrs Sagardui, following the abduction of Aimar, we have had details of a security protocol in the unknown maternity units for whom we have been parents for a long time. A protocol which, as we have seen, was also unknown to the parents concerned - supposedly -. According to them, no one had informed them that the tests to be carried out by the newborn should be carried out on foot; nor was it necessary to carry them out outside the room, and in this case, a father would have to accompany these babies. Therefore, the first obvious failure, Mrs Sagardui: couples do not get the information we need. The protocol doesn't circulate. But there's more. A woman wandering, with absolute freedom, through the Maternity Unit of the Hospital of Basurto, dressed in a sanitary uniform, apparently, going from room to room, until she found a baby she could kidnap. No one noticed in his presence, no one asked him anything, no one thought it strange that he was there. Second ruling: anyone can walk freely through the maternity service of a Bilbao hospital, as if he were another professional. And both failures are easily detectable, they don't need much time to identify them. You yourself were aware of all this minutes after you were informed of what had happened. However, days later, a means of communication decided to check what was happening in access to hospitals in the maternity area, whether emergency measures had been taken to prevent such events from happening. And he confirmed what the hospital workers had said hours and days before: that the security measures were shining for their absence and that by the Hospital de Basurto anyone wanders in complete freedom; at the Hospital de Basurto and also at the largest in the Basque Country, at the Hospital de Cruces. And this leads us to a third failure: neither the Department of Health nor the Osakidetza Directorate activated emergency measures to immediately improve hospital safety. Nor at Basurto Hospital, where what we all know had just happened. Now, you are asking for more time to review the protocols, to analyze what has happened with greater perspective, but, in no case, that extension that you are asking for can be translated into inaction, which is what is taking place. The protocol in force, implemented in 2014, two years after the abduction of a newborn at the Donostia Hospital, seems to be all about having a parent with their baby at all times, but within the hospital many things happen, the case is so varied that it does not seem reasonable to leave everything in the hands of parents. Therefore, we ask you: are you going to clean up responsibilities or are you going to run a tupid veil waiting for Animar's kidnapping to disappear from the media to leave everything as it is? Mrs Sagardui, today you have a magnificent opportunity to explain what you have failed and how you are going to correct it, how you are going to reassure patients and professionals, how you are going to regain the confidence that this fact has left so touched. It should be very simple: a simple exercise of transparency: this happened, this failed and we are going to correct it. Because, Mrs Sagardui, it is now beginning to be time for answers and also for debugging responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u40	Beyond the responsibility of the person who stole the baby, which corresponds to the judicial sphere, we are analyzing the three circumstances that have made it possible, in our view, for this to happen. The validity or adequate compliance with the protocol "Do not leave me alone", the identification of people who work in the hospital environment and whose supplantation... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... the validity or adequate compliance with the protocol "Do not leave me alone", the identification of persons working in the hospital environment whose supplantation occurred in the theft of the baby and accessibility to the hospital centers. But we do it from the reality and with what is established as a procedure to do so, because there is a follow-up to the security measures, Mrs Martínez; not from the news that is published in the media. The combination of these three elements that I have mentioned - and, in addition, that you also had the opportunity to comment with me on what happened next - has been the one that effectively made it possible for the baby to be stolen. But I do not want to go ahead with the conclusions that the working group makes available to us, because that is its role and that is why there is a procedure for when one of the protocols we have, whether security or assistance, does not work properly. The identification of problems seems a simple exercise, easy to say, but the search for an alternative, a measure is not so much. And that's what you're working on, too. The safety of the patient is not a mere control of access, Mrs Martínez, it has to do with many factors such as the adequacy of the treatment to be established, the quality of care, human treatment; and the closure to lime and chant of hospitals goes against these principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, Amaia Martíne, the Grey-Battilla Misto, the member of the Vox team, the president's lack of security." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u42	Good morning again. Citizen insecurity is one of the main issues of concern to Basques. This feeling is supported by the increase in crime in the Basque Country in recent years. From Vox we consider it a political priority to combat crime to increase levels of citizen security. On the contrary, the Basque Government usually lowers the situation in this section, conveying a worrying image of satisfaction and self-congratulation. We therefore ask you, Mr Lehendakari, what assessment does the Lehendakari make of the situation of public insecurity in the Basque Country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u43	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, good morning. According to data from this October's Sociometer, only 10% of Basque citizens believe that crime or public security is one of the three most important problems in Euskadi. According to the Department's study on victimization and perception of citizen security every two years, only 2.9 per cent of citizens claimed in December 2021 that crime and citizen security is a problem of concern to them. Eskerrik akso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u46	Mr Lehendakari, citizen insecurity has become the fourth concern for citizens, according to the last Deustobarometer. And, therefore, it is a priority for the Basques. The fourth concern. As you can see, we handle different figures and information. Mr Lehendakari, the crime photography of 2021, according to your own data, even though they were slightly made up, is worrying. More than 111,000 criminal offences, more than 33,000 thefts, more than 13,000 thefts with violence and intimidation, more than 800 sexual assaults. And, since 2017, about 1,200 housing occupations have grown by 60%. But perhaps the most worrying thing is that crime in the Basque Country in the first half of this year, far from decreasing, has increased by 25% over the same period of the previous year. There has been a 94% increase in violent robbery, a 24% increase in house theft and a 31% increase in sexual assault. I can't understand you telling us that everything is phenomenal and that we have great data. Mr Lehendakari, it is not about generating social alarm, it is simply necessary to report a reality that is constantly growing. Makeup, sweetening or just looking away is not the solution. To suffer a robbery in the house, in your home, in your business, to be the victim of a skilled purser, of a malefactor with a white gun or to have you evicted an occupied one, is, of course, not something unusual between us. On the contrary, every day is something more common. The recent aggression suffered by an 11-year-old girl in Otxarkoaga, the fight with large-scale white weapons that took place last Saturday in Algorta or the occupation of a home in Vitoria and whose complaint was known last weekend are just some of the examples of a reality that continues to grow. Mr Lehendakari, the Basque Country is not a haven of peace or the oil raft that it wants to transmit to us. In the Basque Country we live many good people, but we are not strangers to crime. And, of course, not all of us who are living in Euskadi act like good Samaritans, you know that. The Basque Country is not the New York Bronx, but neither is that romantic oasis where the Basques live in a state of permanent zen or that bucolic rate of the lush meadow of philanthropy in which all their neighbors were twinned and behaved kindly with their neighbor; we know that it is not so. Mr Urkullu, he spends too much time in the official car and no longer feels, I believe, the pulpit of the street. What I would do is what in his day that slogan, I don't know if he will remember the former mayor of Bilbao, Mr Azkuna, and today declare war on the shipwreck. And, of course, it also includes illegal occupation, which is an increasingly serious social problem in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u47	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours. [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...is the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, for starters, I am not going to go into the game of contrasting the data of the Sociometer with those of the Euskobarometer, with those of the Deustobarometer, with any other study. I am referring to those of us who make them under our responsibility. Man, if you refer to the years 2020-2021 without taking into account the periods of confinement, the periods of lack of mobility of citizens, and that is where your interpretation is based, then it seems to me that it is a basic error. In any case, the memoir on crime for the year 2021 states that there has been a 8 % decrease in the number of criminal offences compared to 2019, and more specifically, the decrease was 11 % in crimes against property. According to the data published, Mrs Martínez, for the first half of this year, Euskadi is below the average of the State in crimes per 10,000 inhabitants. All this data is objective and public, and it works in your power, Mrs Martínez. This is no sign of complacency or complacency. It is a sign of an objective, not demagogic or apocalyptic analysis of reality. My assessment is that we must continue to improve, as we have been doing to date. No complacency, therefore; we have to keep improving. And, in fact, we have recognized that there has been an increase in three criminal areas: sexual freedom, hate crimes and computer crimes. And in the first two cases we are faced with a rise in criminal offences rather than a real increase. Facts that citizenship previously did not perceive as potentially criminal are now perceived, and denounced. And we are succeeding in reducing the hidden crime that already existed but was buried. This is a positive fact, because it reveals the success of awareness-raising and social awareness-raising policies. We are moving towards a society with zero tolerance for violence against women. A society with zero tolerance against discrimination on grounds of race, origin, sexual orientation, religion or ideology. With regard to computer crimes, it is true that they have increased. And we have presented to this House the actions and measures that Ertzaintza is deploying to tackle the phenomenon of cybercrime, which is growing in Euskadi and throughout Europe. The Basque Institute of Criminology has carried out a comparative study, and concludes that, taking Western Europe as a context, Euskadi is a reasonably safe country. Crime rates in Euskadi fall below the main European countries in the most relevant types of crime: against people's lives and physical integrity, against assets with violence, against sexual freedom and against public health. It's public data. These are objective data, although I reiterate that we must continue to improve. And one way to improve is, too, to move forward in the generational relief. The Academy has convened in three years the same number of squares as in the previous ten years. And, in a total staffing of 8,000 tortoises, the renovation of almost a quarter of the total number of troops is being addressed in three years. Safety is not guaranteed by demagoguery and alarmism. It is guaranteed with the four pillars of security in Euskadi: proximity, prevention, innovation and comprehensive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Amaia Martína Mistha-Vox's parliamentary colleague to the president, EIBk a song from Jono Kupa Paroten and a video." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, a few days ago, in the Faktoria program, Maddalen Arzallus, within his usual weekly collaboration in EITB, played a song of tribute to the terrorist Ion Parot. The recording was broadcast in a video on social media that was later removed, that is, when the damage was already done. Mr Urkullu, we are very interested in hearing your opinion, but first let us offer you ours, because we have something to say. In the song there was a parallel between the terrorist's years in prison and certain passages in the interpreter's life. Phrases such as: "What are 32 years old? One life, two?"; reminders of his university years, or reference to the removal of the last nail at the door. A whole ode to a terrorist responsible, among others, for the attack on the Zaragoza barracks, where 11 people were killed, including five young girls. Mr Urkullu, what would you say to the relatives of the girls who lost their lives in the Zaragoza bombing and who never turned 32? What would you say to the relatives of those girls killed by Parot who could never get to college? What would you say to those family members of those innocent girls whose vital pestilence finally shut down the terrorist Parot? Would you be able to look them in the eye and keep an eye on them? If I were responsible in this public body, I couldn't keep an eye on them. But if serious is the participation sung in the aforementioned program, greater gravity contains the publication on social networks of a video with the song played, since this is the confirmation that everything was organized in a premeditated way and that it had the consent, and even the applause, of the leaders of the program. Mr Urkullu, perhaps today, as on previous occasions, at best, play the role of a good cop or a bad cop – I don't know how it will go – or you will surely accuse me again of demagogy, as is customary in this House. But if their actions are not accompanied by a cleansing of political responsibilities it will simply be a posture, lacking the slightest sensitivity in a fact like this. We believe that the collaboration will have been completed, and we look forward to its confirmation. The opposite would overwhelm the political horn. But an indignity of this nature deserves as a relief to the victims a purification of political responsibilities on their part, as the ultimate responsibility of this government, Mr Urkullu. What has happened seems an indignity to us. And you? What has happened seems to us to be a humiliation to the victims. And you? And if you agree with us, Mr. Urkullu, are you going to stop someone in this case? We are not prepared to naturalize, as happens in the Basque Country, that a program of public entity, paid with the money of all Basques, is erected in loudspeaker and in voluntary and complacent collaborator... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... that a public agency program, paid with the money of all Basques, be erected in loudspeaker and as a volunteer and complacent collaborator to exalt the figure of a terrorist. Now, Mr. Lehendakari, it's your turn. And although with little hope - we do not know if he will give us the reason or, on the contrary, as usual, he will give the reason to the other bench - we want to hear what you have to tell us about it. We therefore ask you, Mr Lehendakari, the following question: Does the Lehendakari consider it appropriate that EITB as a public body should serve as a speaker and a space to exalt the figure of a convicted terrorist, such as Ion Parot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u51	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u52	Mr. President, President, members of the government, members of the legislature. In the name of the Government, and in the name of the President, I mean, Mrs Martín, that we feel what has happened to all the victims who have been victims by violence. And we mean it was unjust. It was unfair. "Sensos el dolor que et ha causado a todas las vactimas de su activendad terrorist y consideramos que fue injusto." With regard to the EITB issue, this Parliament has a specific parliamentary committee to monitor and monitor its activities. And EITB has a board of directors representing this House and the entire Basque society. And we think that it is in those forums where the issues relating to EITB control need to be raised. And as a Government we respect those forums, their autonomy and their functions. And, similarly, as a government we respect the criteria and decisions of EITB in its social work as a public means of information and communication. We respect the autonomy of the Basque public media and the professional criteria with which they carry out their work, both in the information services and in the other contents and programmes. In this context of respect and autonomy for decisions, we believe that the reply given by the Director-General of EITB has been correct and appropriate. According to him, he reported at the last meeting of the board of directors, at the time he learned that EITB's media were disseminating this video through its website and social media made the decision to withdraw it. As a Government, we share the decision taken and accept the explanations offered by him. We have no doubt about the commitment of the general leadership of EITB, expressed repeatedly in a clear and consistent manner, with democratic values, coexistence, respect for victims and memory in our country. This commitment is part of the idea of the Basque Government, this Parliament and the public media of EITB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u54	I just want to say, Mr. Counsellor, that I share part of what you have said. But I can't share that you tell us that a paid public entity with everyone's money is an entity that can do its work freely; there has to be a control. And I am accredited to either take this issue to the EITB Control Commission or bring it freely to a control, to a control like the one I am bringing today, a full control. And I think in that I have my freedom to do so without you questioning it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u55	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u56	Chief of Parliament. Mrs Martinez, I am no one to question your rights. You have the right to come here to ask for an explanation, and that's what you've done. And I am giving you an answer from respect for the autonomy that every parliamentary and administrative body has. And I tell you that, as we have ordered our system of relations between this Parliament and a means of public communication such as EITB, there are the relevant monitoring bodies. I insist, you are free to do as you please. Nor do I have any doubt that the Director General of EITB, since EITB is a means of public communication, must do... must make the ethical commitment and respect for the framework of memory and coexistence prevail. EITB must act at all times with clarity and rigour and maintain its firm commitment to ethical and democratic coexistence. And in the case before us, the Director General himself has clearly stated that the content of the song violates the principles and the articulation of the Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism. He stated that its content is contrary to EITB's commitment to contribute to coexistence in Euskadi. It is a commitment contained in the Government Programme, in the programme contract and has been presented by the Director-General himself to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The tenth point in the subject list: "These interpelations will be discussed at once: An Interpoonation by Jule's Arzuga Guuzi EH Presidency Presidency Presidency Presidency and Security Commander, in order to clear the precautions given by the Police Control and Gardening Committee on an attack made by the Bordering Act. An Interpelation, made together by the members of the Podemos-Nodemus, a member of the United States and Security department of the Basque Autonomy Police and the first report of the Central Board of Gardeny. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u58	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everybody. I grant that I have been sceptical with this control and Gardeny Board, because its initiative depends on the initiation of the chief physician, because the member within the border is composed of services or members... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... Because with this board its initiative depends on the initiation of the chief physician, because the member within the edge is composed of services or members, especially because the social part is greatly reduced. And since by law it had been admitted three years ago, because it had not yet had time to appear before this legislature. However, I must say that an attack on June 2021 in the Bilbo San Francisco district has been received from his report on the edge. And I admit that in this report his opinion is firm, stiff, and even strict, as well as that, the recommendations he makes are also severe. And what happened and what does this committee tell about what happened in Bilbo? In the first place, it must be said that it takes upon itself the relatation of the facts which it performs. It's true that there hasn't been any criminal consequences since, because I've temporarily filed this case. But he accepts the facts he has received. Eta zentzuk say hauek? Two boys are harassing several girls in the San Francisco neighborhood, a total of seven ertzainas who, according to the commission, are being pushed to a place outside the surveillance camera filming area. First irregularity. They know there are these cameras and they want to hide from them. For what? Well, surely to assault them without being recorded by the cameras. This concealment fails and the images reveal the disproportion of the use of the force of the Ertzaintza and the Committee on Control and Transparency collects it: "It is appreciated that being subject one of the reported, an agent punches him in the face at a short distance". A direct, populistic slang. He continues in the commission: "Being held by his arms, the same agent throws two kicks that reach the torso area and make him fall to the ground, receiving another kick as he falls." Braided on the floor with some trampling on the legs. Quiet against the ground receives in his face the boot of an agent. One of the agents who's crouching over the guy tipped him three or four punches in the face. Horiek will say egitateak batzordeak jasotzen says. Have you mediated any provocation from young people for this treatment, for this act of violence? The report assumes that there is no evidence of criminality in the acts also attributed to young detainees. She says the girls don't mention imputable facts against them. His attitude is not belligerent. He says that one of them - of the young - seems to address the agent verbally when he is attacked, when he is beaten by the agent. And it finds the absence of punches or kicks on their part, which did not reach any agents. All of this is reflected in the report of the Committee on Control and Transparency. That is, the police version that those young people were attacking Ertzaintza is simply a lie, Mr Erkoreka, according to this commission. The famous technique of cross-denunciation that the commission dismantles is used. In other words, the Ertzaintza makes a complaint against these young people, because they know they have more reason to denounce the Ertzaintza itself. That is, those who are victims are shown as aggressors and those who are aggressors want to appear as victims. As I have sin in my activity, I will show the sin of the other side against me and see if that sin for sin falls. And this is a practice that is usual and that always also appears in favor of the agent by the presumption of the veracity of the authority that the rest will do in this account. So, according to the committee, what did he miss? Well, a lot of things, and very serious. One: the effective preventive mechanism has been affected. Kid's self-control has gone down and a collective control. That is to say, there are two members of the border, those of the border, those who are totally out of control, such blows, such kicks, which make such hair-pints and deportations. And the other members do not calm them, do not stop them. The board is charged with loyalty, and it must not be consistent with irregular activity. An misunderstood loyalty, Mr. Erkokáke, which becomes complicity and encubration. Bi: Egyptian attestation modua failatu da. The committee says: "Attention is drawn to the lack of reflection in the attestation of the use of force by members of the police unit." I mean, in the attestation, it doesn't know what happened, but what the Ertzaintza was interested in telling about what had happened. Attested source of evidence, but in this case attested fallacious, attested deceptive, attested liar. This seems to describe a pattern, a pattern of conduct aimed at preventing control. This is very serious. A pattern of behavior to make false attestations that tell what the Ertzaintza wants to tell, not what happened. Because this reveals in a certain way that it is a practice of Fuenteovejuna. Closure of ranks between comrades, between comrades around a lie to cover up and avoid responsibilities. Cover up, a word that uses the report itself. Three: The internal investigations of the border have been fatal, and we have discussed so many times. Here today, it is said, it is not the case with sub-iudiice in the impact of inquiry and caudices that the case is compatible in a penal tribunal, with the fact that the case is subject to a penal tribunal. How many times have we discussed it, and how many times have you or your predecessors told me that there would be no internal investigation in one case, that they would not take the same measures because it was sub udice and was subject to a criminal court. This discussion is closed by the committee. Now it confirms the need of internal investigations. No real investigation about what happened or about people who might be involved. This delays determining the direct measurements and... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... No research, no information about people who might be involved. This retards the determining of the direct measure, and renders it difficult, that these measures may be effective. This is devastating, Mr. Erkoreka. What the Commission is saying is not only that these facts can be investigated internally, but that they must be investigated internally. But you don't want to, but you don't want to do these investigations. It happened already in the Cabacas case, it happens in the case of attacks recorded in video to the Getxo police station, to Silvia S. There was never an internal investigation, because the case was subjudice. And when he was gone, at least in the Cabacas case, it was too late. They were all out of service and no internal investigations were carried out, and no administrative or disciplinary responsibilities were cleared. No measure was taken by those who, not criminally, but in the administrative and disciplinary fields, had or had been involved in very serious irregularities and actions contrary to the Rules of Procedure, as it is in this case, too, that they are now analysing this opinion of the Committee on Control and Transparency. They have repeated a thousand times the lie that internal investigations cannot be carried out while this subjudice, while in court, to see if repeating this lie became true. But now all this is being dismantled by the Committee on Control and Transparency. In this four cases, rubber measures have been applied. Two men involved in facts do not patrol the area under investigation, as a rubber measure, and this measure is still in effect at the present day. I don't know if they're keeping them. But this way of proceeding is rare. That is, there is no internal investigation, but they apply in certain precautionary measures that these two agents, at least, will not patrol in that area. Without a prior investigation? Isn't that strange? Something fat has happened, they don't conduct an investigation, but they do apply certain precautionary measures. Something they don't identify, it's not irregular. At least this information does put it in the hands of the Evaluation Commission. There is no crime, but are these two ertzainas still fit to continue to perform the police function? It's over. What will you do to implement the recommendations of this Commission, which point to lack of prevention, lack of investigation, lack of detection, lack of response, lies in attestations and checkpoints that you, Mr Erkoreka, should exercise?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u60	Yeah. Good morning, chief physician. As has been said, the Police Control and Gardens Committee in 2022, we are here to discuss the first file today, the arrest, and the violence that happened in this arrest or the arrest. A detention that takes place in a very specific place in Bilbao, which I will then quote. Two persons detained in a procedure that this Evaluation Commission has completely questioned. The agents themselves, in an area they know well, move those subsequently detained to a place, the only place in that square where images, video surveillance cameras can't film, they can't... You don't see what's going to happen behind that tree where they put these two people. Which doesn't happen to any of the other corners or points in that same square. Any other place, as the report says, would have allowed the cameras to pick up what the defendants are accused of. And as the committee says, what happens behind the tree is not appreciated, except that six agents are on the reported ones. Denunciation of officers against persons who were subsequently arrested. People who were surrounded by six agents, who then incorporated one more. And supposedly, well, a series of attacks are being carried out by these people who will then be arrested, which would justify the proportional use of force. The Commission and the account of the facts and justice have determined that this is not accredited. But after this, what is actually credited by this report is that being subjected to one of the defendants, a people punches him in the face at a short distance. As it was said, a direct in boxing slang. Still being held by his arms, the same agent throws two kicks. The second one seems to reach the torso area, causing it to fall to the ground, receiving another kick as it falls. Finally being handcuffed, they get his face from an agent's boot. In this context it is when one of the agents is crouched on him with three or four punches in the face. None of this has been invented by me, but it is in the report of the Police Evaluation Commission. But where it's not, it's in the attestation. It is difficult, as the Evaluation Commission says, that it has not been assessed by any of the other agents who were at the time in that operation. And of course, as the Commission itself says, such events cannot be included in this general allusion to the proportional use of force. And as the Commission says, proportionality cannot, cannot be understood as an umbrella to force a handcuff to stick his face to the ground, to receive the contact of a sole on his face, kicks and punches. That is what the Commission says about this particular case. But in this Parliament it is not the first case of these characteristics that we are dealing with, but it is the first report of this Commission that we are dealing with. In this House we have heard, in the same area, moreover, numerous complaints from citizens and SOS Racism, for example, about this type of police action. But in addition to social organizations, we have also heard Ararteko in this House. So far, the response of the Basque Government to these types of complaints has been... Anyway, nothing or scarce. It is now a group of experts in justice and human rights who point out in this Commission that there has been disproportionate, improper police action and that the internal investigation has been deficient. In relation to the investigation, the committee makes a proposal which has been dealt with many times in this Parliament in some previous cases... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... in relation to the investigation, the committee makes a proposal which has been dealt with many times in this Parliament in some previous cases, such as the death of Iñigo Cabacas. Article 138.5 of the Basque Police Act states that "checking the ex officio conduct of an internal investigation when there are indications of an action contrary to the Police Code of Ethics is how things have to be done, also giving subsequent transfer to the Judicial Authority". Another thing is that, while, as the law says, the adoption of any decision will be postponed until a final judgment is handed down, if the Justice determines so. Very different things, open, close the investigation, and take action. The commission also gives a touch, a touch to the police authorities, because this investigation was not carried out internally. That is what the committee itself says, and the first news, and that is the first question I ask you, is whether this is going to be so. The first news we have after this report is that internal affairs will not sanction the two ertzainas pointed out in a report for kicking and beating the two detainees. That is what we have gathered, and we want to know how they interpret this news, or what the Government's assessment of this issue is. In addition to all this, the commission conducts a study to examine whether the prevention, detection and response mechanisms of the Ertzaintza Police have worked in this particular case. Regarding prevention, the committee indicates that self-control, the very ones..., and we have heard this once, the very convictions and values of the agents should be the first tool to avoid such situations, but it seems that this in this case has not worked, because not only the aggressor agents, but none of the seven who were in this operation prevented the detainees from being removed from the area or the detainees from being assaulted in this operation. And neither has a mechanism that, well, I know you are, or we know that you are working, such as the use of subjective body cameras, that there is a pilot project. With regard to detection, he said earlier, the police's evidence of a totally disproportionate use of force has clearly failed. And, as I said, it's striking that none of the agents have said anything about what was reflected in that attestation. And the commission says – I'm not saying this, although I share it – it seems to describe a pattern of conduct aimed at preventing objective control over the police action to which we are referring. The committee questions the manner in which the attestation was drafted, who was made a statement, and who or who was not, despite the use of force, given no details either of the nature of the statement. He also said this about the Ertzaintza's response to the signs of possible irregular police action. The commission literally points out that "there was no real investigation into what happened or about the people who might have been involved", as stated in section 138.5 of the Police Act. These are the facts that have occurred, and this is the assessment, most of what I have said, literally quoted from the report of the evaluation committee. And for us the conclusion is clear: "Prevention mechanisms, detection mechanisms and response mechanisms to irregular actions by our Police have failed." It has been set out in the part of the report, as Mr Arzuaga and I have been doing. And the report also makes a number of recommendations to be implemented by the department and Ertzaintza itself, based on the shortcomings that have been identified. So what I am asking you, Mr Councillor, is what the Basque Government is going to do to improve the external or internal control of police proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u61	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, all good days. It's a double interaction that I'm planning today. Two different ones, but about the same subject, and also those who are transmissing at the same time. With regard to the same subject, as − spoken, but each with its own focus: share in one piece, and different in another. I shall then try to give them an answer, but here and there many things which have been said beyond the concrete content of the interrogation, and many things, without paying too much attention to the −ros casos similares, identicos casos cas, denuncias de SOSracism, etc. −. Not from want of mind, not from want of answer, but from want of time. But before I go into the substance of the matter, I would like to make three introductory remarks. In order to avoid dispersal, which I have seen some questioner has wanted to provoke, to narrow down the matter before us and to frame my intervention, defining the framework in which it will develop. First introductory consideration. The two appeals are based on a recent report by the Basque Country Police Control and Transparency Commission, the CTC. On this point, I would like to make three comments. The CTC is a body provided for in the consolidated text of the Police Act of the Basque Country. It was incorporated into the norm through the fifth reform of the police law. A reform that was approved in this House in June 2019, and to which the two parliamentary groups to which the authors of the petitions belong, voted no. Welcome to the legal framework, welcome to discovery, welcome. It is not a bad thing that in such a short time they have passed from believing that the CTC is a useless body, to nothing less than embracing their reports to build their interpellations. The praises they've given you today are... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... to nothing less than hugging your reports to build your interpellations. The praises they have addressed to you today are worthy of consideration. Second. When he took up this legislature and this councillor assumed responsibility for the office the CTC was not yet constituted, it was provided for in the law of one year and three months ago, but it was neither constituted nor appointed its members. This councillor could have been delayed, he could have made the reel and delayed his constitution, but he considered that it was an important body, despite the reluctance of some parliamentary groups, and he was given priority and his constitution was promoted without delay. So by December 22, 2020, the Governing Council already approved the appointment of its members and promoted their immediate establishment. That yes, I did, I say once again, under the scepticism of one of you who from this very rostrum made considerations that I have noted and would be worthy to emphasize, and one day we will. Three. In the case to which the appeals relate, there was no obligation to bring the matter to the attention of the Commission. I want to make it clear, too, that no one has valued it. The Commission may act in two ways: it may act on its own initiative or at the request of a party. It was not a matter for us to intervene ex officio, therefore, the initiative to seek the intervention of the CTC was adopted by this adviser himself without any legal obligation, including by forcing the interpretation of the precept requiring the prior existence of complaints in this regard. Nor is it true that, as one of the interpellers slips into his interpellation, this adviser brought the matter to the attention of the CTC to investigate - between quotes - "the relevance and proportionality of detention". That is what the interpeller says, but it does not appear in the writing I addressed to this (...). That's not true, therefore. Second consideration. This is a matter that is judicially settled. In the interventions of those who preceded me in the use of the floor, it did not seem to be, but yes, it is judicially resolved. It must be said clearly. When the report that gave rise to the two interpellations was issued, it was not. And that is clearly perceptible in the CTC's own report, but it has also been clearly perceptible in the interventions of the interpelants this morning that are anchored in this situation, in that situation, in what the first order of the first investigating judge said, and in what the CTC's own report has said in this regard. But, logically, forgetting - probably in a deliberate way - what the order says that is definitive in this respect and that defines facts that are those that link to the Administration. Well, they've overlooked it, I can't overlook it. And I would also like to say that the criminal procedure has already concluded, and concluded with a resolution of termination. In other words, a judge, investigating judge number 7 of those in Bilbao, considered in January 2022 that the facts could constitute an offence against moral integrity, and thus deduced testimony from private individuals. But eight months later, in September 2022, another judge, number 10, investigating judge number 10 of those in Bilbao, with the same evidentiary material, the same evidentiary material, a video, among other things, that I have not seen and I assume that none in this House has been able to see it, but they have been able to see it. One describes it in another way, and another, the one that is binding on the Administration, describes it in a completely different way, although in the descriptions we have heard this morning they only remember the first. It resolved with the approval of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions – important, not only the judge, and the prosecutor issuing the same report – the provisional dismissal of the proceedings because the perpetration of the offence was not duly justified. It adds something more important for the purposes of the facts, because some facts have been cited here, but with regard to the facts, the resolution makes curious, interesting and likely considerations to be taken into account in this case. He says: "There is a police act motivated by the conduct of the two persons who were arrested, who during the police act were in a state of drunkenness, without knowing that they had suffered even injuries or filed any complaints." We are not, therefore, talking about a crime, even though it did appear in previous interventions, because there was no crime. That's what a judge says in a ruling that's already firm. We are either talking or we can be talking, in any case, about measures to improve the protocols of action to prevent what, according to the judge, has not happened in the future. This is clear, isn't it? Good. (...) prior to the judge's ruling, the CTC itself had narrowed its intervention in very similar terms. I had already said on page five that since the matter was under judice, there seems to be no coincidence in this regard, but the sub judice case was saying to the Commission "it will refrain from examining individual conduct that could lead to criminal or disciplinary responsibilities, since its objective is, moreover, to make proposals for improvement on police practices related to detention". And on page six he added: "The conclusions cannot be generalized from the study of a single case. But it is also true that shortcomings or errors that are detected can serve as a basis for making suggestions or recommendations aimed at increasing the effectiveness of controls over police activity." I think it is important to take this into account because the whole House has been able to appreciate a couple of things here. On the one hand, it tends to generalize the circumstances of a particular case in an attempt to turn it into a sort of witness par excellence of a sort of general case against Ertzaintza, already for the same price against the Basque Government, the Statute of Gernika, the regime of 78, even the capitalist system. On the other hand, it is said - quite lightly - that in the case before us there has been aggression and a crime. Well, there's no such thing. The order strictly states that the perpetration of the offence is not properly justified, and with regard to the facts, those which bind the Administration, the final decision ending the procedure says five things. First, there was a police performance. Two, that such police action was motivated by the conduct of the two persons who were arrested. Three, that during the police performance the detainees were in a state of drunkenness. Four, which is not known to have suffered any injuries. And, five, that because it does not exist, there is no complaint, because none of them filed it. Third preliminary consideration. During the preparation of the report, all the CTC's requirements were met on time by the department. All of them. In order to ensure that he could have all the elements of the trial necessary to rule on the subject with the utmost rigour. The collaboration between the department and the Commission was intense. Its members accessed all the places they requested and consulted all the documents they requested. But beyond the epistolary relationship, this adviser has recently been meeting with the CTC to discuss, among other things, the content of the report to which the inquiries relate and, in particular, the recommendations contained therein. In relation to the latter, with the recommendations,... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... to discuss, inter alia, the content of the report referred to in the inquiries and, in particular, the recommendations contained therein. In relation to the latter, they were told with the recommendations that the department was willing to comply with those recommendations and that the CTC would soon be given a detailed account of the measures taken to implement them, with the aim that they could collect them, if they so considered, in the biennial memory of their activities which under article 20 of the Act are to be forwarded to Parliament next year. I am not going to advance to the House the contents of that action of accounts to which I committed before the CTC. But, given that both of them are interested in them, I do not think I lack the courtesy and respect I owe to that body if I advance here any generic consideration of the intentions of the department in that area. The recommendations of the report will, of course, be met, but I would like once again to recall that the CTC is setting up its report with the aim of making proposals for improvements to police practices related to detention. He expressly states that he is not going to examine individual conduct that could lead to criminal or prison responsibilities. Well, what are your proposals and recommendations? In this section, the report distinguishes three areas: prevention, detection and response. It has already been pointed out by one of the interveners. Prevention, as far as prevention is concerned, the training aspects - recommendation one - will be addressed basically through the academy. The training already provided in all subjects identified by the CST will be strengthened: code of ethics, conflict management, self-control, etc., etc. The revision of the detention protocols - recommendation number two - will also be addressed in the direction outlined in the report. And for its part, the proposal to move towards the widespread use of individual chambers - recommendation number three - meddles with an old acquaintance of this House, because I have already had the opportunity to explain in it the projects that the department is hosting in relation to this matter. The pilot project that I announced has already been carried out and, at the moment, we are in a process of hiring 1,387 individual chambers for distribution by the police stations. We are already starting the process and what gives you the recruitment will probably allow you to start having these cameras by the end of 2023. Detection, the report proposes -recommendation five - to improve protocols for the preparation of certificates in order to detect possible actions or patterns of conduct contrary to the code of ethics. Obviously, this proposal will also be taken up in the terms suggested by the Commission itself. Answer, third level. There is a recommendation - the sixth - that links with a matter that - as has been made clear here today - has its end and is not new in this House either. The matter is as follows: how should we proceed in the disciplinary field when we are faced with facts that are already being investigated in criminal proceedings or when they begin to be investigated? The Police Act is clear - article 138.5 - and, in the same direction, the disciplinary regulations, which are literally identical in this respect in article 26: the initiation of criminal proceedings shall not prevent the investigation for the same facts of the relevant prior information or disciplinary record, with the adoption, where appropriate, of such preventive measures as may be necessary. However, the final determination of such proceedings may take place only when the judgement in the criminal field is final, linking the Administration with the statement of proven facts which it contains. Traditionally, the Head of Internal Affairs of the Ertzaintza - following a criterion that seems reasonable to me, but it was not mine, it was his - has been in favour of not making progress in the processing of disciplinary proceedings when the same facts are being dealt with in criminal proceedings. And that's for two reasons. One, for economic reasons. Because if, as required by law, disciplinary proceedings are in their resolutive phase strictly linked to the facts that the judicial decision deems proven, all the proceedings that may be carried out on a disciplinary basis in order to clarify them are useless. If they agree, because they do not bring anything; and if they disagree, because the law obliges to discard those obtained through discipline, failing all the effort made to obtain them. And also for reasons of effectiveness, because the experience accumulated for years believes that officials who are the subject of a criminal investigation refuse, normally advised by their own lawyers, to testify before the instructor of a disciplinary procedure until that procedure is completed. And this, because by doing so they could end up harming, through their statements, their own interests in criminal proceedings. In the case before us this approach made special sense, because it was precisely a criminal judge who brought the facts to the attention of the Administration. Then, any diligence that could have been exercised for his investigation was, from the beginning, doubling the performance of the criminal judge, with the consequent risk of developing a sterile effort. Good. The CTC now says that, in some cases, where the law says "will not prevent instruction" should be read "will instruct". It is an important leap: "it will not prevent instruction to instruct." In other words, it becomes mandatory something that, according to the law, is optional. Although that is not the case with the speakers who have spoken before me, because they are not interested in it, but because the Commission itself is aware of the difficulties that its proposal in this direction poses in the factual field - I have already referred to some - it immediately states that internal investigation will progress to exhaust all reasonable possibilities of investigation. Good. That's how it's gonna be done. In summary, the CTC was established to help improve the protocols and actions of Ertzaintza within a framework of transparency and control. And in that key he understands this adviser in his last report, whose proposals and recommendations we are working to implement in the most loyal and reasonable way possible. As soon as these measures are defined, they will be communicated to the Commission, which will decide whether or not to incorporate them into the biennial memory to be sent to this House, if I am not mistaken, in the first few months of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u64	Thank you. Mr. Erkora, you accuse me of talking about other cases, I'm talking about dispersion, but the committee talks about the pattern, that some patterns are preserved or some practice systemizing. And I do not speak of a general cause, but they have here derived some general conclusions. And I'm asking you what you're going to do in front of these consequences, porque, I've blamed myself for being skeptical with this committee, but now I want to ask you if you're sceptical. And with this committee, what would I say to Ibarus? You told me that, but you were with Mr. Ibar, and I don't know all those recommendations he does... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... but you were with Mr. Ibar, and I don't know whether you've disturbed all the difficulties you've put here to practice all those recommendations you've made him do. I hope you've told her when she says it's convenient to investigate a case that depends on the penal question. We'll see if you've told her that's potential, porque, por octognos y porphycacia can't be done and we'll never explore that opportunity. I said: The court files the case because there are no lesions and the defendants have not registered a warrant. But even the committee says why the case has been filed: because the door-house was alive, because the door didn't get what it was supposed to receive, and to receive what was interested in the edge. (Moral love? It may not, perhaps, have a temporary file closed, I take it as closed, but I am here discussing the disproportion of the use of force. And of course it is the initiative of the Councillor, and that is why another of the issues, too, that we were dealing with the setting up of this Committee on Control and Transparency, because the Councillor is left with the impetus of the dossier. And that is precisely why, of the seven dossiers which this committee has assessed, it has rejected six for lack of initiative of its own, because you have not moved it. And now it seems that he has transferred this case to the Evaluation Committee, but it seems that he is now sorry because he is disturbed by the recommendations that emerge from this opinion. Because these challenges are immense, and you say you're going to face them, but it's not cosmetic. This is a real change in the police model. These seven recommendations are made by the lamb's mother, Mr Erkoreka. And of course we're going to follow up on what each of them improve on, because they're crucial. And it's not about a specific case. As regards a specific case, they have arisen, they have appeared, they have brought it to us, and now we are going to follow up on, indeed, one by one, how it is carried out. Look at him like that. Article 17 of the Basque Police Act: "The Commission is created in order to strengthen the legitimacy and confidence of citizens in controls over police activity". I had no confidence in the internal controls of police activity. He had no confidence in his executive control over the activities of disproportionate and police abuse. I didn't even have confidence in my own control of this Parliament, because it denies me information, because it doesn't give me the information I ask for or gives me as you are interested in, almost always censored. Today I have gained confidence in a body of control and transparency, this body of control and transparency, but I have lost confidence in police action. Today, with this report in hand, I lose confidence in how Ertzaintza works. I also start from a mistrust of your real will to address these recommendations. And I'll tell you why. Article 88 of the Basque Police Act: it speaks of the public interest in the temporary suspension of the official. Public interest. And I don't know why always, when the public interest is mentioned, you instead of taking sides with the victims are always in favor of the police who are perpetrating abuse of power and disproportionate and disproportionate use of force. The public interest would, in a way, lead them to balance interests and say "why I always have to stand on the side of the police", "why I never stand on the side, in this case, of two young people who have suffered police violence". Urkullu asked for presumption of innocence only for the ertzainas; it was not remembered that the young people were also adorned by it. And here recently there has been a debate of applause for the work of the Ertzaintza, condemning attacks that suffer. And I would like to ask you whether you, too, condemn the facts that this report accuses Ertzaintza. Thank you. The President said thank you, Mr. Arzuga. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u65	Well, counselor, I think the answer -- although it has positive parts that I will then quote, I think -- is insufficient. That is, the report I believe is strong enough for the department to take it with much more force so that it can make profound changes in the body, as noted in this study. And I, we're never going to make a general cause. We're talking about bad police practice. I'm a cop. I'm a cop. I'm a cop. I'm a cop. I'm a cop. And we're controlling the work of the government. We need to detect what works wrong to protect citizens' rights. And to protect, like that law that we do not support for other reasons as well, society as a whole and Ertzaintza as a whole, and as the law and functions of the Commission say, perception and legitimacy, beyond claiming social legitimacy, because actions of this kind break the social legitimacy of a police force here and anywhere in the world. You have to detect what works wrong, because you said, "There hasn't been a complaint." I don't have the Ertzaintza number I'd like to have right now, but in 2020, in the Historical Territory of Gipuzkoa, there were 14 complaints against the National Police for racial profiling. There were 14 contradictions of the National Police against these people: vulnerable persons, persons who do not have nationality, persons who do not have all the rights that the rest of us live in the Basque Country. There are 14 complaints and 14 controversies. That's a pattern. We know what's going on the same way, even if we don't have the data to affirm what the same roundness as these 14, which is going on the same way elsewhere. And then, you were talking about the investigation. But you know the police law, and I'm sure it's so much better than me, and it's very clear. And at no time does he say anything about suspending: he says about suspending disciplinary action, not the investigation. And you did not say anything about that right now. You said to suspend. Because they refuse to testify because criminal proceedings are open. And of course, that leads me to that recommendation of the Evaluation Commission, where it says that the way to take the... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... criminal proceedings are opened. And, of course, that leads me to that recommendation of the Evaluation Commission, where it says that the way to take the certificates, and only by questioning in that certificate to make or make a statement, rather, to take that certificate to an agent, and that the other agents say absolutely nothing about a bad police practice that is contained in this report, I think it is not necessary to repeat again the punches, the kicks, but we can do it again. They're covering for each other, and that's a behavior that's reflecting this report. And, therefore, about the realization of the attestations, and about that tendency to cover up among comrades of the Ertzaintza, you have said nothing. On the rest of the recommendations, there are some that we are going to follow up on, and I have already announced to you that, logically, most of the recommendations, well, all of the recommendations, rather, of the committee, will be part of our motion along with other elements. And neither do I think that..., we would also have to improve, I think I have not heard him, if he has said so, not being able to rectify in public, that would come later, on the mechanisms also of internal complaints, and on the consequences that it can have at the level of, well, coexistence, because it is soft, within the Ertzaintza. Therefore, in the face of a case of ill police practice and (?) a report so (?) What we are asking for is that action be taken, that decisive action be taken. You were talking about training. At some other times we have recorded the subject of training, especially continuing training, and it is quite scarce. There is initial training, but continuing training is not. We note, if I remember correctly, the last legislature also a proposal to increase human rights training. We will go there in those proposals, and I think that is the way, and I think that I see it, moreover, and I repeat it again, it is not a general cause. We are talking about a bad police practice, and I say to you again, even if you don't believe it: the police's best defense is that the police function properly and in compliance with the current legislation, which we too do, although we aspire to transform it, which are very different things, to aspire to transform the legislation and not to comply with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u66	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u67	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Well, I'm not going to repeat statements I've already made in my first intervention. I have seen that in some cases without much success, because they have come up again, I have been asked again in relation to statements that I had made and made with total clarity. I think I have made it clear, of course, when I said that it will comply, that the government, the department will comply with the recommendations made by the committee, even in cases where I personally disagree with the legal interpretation from which it starts, even in such cases. I said in my first speech, "That's how it will be done." This is what the committee says in relation to this matter, where there was a dispute, and that will be done. Well, here they tell me: I don't think you're very willing, and so on and so on. "This is how it will be done" is how it will be done, Mr. Arzuaga. I think it's clear, blunt, egingo horrella da, egingo horrella da. And so I told Mr. Ibarra too. There is no doubt, I told you exactly the same, that this will be done, and I have also made it clear, that I have committed myself to forwarding a reflection specifying, and talking to them, that I have already spoken to them, but forwarding to them an approach in relation to the terms and conditions under which their recommendations will be implemented, and some of this, with a level of concreteness, logically appropriate to the temporal limits of which I had at my disposal, I have done in my first intervention. What I do not know is whether Mr Ibarra agrees with the interpretations that have been made here on the meaning and scope of his report, because to say that from his proposals there is inexorably a radical change in the police model, which is what we wanted to demonstrate, which was lacking to say, which is what we wanted to prove, because it is the obsession that EH Bildu has brought since I do not know when in his permanent speeches. I'm sure Ibarra doesn't share that, I'm sure she doesn't. But, well, your improvements are there. Let me see, and I promoted the body, the constitution of the body, and I took the initiative to put forward the consultation in this case. It wasn't mandatory, I did. Therefore, I believe that all considerations and expressions of mistrust about you are enough, do not believe it, as such. No, I pushed him, I pushed him. Therefore, here I have given good account in my first intervention of the will that exists in the department to give a loyal and reasonable fulfillment to your proposals, and this will be done, but the proposals must be read in full. Then I see something else that does not come up in the debate, because it does not matter. Everyone focuses on the first resolution and the committee's report. But then there was a final decision, the judge, the first provisional era. The first was the result of an assessment by an investigating judge who was analysing another offence, and then, when analysing the evidence, he appreciates that there may be a different offence, deduces testimony from private individuals, and passes the blame to the Administration and to another investigating judge. And it is another investigating judge who sets the facts, and the facts that set this investigating judge, which I have described with clarity before, as they go in another direction. I've described it before. That a police action, that such police action was motivated by the conduct of two persons who were arrested, motivated by the conduct of these two persons, that during the police action the persons arrested were in a state of drunkenness, which does not know that neither of them suffered injuries. Of course, based statements have been made here, because he was interested in the first assessment, but he is missing on the scene, and it is the last one, and it is the one that defines the facts that link to the Administration, and it is also subsequent to the resolution or report of the commission. The committee knows that this order was issued later, and if it had to issue its report now, it would probably modulate it, most likely modulate it, because it knows what the final result of the procedure is. But what binds the Administration, according to the law passed in this House, is the facts set out in the last judicial resolution, not the considerations of the former. These are the facts fixed, this is what I tell you. And when you say to me, "No, you have to investigate internally." Being these the facts fixed, the car (?) which comes to say something like the proven facts are practically that there are no facts, that there are no facts. I do not quite see that a minimally solid disciplinary record can be built against the agents who intervened in the episode. Confabulations, yes, with the factual relationship that appears in the first judge's decision. Yeah, yeah, but the first judge's car isn't the final one. No, no, of course... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... with the relation of facts that appears, at last, in the first judge's order yes, but it is that the first judge's order is not the final one. No, no, of course, it's that the final one and the one that links the administration is not the first. You have to read the law too, not the voluntarist law, not the voluntarist and interested reading that makes me here. No, no, it is clear from the law that when the criminal procedure is terminated and there is a final and final decision - because it is firm, definitive and firm, it has not been appealed in time and form - the facts link to the Administration. But these facts have not been discussed here. I am the only one who brought them in, but in his second speeches both interveners have again forgotten the facts of the second one, which are those who bind the administration and have again rescued those of the first one because they are the ones who serve to substantiate - whether general cause or not general cause, in their case probably not, but in another sure that yes - to substantiate their historical claim that we are in a change of police model, and so on, and we return to the known and such discourse and which, sure that Mr. Ibarra, who signed the document and surely elaborated it, sure that he does not share, right? As you have now invoked your authority and your great ascendant and your respect for your reflections and considerations, now your distrust is, well, with respect to me you have always had it, but it is with respect to virtually everything that does not interest you. We can see that what he is not interested in in the Commission was a source of mistrust. Now, as you are interested in the report you have issued, you now have confidence; but now you have mistrust in everything else. Now he trusts the first judge, but he distrusts the second. The law can already say that the legally binding is the second. No, no, but you distrust him and you operate in the interpretation of the law as an original legal operator. I mean, I interpret the law according to what I'm interested in. So, I have confidence in this, and I therefore interpret it this way. And in this, as I have no confidence, simply because I despise it. Okay. The Commission has issued, again insisting, the Commission was conceived for a certain purpose, for a certain purpose. Here it was welcomed, that Commission was openly disregarded. Even from this rostrum, I insist, statements were made and made (...) clearly disqualifying with respect to the Commission. The Commission is fulfilling its role, it has done so at the request of the Government. Willfully. The Government is not that it has occurred, imposed upon it, whether it is an international body or a consequence of an action by EH Bildu or Podemos. No, it was the Government itself that made use of that legal mechanism and sought the views of the Commission and its considerations. Sharing some and not sharing others, the reading of the law that it does or that it starts, before I have echoed it, because I do not share it personally, but will give satisfaction to the recommendation as it is formulated. With the limitation that is also included, that you have also forgotten about the limitation. No, no, to the limit of reasonableness, the internal investigation will reach the limit of reasonableness and will be carried out. I have said that, and I repeat that, and I will let the Commission know once again when it has the opportunity to be back with its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, the Assuper of Astoria Astorda EH Collectors made to the head of Economics, patience, and environmental department, about the destruction of the first sector." Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia. As you know, at the end of September, the funk gave a new presentation of economic growth. The data which concerns the first sector seems particularly troubling. The raw spring product is scheduled to go down 11,3 according to the given data. These are very serious facts. That's why we'd like to meet your opinion, Mrs. Tapia. What do you think about the disasters of the first sector?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning again. I think it is not my opinion, ma'am, but, as a whole, to examine the first sector, how it seems to me that we are merely considering land, agriculture, and cattle, and the first sector is the sea's. And in this case, we must also consider that fishing also has its difficulty. But the difficulty is, I think the situation here isn't bad and the results are getting right. The difficulties, as we say, are difficult. But if we consider agriculture and cattle in the sector, it's true that this is a serious situation where economic conditions are being exposed. That's where we agree. It's troubling. But I wouldn't say it's catastrophic, because different subsctors are acting different, and some of them are suffering more than others. So there's no doubt about that. But we also have to note that it was an existing situation, with a crisis, which has increased with the Ukraine. And data as well as data has been taken from section. It's not just a matter of opinion, it's a matter of measure. And we've made measures. And first of all, own funds were activated with a total of EUR 1.8 million in support of the meat-producing sector, with the reserve of the CAP crisis. Secondly, and within the European Union's temporary framework on the occasion of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we have called for extraordinary aid to launch different actions on agri-farms in particular difficulty, with EUR 14 million. And, in addition, through other forms of aid, we have launched, with the help of the Basque Institute of Finance, softer financing to help this sector as well. So it's not just a matter of opinion, but we've made arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u73	Thanks again. Thank you for the answer, Mrs. Tapia. You've given some data, and actually they're taking measures, but our team is very worried about the state of agriculture. We believe that pretty habits have been trying to cover up the shameful problems of the sector and the shameful prices it pays for, but as the cost of production has increased, the situation has become intolerable. And the data I gave you isn't a dark future... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but as the expense of production increases, the situation becomes intolerable. And the data I gave you isn't the only ones that represent the dark future. In a report published by the Basque Government of the competition, the low income of our first sector and a crisis marked by the lack of relebos between generations. The sector is projected in damage, powerless to decide, with insufficient income and no financial muscle. The cattle have been reduced to 25% last year. And we're seeing it in the papers every day. 6000 milk to the slaughterhouse last year, due to the high price of pens and other insums. The first profitable productions produce losses at present. And the thing is, in front of that situation is, what public institutions are doing, what fun has organizations that ought to be working in the sector service, and what you've been talking about is helping you out into separate areas. But what kind of results are you getting with those tools? Obviously it's not enough. Instead of being more independent, we are more dependent. And just as we care about the patience of the sector and the increase of the prices of food, we need to ask ourselves more and more questions about that sector that will produce enough for our society to feed. And our land has something to give, and we still have a glimmer of hope in the peasant and cattle. And if there were some guarantees, the new generations would have dared to enter that world. But to do that, you need bold enough to solve the physical problems of the sector, and a real commitment to the sector. And we must take steps to maintain the independence of the first sector, as well as to guarantee the dignity and future of the sector, to step closer to the independence of food and secure the nourishment. We're sure the sector is ready to take that contract. But if you're gonna believe the way you're supposed to do it, you're gonna believe it. The agreements derived from the applications introduced by the EHG are generally admitted by unanimous consent. And we'll continue with that constructive attitude. We've already got some equipment running, and we'll get some more. And well, since the sector has subsidual sizes, we'll still be working in that direction to examine and try to get past them. Because if the war ends or the inflation descends, the first pues sector will continue on its way to destruction. And her... This is... What can I say? We'll witness the disaster and witness it and we won't be able to turn back. And the thing is, he'll be able to respond to the state of distress or continue as he has been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u74	Thank you, Mrs. New House. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. From behind, as so far as we are concerned, helping the sector as we need it now in other sectors. We didn't leave the first sector apart, I'd say it was hard to protect the first sector. And if that protection did not exist, the situation that was today would perhaps be quite different. It's serious and maybe it's gone. I used to mention the money we've put together, and we've made some kind of work for the farmers and cattle that need the corn for food. You know we've brought it in a bar from Canada, and we've been helping it somehow, and we've accepted special helps last week at a reasonable price to guarantee it. For, indeed, it is not only what is the price of the first subject, but whether it be sufficient, and from whence it is to be brought. And I think we should face this moment too. It's true there's a question of structure in that sector. It's small and structured too. And they are indeed? yes (one of them?) ), they admit that there is such a thing. And we're working with them, but we can't... That was long-term, too. We have to face the short term. And I think we're doing that. I think there are other things we should consider. And one must truly accept and protect the law of the food chain, and make it work. And that's not doing right. We've put the observatory in motion. And that's what we're getting for, and you'll see. And even as consumers, we have our responsibility because we've accepted individuality in code, and then we've forgotten it. There's something we can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, made by the legislature of the Leire Pindo Bustamante EH Collector, to the head of the Treasury and Ogas, to penetrate into the distribution of wealth by means of the policy of tax affairs." Your word is Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u77	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Subaz. 15 days later, but we're here to make this interference. Fifteen days ago. I don't think it was asking too much to answer this interference before we went to the Basque Council of Sales. Although we published a number of possibilities for this interference, it was finally retarded. But we're here today to make this interference because it's important for us to know your answer. That's why we've kept this interference, because it's not a small matter to know the view that the chief physician has of the measures of the tax which can be taken from the policy of wealth, that we're in the context we are in. And today it's even more important after what you've heard in your conversation here yesterday. He's been talking a lot about the tax policy and the influence on the distribution of wealth. The tax is one of the principal goals of the system to redistribute wealth with the direct influence which struggles against public welfare and social crack. It's an important tool to guarantee the welfare of the tax policy. And that's how we've been proclaiming the Basque Country ever since Union. The tax policy... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It's an important tool to guarantee the welfare of the tax policy. And that's how we've been proclaiming the Basque Country ever since Union. The tax policy is a primary instrument for dividing the wealth which we produce, and consequently it is essential for all men to maintain the model of well-being. Any government, if it aims at the welfare of society, will have to employ the tax policy in its favor. Mr. Chief physician, it's basic to use all the tools to reduce the social crack that's continually growing for the past few years to strengthen social cohesion. This seems basic and common sense, for many years, unfortunately, has been relegated from the tax policy manuals that have been applying the gurus of neoliberalism, the firm followers of the famous Laffer Curve who continue to predict the mana of tax collection with tax breaks, although the empirical reality has already shown that it is the opposite. Here, unfortunately, we have not been alien to that reality. And with the euphemism of fiscal competitiveness - which was repeated here yesterday by the representatives of the groups supporting the Government - we have undergone fiscal reforms that are focused solely on favouring those who have the most and large companies. Wear it as you wish, but that and not another is the reality we have experienced. Basing the territory's competitiveness on tax cuts to large companies and those with the most is not the same as an advanced country and a cohesive country. This and not another is the recipe of the right ramplona. This only increases social inequality and the concentration of wealth. And that must not be our country's model. Today, as we have already mentioned on other occasions, there are international winds of change. And in the face of the change of era that we are living in, we see how different governments and agencies take and propose measures following the redistribution of wealth, measures really aimed at those who most have making a greater contribution to the public arks for the common good, for the strengthening of the welfare state. They play change drums. The growing social inequality has jumped to the agendas of different international bodies, such as the IMF. And the European authorities, as you well know, are not alien to this reality. Mr. Chief physician, there's changes about the tax policy that knocks at the door. The wave's over there. It's a great challenge, and I said it last night. All the tools of the next decades must be started, and it is one of the most important means of taxing other policies, of getting economic resources, of penetrating into the distribution of wealth, and of fighting against the social crack. But I have to tell you. We're surprised that the groups that support the government yesterday. PSE sees the need to reflect on the policy of the tax, but it is not Urgent. Okay. Then put your deadlines on it. When will this be the right thing to do? When will that reflection be ready? Let's take a step. Let's start the road. While we were listening here to the representative of the PSE saying that it was not urgent, that was not the time, in Madrid the Montero minister had said the day before that this country deserves a deep debate on taxation. Here we are told to wait and not to touch, which is not the right time. Finally, they will have and the ladies and gentlemen of the PSE will have to decide whether or not this is the time. To stop asking can't be an alternative while the environment changes high speed. Yesterday, PNV brought the right speech, Mr. Chief. For the moment he proclaimed the current answers in text: "Es el momento de ver cuales son las medicas que tomar en cada momento para i saliendo..." "I don't know. Paras i selliendo? Really? Is it just time to take cycan proportions? Is that how our society is, Mr. Chief? I really think we're different. We can't afford to be with the short lights, counselor. We owe it to Basque society, we have to lay solid foundations for the future and not take the future with our feet changed, because the challenges of the 21st century are of such magnitude that playing small is not an option. The representative of PNV proposed that we have nothing new, but we have the proposals, and we have explained them over and over. We have recently introduced a treaty of well-being, and we have published several of our proposals concerning the policy of the tax. But this was not our proposal yesterday: the proposal was to discuss it. To open the discussions, open the options, and then let each of us open their suggestions to the desktop, but let's open the discussion. Look, you're in your government program saying, "The conspiracy is taken to continue in the design of this new prosecution, and to reflect deeply on this reform of duties, together with the legislative institutions. This reform must be adapted to the new reality, and must be directed to a greater progress. He's going to have to go to the state of union in Europe." That's what you show up in your government program. path to greater progress. When will this road be done? When will it be time to reach that road? It doesn't seem to be short-term, I'm afraid. Yesterday, again, PNV came out with his usual mantra: the time is not for the reform of taxes. But it is not even time for PNV to open the discussion. No roundness again to open the ordered public debates composed of different agents. Once more, I refuse to open the discussion. That is not the time, we are told, we have been told in this House on different occasions by different spokespersons. That we have to wait for the situation to become normal, it has also been said. And while the lehendakari Urkullu the other day told us that the only certainty is uncertainty. For you will tell me, as the world is, long you are trusting us. If the only certainty is uncertainty and we have to wait for the situation to normalize, when will it arrive? When's that coming? The PNV yesterday made it clear that it does not want to debate, that it does not want to listen to the different proposals on fiscal policy, because we do not even open up the option to talk. It must be a lot easier... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... debate, that does not want to hear the different proposals on fiscal policy, because we do not even open the option to talk. It must be much easier to follow as before: to continue with 20th century recipes and modes. But we are in the 21st century, with new challenges, with a society that has changed, and with needs that are growing, growing and multiplying. The President spoke of certainty, stability, and constancy this week. But how is it possible to be consistent, since there is no opportunity of arranging a debate? What consensus? What if he doesn't talk? Let's open the way, chief physician. There's so much to hear in this town. There's a lot of people in this town who are willing to work on this thing. And that's why we want to know your point of view, we want to know the measures of taxing the projects of government in the distribution of wealth by politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u79	Mrs. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, Mrs. Pindo. Good morning, everyone. (... ) As we said in an interpelation, and as you express in your explanation of the interaction, the state of the world is changing in a very important manner in recent years. We read every day news on the proposal for a Council Directive on the establishment of a global minimum level of taxation for multinational groups in the Union, or on energy taxation on the reduction of net greenhouse gas emissions, or on the proposal for a Council Regulation dealing with high energy prices, which seeks to include a solidarity levy on energy companies to tax on the extraordinary benefits of higher prices. The Basque Government, together with the outside parliaments within the Tax Coordination Body and with the cooperation of the Secretariat for External Action, is following up on all the new initiatives that are being launched, both within the OECD and within the European Union. We remain on alert and continue to follow up on measures that are being worked out, agreeing and adopting at European level. We are also paying attention to monitoring and analysing measures that are being adopted at the state level. Measures that have a significant impact on our tax system, especially in the case of the creation of new tax figures, or substantial changes to existing ones - which may require an adaptation of our tax system -. At this time we are following with particular attention the bill on temporary energy taxes, credit institutions and credit institutions, as well as the new Wealth Tax announced by the State, which we are still only aware of in the press. We are very clear that these tax initiatives cannot be developed from behind the Basque institutions, and as long as they can collide with our ability to regulate and manage taxes in Basque, they must be informed beforehand to the Basque institutions - within the framework of the collaboration and coordination that must be given between the two parties. The State has also devoted an important part of its technical and human resources to tax changes to which it had committed itself within the European Recovery and Resilience Plan, such as, for example, changes in taxation of employment plans, or changes in the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases. However, over the past two years, all the institutions of Europe, the state or the Basques, have devoted most of our resources to taking measures to alleviate the effects of both the pandemic first and inflation afterwards. All this is – and I say just one example – the 5% reduction in VAT on electricity and gas adopted by the State. In this sense, Euskadi has not been an island and we have used all our regulatory capacity in the tax field to take tax measures of an urgent nature, all in the exercise of tax powers under the Economic Concert in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Measures that have been agreed along with the outside parliaments within the Tax Coordination Body, and as Lehendakari said this week, our attitude has been proactive. And I'm going to try to sum up some. As early as March 2020, measures were adopted to relax the deadlines for the delivery of self-liquidation or various tax procedures, as well as extraordinary postponements, which were extended on more than one occasion in view of the widening of the emergency situation. In December 2020 and in order to protect people with lower incomes, the threshold for the obligation to declare from EUR 12,000 to EUR 14,000 was raised. In view of the continuity of the pandemic throughout the year 21 and the effects thereof, this measure was extended, which is likely to be extended again to the year 23 and following. Exempt from the income tax of natural persons were declared virtually all the income corresponding to the subsidies or extraordinary aid granted by the public administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community; measures were taken to compensate for losses resulting from profits obtained in the previous financial year; the exemption from the income tax of natural persons for several quarters was approved, measures have also been taken again in this financial year; extraordinary deductions were approved to support the resumption of economic activities particularly affected by the pandemic, which were to make investments for the control of fires, etc.; the flexibility of requirements for the participation of workers in the enterprise was approved; the deduction increased by job creation was approved; measures were adopted to promote the reduction of rents. An endless number of measures that have sought, as I said at first instance, to stop the pandemic's first blow and, secondly, to encourage economic recovery. And when it seemed that we were leaving the pandemic behind, and that we could therefore, from a situation of economic stability, evaluate and analyse the measures adopted in previous years, and even assess the impact of certain fiscal measures on the various sectoral policies, the escalation of... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...to analyse the measures adopted in previous years, and even to assess the impact of certain fiscal measures on the various sectoral policies, the escalation of fuel prices and the wholesale electricity market, aggravated by the invasion of Ukraine, has caused an unprecedented inflationary spiral. It was all about coping with recovery. However, all the action plans have had to be changed again, and we have had to adopt, once again, urgent measures in the tax field, with the aim of alleviating the lack of liquidity of taxpayers and the negative impact that all these factors are generating on the economy. Exceptional splits of tax debts were again approved without guarantees or interest-bearing delays, extraordinary measures for the calculation of the yield in the direct estimation method, the increase in the expenditure package, for sectors such as the primary sector, particularly affected by the increase in production costs, or the transport of goods or the increase in the percentage of reduction of micro-enterprises in company tax. The exemption to taxpayers from income tax for individuals engaged in economic activities and certain taxpayers from corporation tax, from the split payment for year 22, was approved. For the year 22, the rate applicable to the general liquidated base in the personal income tax had already deflated by 1,5 %. This measure was also applied to the reduction of joint taxation, the reduction of the quota and personal deductions. The underlying annual rate of inflation of 5,5 % to June of 22 and in order to eliminate the effect of inflation on the rates of personal income tax in July, a further deflatation of the rate of 4 % was approved, in addition to adjusting the retention table applicable to personal income from 1 September of the year 22. All this with the aim of transferring the impact of the measure to citizens as soon as possible. Also, for the purposes of the tax period of the year 22, a reduction in the additional fee was approved, according to which a reduction in the fee of EUR 200 for each self-liquidation, whose general tax base does not exceed EUR 30,000, will be applied to the income tax return, which is reduced linearly as the general tax base increases to disappear from EUR 35,000. But it wasn't there. In view of the fact that the inflationary situation is gradually calming down, although not as quickly as would be desired, it has already been agreed between the Basque institutions in the coming weeks that a deflation of 2% applicable to tariffs and deductions for the year 23 and to the extension of the deduction or reduction of the quota of 200 euros for taxable bases below 30,000, and, as I said, with the gradual reduction of the deduction to 35,000. It can be said with calm that our tax system has responded effectively, it has not been inoperative. We have acted, we have taken lots of measures, many of them to reduce inequality, which is what you put forward in the inquiry. It's a dynamic system, it's an adaptable system. In that regard, after the document, I believe that I have a much better understanding of what the Government has been doing in the area of taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Thank you, chief physician, for your answer. But we're back to the same thing. I have no doubt that urgent measures have been taken. Moreover, I would like to call for urgent measures and extraordinary measures. But that's not the problem. The problem is that inequality is structural in this country already, and it has grown in years ago; it has not grown only as a result of the pandemic or only as a result of the crisis after the invasion of Ukraine, it comes from behind. And the measures that you have once again explained to me - which we knew, of course, as you well know - are measures that have responded to a short-term rather than a structural question. And the fiscal system of this country still does not have a structural change that really responds to the needs of this country, not to the needs of tax collection - which we have talked about many times - but to the needs of redistribution of wealth. You tell me about a lot of measures in relation to issues that have been proactive, that payments have been delayed and so on. If I don't doubt it. Moreover, he says to me: "The government is following up on new initiatives in Europe, OECD and so on". Is following up on what others do the only thing we can do, Counselor? I agree, of course, that we must look at what is being said in Europe and what the OECD says - of course, I do not doubt it - but we will have to make progress at some point in this country too. Or are we just gonna wait for others to take action? Because, of course, it says to me: "in the state they walk with new tax figures". Some of them are very distasteful to the Basque Nationalist Party, let alone passing by. And what will we expect uniquely and exclusively for the Government of the State to decide and dispose of? Because that's what you just put me on the table. Look, with deflation we can enter into a speech and a very long debate. You know as well as I do that, historically, deflatations have been applied to fit the IRPF, but we are talking about a deflatation of the 5.5 already applied in a new deflatation of the (2.5?)). A deflation that the comrades, both of the Socialist Party and of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Parliament of Navarre, have said that they do not, for example, want to make that deflation. And other measures are being proposed, based on a deduction, for example, on the growing IRPF. He's going to tell me about the reduction in the 200-euro quota. You know as well as I do that there are a lot of people who won't be able to have that benefit. And that's the people who are really affected by the issue of redistribution of wealth, because they stay out of the game, they stay out of the game, because they don't get to be able to apply that quota reduction. Short-term measures, Mr. Counsellor, I insist. And they come back, and you don't even mention it to me... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... because such a reduction in the quota cannot be applied. Short-term measures, Mr. Counsellor, I insist. And they come back, and you don't even mention it to me. In their Government programme, they said that progress had to be made in the progressive fiscal system in the Basque Republic. That is not done with short-term measures, Counselor. This is done by taking over the tax system and implementing structural measures. Things that go beyond a year or two. Things we leave in the Basque tax system. That's what needs to be done. You are waiting, again, to evaluate those tax measures that you applied at the time. And I insist, it's the ideal, pleasant moment, where we say, "Look, it's okay now. Let's look at our tax system." You know as well as I do that in the world we live in is not going to be like this. It's not going to be like this, because we're in a changing world, in a world that's going at a vertigo rate. In a world where social changes, political and economic changes are constant. The time "d" isn't coming. It's impossible. And what we can't do is wait and only apply short-term measures. What can they answer? Of course, they respond to people's needs; more would be needed. There'd be more to it. But we have to do something structural, because the Basque tax system has to adapt to the 21st century, and there is a lot to do. And we cannot continue with a system that just changed in the year 17, which was not a tax reform - and you know it perfectly well - were two specific changes in very specific matters, at a very specific time and with needs on the part of the Government and on the part of very specific Members. The 17th. From 17 to 22 look at whether the world has changed. See if you have changed the perception of citizenship with respect to taxes. See if you have changed the perception of citizenship with regard to public services and the need for public services. Move on. Society, move on. And, unfortunately, our tax system is still anchored, and they don't want to inflate his tooth.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u83	Mrs Pinedo, of course, we follow what others do, and we act in our competences; logically, right? We're not going to act on yours, but we need to know what others are doing, too. I don't know if you're raising a tax hike right now. I would think that quite well, because a tax increase at this time, where we are in a phase of growth that is slowing down in relation to the growth of this previous year, I think it is a bad measure too. And, on the other hand, I want to say that the tax system gives us sufficient resources to make a budget - which we have brought in this House today - that allows us to implement all policies that are instrumental in reducing the inequality that we are all deeply concerned about in the budget. Mrs Pinedo, only the measures adopted in the past year, which will affect the collection of this and future years, will have a negative impact on the collection of more than EUR 400 million. Impact that, as you know, will have a significant impact on resources. However, we can safely say that thanks to these measures we are helping to mitigate the underlying inflation. Of course, without neglecting the other measures that have been adopted from the perspective of spending, which are helping to sustain vulnerable families. I'll get back the words of the lehendakari this Monday. We have a tax system that has proved to be efficient - I would say very efficient - at times of serious social and economic difficulties resulting from the pandemic of the invasion of Ukraine. It is time for uncertainty, consultation and fiscal consensus. We have a tax system that offers certainty, but at the same time has enough waist to adapt to the unpredictable caliber situations of a pandemic or the inflationary spiral that surrounds our environment. We have a strong tax system that allows us to take emergency measures aimed at people and economic activities. The time will come for fiscal reform, Mrs Pinedo, and, on a previous basis, the analysis and evaluation of those reforms will also come. The time for fiscal reform will come and face serious challenges, because we are not prepared for a "see who else" debate to jeopardize the public policies we are developing. In addition, and I think that must be said, the general boards of each of the historic territories are already in the final phase of the legislature, and, according to the procedures for the drafting of the regulations, there is hardly any time limit for a thorough analysis of any measure that is not affected by the deadline for the dissolution of the general boards, as well as for a debate that is not influenced by an electoral environment in which endless proposals endanger public policies. On repeated occasions, over the past year and the previous year, I have demonstrated my position on changing the tax system at this time, and I have expressed this in both parliamentary and the various media. Today is not the time to change taxes. Now is the time to address the impact of inflation on the economy through measures that are taken from different angles, one – and very important – tax. And all this is compatible with continuing to work on the assessment of the measures adopted to date and to continue to follow up on the measures being worked out at European level, although it will obviously understand that to date much of the resources have been directed towards the implementation of the most urgent measures. And the conclusions of these analyses will lead to the fiscal changes that proceed, at the time, with certainty, with consensus, as I said, with seriousness and from serenity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpology, written by the member of the Ciudadans to the head of the Board of Education to improve the quality of education by the law of education." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselor. Good morning, everyone. You know that since we came to this Parliament we have shown our concern for the improvement of the quality of Basque education, and that it has resulted in different initiatives presented in plenary and in committee, which your ladies and gentlemen know and which is why I am not going to quote. And why...? [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... in various initiatives presented in plenary and in committee, which your ladies and gentlemen know and which I will not quote. And why have we been so concerned about the quality of Basque education from the beginning? What's behind it? What is the cause of our insistence on improving this? Is it perhaps the result of some personal obsession or party strategy? Well, look, no. The reality is that there are several obvious reasons, and I wish there were some less. Firstly, because we believe that education is the most important issue for all who can work in this Parliament. Its impact on the future of Basque society is evident. And in this, at least, we'd like us all to agree. As is already the case, by the way, most of Basque society. Because if we all agreed to consider education the main theme of politics would be much better for us as a society. We should therefore implement a systematic dynamic of evaluation and continuous improvement aimed at improving the various aspects of it. And you don't have to go too far to find ideas about what needs to be improved, because our shortcomings, unfortunately, come to light. It is not, therefore, a partisan strategy, it is due to loyalty to Basque society and responsibility for the fulfilment of our duty. Secondly, because we have a clearly inadequate level of educational quality. And that's not what I'm saying. This has been objectively demonstrated by the Basque Government's own diagnostic reports, which clearly show that there is a huge margin of improvement in Basque education. These reports - which his Government has tried to delay and at some point even disqualify - have shown that the Basque education system has achieved the worst results in its history and deepens a trend maintained over time. They have shown that ESO second-graders have the lowest level of mathematics, science, language, Basque and English in the last ten years. Thirdly, we raise this issue because we note that the Government, and especially the PNV, has been practicing irresponsible negationism on this issue for some time. They find it unbearable that in the nationalist Euskadi there are things that do not work well, and less in education; because that highlights the reality of their management. It has focused its priorities on putting education at the service of its nationalist political project, using education to impose Basque on society as a whole. And when priority is this, it's not quality. But we cannot look elsewhere as some do, and we have the obligation and responsibility to face this issue. The nationalist strategy, the position of the ostrich practiced by the Government, translates into the theme of education by repeating to the full the few indicators that suit it in education. Mainly - and I am afraid that today too - the low drop-out or drop-out rate will repeat it. And they do so with the aim of concealing reality with the mirage of these two indicators. But we want to talk about quality education. It's good that we get the kids not to leave the classrooms. But that does not speak of the quality with which we are teaching them the educational contents, it does not speak of the quality of what is happening within them. We can have them or keep them in the classroom, another thing is that they learn something inside them; they're different things. And we can also lower the academic level and approve them all so that there is no school failure. I'm not saying this happens, but you can do this. But that doesn't mean they're learning correctly, and that's what a teacher says. Moreover, we will be deceiving ourselves and deceiving them, but the academic and labor reality will soon put them and us in their place. When instead of these indirect indicators, I would say tangential, we use, instead of those we use as has the ISEI-IVEI - its agency, not my - direct assessments, reality jumps into sight with unwarranted cruelty. I repeat: it has become clear that the Basque education system has achieved the worst results in its history and deepens the trend maintained in the time that the second-graders of the ESO present the lowest level of the last ten years in mathematics, science, language, Basque and English. Sometimes the counselor, seeking to hold on to a burning nail and trying to distract attention from the main theme, repeats that we should look at other indicators such as the joy, affection and gratitude our students feel. And I agree that you have to pay attention to these emotional indicators, but without trying to get them to cover up the reality that the previous ones cruelly show. It is not going to be, as I told you on one occasion, that in the end our educational system generates a very cheerful zopencos that are then easy to deceive and manipulate because, for example, they are not able to interpret a statistical data even if they are in Basque. And why am I asking you this question today? Why do I come back again today with this theme? For now we are at a crucial moment, at the door of a new law, which should be an opportunity to undertake the necessary reforms to give a good boost to the quality of education. But we have known the preliminary draft law and have met with many measures to force all students to speak Basque, whether they like it or not, even in the courtyard. But none really important aimed at improving the poor quality of education. For this reason and on account of responsibility, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you what your department's aims and intentions are to improve the quality of education through the new education law. Or, if you prefer, what steps the department will take to, beyond the new law, substantially improve the quality of education. Because we have already seen clearly that your department's strategy is to bring here a rather decaffeinated law that responds to that disagreement that you signed to neutralize almost all the groups in this House, and from there, and through dozens of decrees and subsequent rules, make your cape a skirt jumping to the toaster to this Parliament. And the truth is, I don't expect anything from the new law. If you really will respond to the initially signed disagreement that puts white on black the small importance that the low quality of education has for the signatories. But I do care about the quality of education, and what I really want is for it to improve substantially. And I'm aware that this isn't an easy challenge, even if... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... is concerned about the quality of education. And what I really want is for it to improve substantially. And I am aware that this is not an easy challenge, even if it is - from my point of view - the most important of all government action. It is not easy, because I know that there are many schools, many teachers, many subjects and many years doing things wrong. That they are the ones who have produced the results that we have today. But there are also many resources in the department. And if this is a priority issue, we should put them at the service of it. Here's the thing. That we are talking about a priority issue. What do we prioritize? For our part - you already know, because we have told you on several occasions - count on our cooperation for this, for this. For other nationalist political projects, no. For this we extend our hand to you, we will bring you our ideas and help you in what we can. But a change of attitude is previously needed on his part on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u87	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Gil jauna, indeed the preliminary draft of the new education law has been exposed from 15 September to 13 October to the process of public information open to the contributions of citizens and educational agents. In this process - as Lehendakari has commented today - 35 proposals have been received and are now being discussed in the hope that they will contribute to improving the initial text. I would like to convey my thanks to the involvement of all actors in this complex and exciting process. This preliminary draft is the result of the work done to transfer to an articulated text the order received by the plenary of Parliament on 7 April, signed by the vast majority of this House through the agreement of bases for the transformation of Basque education. Mr Gil, you want to talk about the quality of teaching, but it seems to obviate this agreement, which is a consensual and shared starting point. I must remind you that it was only you and Vox who did not join this agreement which aims to transform and improve the quality of Basque education. I must remind you that in my appearance at the Committee on Education on 20 June, I also present the plan of concrete actions that we are putting in place to put into practice the changes that will make it possible to transform and improve Basque education for the next two years. This agreed and shared starting point is structured into four areas. The first concerns the configuration itself and the strategic vision of Basque education as an educational system. The second area relates to equity and social cohesion. The third area focuses on quality, that is, the set of measures we are going to take to bring us to higher levels of education, in line with the challenges of our time. We're talking about educational transformation challenges. And the fourth area focuses on new governance models. A consensual and shared starting point that is legitimized by the vast majority of this House, more than 90%. And it recognizes that - and I open quotes - "our system is characterized by a set of benchmarks in the field of schooling, either in the dropout rate, or in the remarkable or appropriate level of higher education that shows us that we have a good education system" - and I close quotes. In the meantime, you permanently - and as you have said - insist on trying to move an image of our educational system completely away from reality. I suggest a change of attitude. We are facing new learning systems, new demands for training, new challenges of coexistence and values. We must open ourselves up to greater participation of the educational community, greater autonomy in the centres, more collaboration of all institutions with education. I suggest a change of attitude, Mr Gil, because you are missing the opportunity to bring new ideas and encourage new commitments to improve the education of this country precisely. I will not repeat the objective indicators that demonstrate the good level of our system, because I have already made them known in previous appearances. If I want to remind you of our attitude of continuous improvement. We have a good basis and we must and want to continue to make progress since the agreement on the transformation and improvement of Basque education. We must continue to improve and move forward. We share the need to deepen the improvement of the educational model by placing the student at the centre of a system that aims to contribute to her integral development as a person, and to facilitate her contribution to society by promoting her school success. We must continue to improve and move forward. It is necessary to consider an integral approach to the itinerary that this student undertakes in her system from the age of zero to the age of 99. I mean, for the rest of his life. Education is present throughout our lives and we always have the opportunity to learn, to improve through knowledge. Education is part of the vital journey of all people. This is a reality and in turn an aspiration. The Department of Education is prepared, equipped with means and programmes to meet this aspiration. Education as a fundamental right goes beyond the compulsory education stage. We must be able to offer alternatives that allow us to take advantage of each person's maximum potential. In this itinerary through which our students pass we have obtained that after their passage through the compulsory stage they have at their disposal the best options that adapt to their aspirations, either through our university training offer that you know or from Vocational Training. In this area too, we must continue to improve and advance, of course. We are currently working on new vocational training and university plans. Updating and adapting permanently in our offer to the demands of a society in permanent change. We are addressing this task at the hands of universities, vocational training centres and companies... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...society in permanent change. We are addressing this task at the hands of universities, vocational training centres and companies. Only in this context of consensual and shared work is understood the success of our system in relevant indicators such as the low rate of early school leaving, a percentage of young people, who study and work well below the European figures, the high percentage of population between 25 and 34 years of age who have completed tertiary education, or the high rate of employment of new graduates between 20 and 34 years of age, three years after completing their university studies. These indicators demonstrate the high level of quality of the Basque education system. Also, the need to continue improving and advancing. Returning to the point of departure, we must conclude, as more than 90% of this House shares, that we are starting from a good education system. We can also conclude that we must continue to make progress in improving the quality of education, and that we will do so more effectively on a consensual and shared basis. Euscalal education system must go on as a whole to the quality of education. Education and modification through a process, but beyond this legislature, it is the same society which must assume this challenge in response. Education project that is going to develop an education agreement is engaged in making a new map of Eucharistic social cohesion. This map allows you to assign duties and give resources according to the requirements and targets each school has to take upon it in this common purpose. The drafting of a new law is, precisely, allowing us to share a moment of great opportunities in the search for improvement and new pedagogical proposals. A moment of opportunity in improving quality and methodological and pedagogical approaches. With this orientation we are driving the new curriculum that will help us to improve and move forward in the new skills approach that has already been developed in the Basque education system over the past few years. We want to see the centers that gradually implement more interdisciplinary work without losing sight of the importance of the didactics of each discipline, putting that knowledge at the service of learning and the needs of the student. This new vision relates the areas or subjects that are worked on in each course, involves working the subjects in a joint way with a global vision, involves betting on a more practical model, and a formative evaluation that will help the student to self-regulate his/her learning, and the teacher to better identify the challenges faced by each student, each student. With this new curriculum development that gives impetus to skills learning, we will improve and move forward with the objective of ensuring the student's exit profile. To this end, social, personal and academic competences will be combined, because all, Mr Gil, are essential. The exit profile involves knowing how to mobilize the learning acquired by the student in order to respond to all the challenges he will face throughout his life in the personal, family, social, academic and professional fields. As I have indicated to you, the studentship is the key to the Basque educational system. Therefore, their emotional well-being and care, the guarantees of success, inclusiveness, the universality of the curriculum and the exit profile for their preparation to meet the challenges of today's society are fundamental. New approaches, Mr Gil, because the goal is to improve on the basis of the work done so far, and to rely on the faculty of our system. New approaches also to the concept of educational quality, not only linked to results. I suggest a change of attitude. In a calm reading of the preliminary draft law, with a character and a constructive attitude, I am sure that you will clearly identify many aspects whose aim is to improve the quality of our educational system. I am sure we can share much of those goals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u88	Thank you. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, if your answer comes to say that what you are going to do basically to improve the quality of Basque education is the basic agreement, because almost everything is already said. If that is going to be your answer to this problem, it is all said, because the basic agreement does not include anything but beautiful words, and by the way ambiguous. There's nothing but intentions there, there's nothing concrete there. And I'm giving you this approach now, because the law is about to come. I don't know if they're still in time to modify things, but the law hasn't arrived yet. The preliminary draft is very similar, and we need much more concrete things. You say we have a good education system. Look, what we have is an education system that needs major reforms, and what we need is advice that is aware of what needs to be reformed. You talk about new approaches and you talk about competence management. Anyway, I think you're a little younger than me, but I've been hearing about competence management for 30 years. That's all but new approaches. But the first thing I want to make clear to you is that as much as you insist on disqualifying this debate and asking me, or forgiveness, and asking each other for changes of attitude, which is what we have been doing for several months now. No, we will not be able to divert attention from the main reason for this intervention. The low results of Basque education demonstrated by the reports of its own body, ISEI-IVEI, whose data are objective and unquestionable. I repeat, let's see if you're going to repeat them with me to keep them quiet. According to these reports, the Basque education system is now producing the worst results in its history. Then we don't have a good Basque education system. And it deepens on a trend maintained in time, and that the second-graders of the ESO present the lowest level of the last ten years in mathematics, science, language, Basque and English. Then, we do not have a good Basque education system; otherwise, we would not have these catastrophic results. And what I would have liked to hear from you – and I suppose the rest of the citizenry too – is what you ask of me: a change of attitude, take note... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... catastrophic results. And what I would have liked to hear from you - and I suppose the rest of the citizenry too - is what you ask of me: a change of attitude, that you take note of the data provided by your own body, that you are getting to work and that you are going to take advantage of the new law to undertake all the necessary reforms and to reverse the situation. Everything else is negationism, excuses and justifications for mismanagement. Look, counselor, losing the opportunity of a new education law to give Basque education a qualitative leap in quality is a pity, it is a failure, that all Basque society will pay dearly in the next generations. And this is your responsibility, which you will not be able to avoid trying to... try to hide reality from Basque society with smoke curtains that will soon fade away. Put your hands to work. We're late. We've wasted a lot of time, a lot of money and a lot of energy using education for your nationalist political project. The lehendakari said this morning that he is willing to collaborate with all those who want to contribute. We want to contribute. And you want to work with us? The ball is on your roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Stark, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u91	Gil jauna, as I have indicated, are many aspects contained in the preliminary draft law that will lead to an improvement in the quality of education. And I also invite you to read it, unless you read it. Respecting the loyalty to the agreement transferred by this Parliament, the new education law is based on fundamental elements, such as: first, quality education and excellence for the entire student population; second, a digital transformation plan for the entire Basque education system; third, multilingual and intercultural education; fourth, an integral evaluation framework; fifth, initial training and continuing training of teachers. I am sure that we can share many aspects whose aim is to improve the quality of our education system. First, quality education and excellence for the entire student. The new law is based on positive coexistence, equal opportunities and respect for plurality and freedom of belief (...?) of any violence and discrimination. Second, multilingual and intercultural education. The preliminary draft law recognizes that the quality of teaching for the development of communicative and linguistic competence is particularly relevant for its importance in the personal and academic development of students as it is a tool that will help them to understand reality, express thoughts and emotions, transmit knowledge, activate the critical spirit, reason, create, see and understand the world and relate to others. Third, comprehensive evaluation framework. In chapter two, articles 77 et seq., the new law seeks to consolidate and prestige the culture of evaluation for improvement at all levels and in all areas of the education system as a basis for quality and excellence education. Fourthly, the promotion of quality policy in educational establishments and the professionalisation of the management function. Article 99 provides that the autonomy of educational establishments in their various projections and the development of a managerial function under criteria of professionalization in management are the basis on which the quality of educational establishments is based. Article 45 provides for the recognition of the management function. Fifth, initial and continuing teacher training. Chapter 7, Article 92 et seq. identifies training needs to adapt to the methodological and technological challenges and changes that will impact the education system as a result of the future transformation of education and society. These are just some of the aspects that have a direct impact on improving the quality of our system. In view of them, I am convinced that you will share these aspects contained in the preliminary draft law. Can you tell me you don't agree with any of them? With someone? With someone? Education is a country goal and we will continue to make progress since the agreement. We are aware of the magnitude of a challenge that can be summed up in the following axiom: to ensure equity and equal opportunities, to continue to advance in the improvement of quality and excellence. That's our way. We are making progress in responding to this challenge. We are already taking decisions that lead to an improvement in the quality of our education system, to which he has made no mention: stability of the faculty and call for public offers of employment, more than 7,000 places throughout this course; commitment with union agents for the progressive reduction of ratios, English since the three years, improvement of physical education, gratuity in the Haurreskolak Consortium, etc., etc. Education is a priority of society and our Government. And that is reflected in the effort we make in the budgets. We are the most resourced community for each student and the most dedicated to GDP. Education is a profitable and future investment. I suggest a change of attitude. They still have the opportunity to join most of this House and propose improvements to the text of the law. For our part, we will continue to faithfully implement our commitments and hope to be able to hand over to this Parliament the text of the new law at the end of this year for debate and adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzer, a member of the Anitz team, a member of the Board of Education, concerning the irregularity of the finances of the Student bridge." Mrs. González, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u93	Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, chief. This month we learned that the ikastola Zubimusu of Villabona received last year public money for two concerted classes that had empty students. Irregularasun horiek sakonago ezagutu nahian, zera galdetzen dugu: zer the Egyptian balorazio of the Hezkuntza Sailak Zubimusu Ikastola bi ikasgela bidegabeki ituntzearen inguruan? Thank you. [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... what is the rating of the Board of Education about two wrong-proclaimed classrooms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u95	Mrs. Gonzalez, Mrs. Gonzalez. In the Basque Committee of the 11th of October, 2022, as is received at the Voletine, the inspection of the Board of Education had been detected by the irregular license of the Central Bridges of Villabone. These circumstances were communicated to the representatives of the Gipulia Land, in order to enable them to change the mechanism which they receive under the regulations of the education treaty. In particular, about the incidents of 5th. mechanisms received in article 69 on chapter and correction of these rules. Thus it has been followed by the procedure established by the inspection of Education, and by the mechanism of the applications established in the established regulations. I'll explain my rating as you ask me to. The Board of Education has detected an irregularity, a violation has been stated, and the department has taken the measures prescribed. So the procedure has been carried out properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u97	Barkatu. Well, ezeri ekin aurretik beast, koka gaitezen Billabonan. In Villabona there are two centers, one public and one private-concerted, both of one line at the initial levels. As the birth rate declines, the cultural and linguistic diversity of the people is increasing. Thus, there are fewer and fewer boys and girls to enroll, but they are more and more diverse. And yet the families of the natives are obliged to separate these few children into different schools, which are hindered by the conjunction of inclusion, unity, and socialization between their children. There are some village families worrying about. Anyway, we come to the point of this verbal question. You claim, as your department has argued, that it was the inspection service that detected the irregularity. Ikastolen Elkartea, the association of ikastolas, however, argues the opposite: that it was the ikastola itself that informed the inspection of its situation. If the version of Ikastolen Elkartea is true, we wonder what would have happened if the Ikastola had not communicated anything to the Department of Education. Would the inspection service be aware of irregularities and, consequently, of undue funding? Well, we don't know. As a result of all this trouble in Villabona, we now know that the Department of Education has been in contact with Ikastola Zubimusu, who have constituted a conciliation commission. Well, by the way, we do not know why you have resorted to a decree of 87 to create this commission and impose the sanction when the order of 21 June this year, signed by yourself, already contemplated the possibility of imposing the sanction, although neither the latter nor the decree of 91 mentioned in it are pronounced on the conciliation commission. But, in any case, you've created a suitable opportunity for communication between the two sides, and we hope that the representatives of the Board of Education have asked the authorities if they're collecting their fees or if they can hire other financial funds. And now that we mention other illegal financings that may be receiving concerted centres, I would like to mention the two applications that have been registered in the municipal governments of Villabona and Zizurkil, with the aim of knowing whether the ikastola has not used the inflated data of that registration to obtain illicit financing from the City Hall. We will see what the outcome of that report is. Well, and when I mention this municipal finance, I can't leave any of the cases of Ordizia and Andoing. Zalantza asko, bathed were a gutxi. We ask ourselves: Has Ikastola Zubimusu discharged any teachers for these two classes? Will Ikastola have used the unjustly obtained money already? What happened to those missing boys and girls all of a sudden? Won't egon say matrikulatuta? Eta garrantzitsuena, zer egin du Hezkuntza Sailak Zubimusuko bezalako kasurik ez dagoela ziurtazzeko? And when will we have a procedure to automatically prevent such situations? I think a long question et cetera. We are clear that there is a need to strengthen the department's inspection service, which has recently been severely depleted. We also have point 11 of the agreement to comply. These are mechanisms that should be used by the department to, among other things, prevent, once and for all, undue funding and the collection of illegal quotas by the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u99	Mrs. González, the regular visit of December 2021, and the three-year-old children of Child Education, had noticed various differences between the number of registered students and the list of students of those steps. In order to clear this difference, the theatre asked the school for the instruction of the students and the documentation on the procedure of license plate. After the first analysis, after further information, the inspection of education concluded that there were evidences of irregularity during the course of 2021-22 study in a number of Child Education students. Thus, as the general inspection was determined by the report on February 14th, 2022, by September of the decree which accepts the regulation of the education treaty... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... As the report given on February 14 was determined, that the decree which accepts the regulation of the education treaty agrees with that of September 293/87 Decree on article 67. It was requested that the Board of Councell should examine the information given by this committee, and follow the regulation, that they should make the decisions proper. It must be explained that this Committee of CPhilliation is the instrument of the regulations of the Education treaty. according to the article, to take proper measures to correct the violation of the rule made. After reviewing the plates and appropriating the Ksumeration Board, it was decided to return the wrong numbers of paid bills on the 23rd of May 2022, yes, and to change the contracted units. Education Administration has operated upon the office when irregularity has identified and heard of them. By the service of Education, the Board of Education will continue to observe and control the schools that affect the Education System, and the laws, regulations, and other regulations that are established. With that, the Board of Education will continue to propose the corresponding correction measures when the wrongs are identified. We'll keep doing the procedure properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, given by Erasitz de Egililaz, the parliamentary lawmen of the Ramos EH Union, made to the planetal Plant, Housing, and Commander of the Transportal Department, about 800 euros being a bargain." Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u101	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, Chief Arriola. We didn't make anything up, just now you said yourself: "sé que es difícil, pero si se busca bien, se encuentran alquileres de 800 euros en las capitales vascas." Is that why you threw the chief physician of the Arriolas, with conviction and perfect composure to the point of this remark, a bargain that you think 800 euros are?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Saez de Egilaz, in fact, in the past topaketa I answered a question about the Gaztelagun programme which ensured that it was impossible to find rents in capitals below EUR 800. And I said, as you have said, that, although sometimes it is difficult, if you look, sometimes you can find it, as the actual data from the Gaztelagun program show. Because of the 5,000 young people who have received assistance from the Gaztelagun programme since its launch, half of these grants correspond precisely to rents in Bilbao, Vitoria and Donostia-San Sebastián. And in the same sense, of the current 3,000 aid, almost 50% are also in the capitals. At no point did I say, not even insinuate, that a rent of 800 euros a month seemed like a bargain to me or a colloquium.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u105	Thank you, Chief. Hundreds of young people have expressed that your words are wrong. The young council said a lot of young unions also complained about it. Are you going to tell these too that they're exaggerating and that your words are out of context? And yes, Chief Arriola, most of Castile's helpers are in the capitals, but this has a clear reason. Most of the offer of the local rent market is in the capitals. Dot. this argument serves us no longer. But what we're discussing here today and what we're criticizing is what you said. In fact, your remark makes it clear that this government thinks 800 dollars' rents are found and you're lesing those prices. And reasons are clear. The problem that exists in the private rent market is extremely fat, the excess is already too much. Even if the housing is a fundamental right, it's become a business. And that's what brought the rent prices down. Desphase, decontrol, big problem. And besides, though we live this matter in an individual way, it is not particular; it affects the whole world not to find rent prices just in the right way. And I've done my homework, as you said, and I've been looking for it well. And I started the search in my city, I started Donostian. And what is found in it is not normal, Chief Arriola. In the first cheapest neighborhoods, −Loola, Inchaurdo, Alza−, what we find in it is not normal. Are there 800 Euro rents? Yeah, some of them are. But how? How many quartos? Do you think it's fair to pay 800 euros for a studio? And somebody would say, jesus, girl, you went to Donostia. Klaro, Donostia has become a luxury city these days. But this is not about the capitals. Gejon has also started subsidizing the town so that the kids should be on their way. So we want to live in our cities, cities, cities, and villages, and we want to live in worthy means of rent. But the dissociation of this government to reality is far beyond it, and the things they say are generally thought. And you said today on the radio that we took your words out of the context. But you said that if you wanted it right, you could find 800 euro rents. And you can't find them. Casi mision is impossible. And he who has hitherto been chief of Castile once said that with 600 euros a worthy life can be maintained. I live with 600 euros, paid 800 euros a rent, and I don't get it either, or any young man or myself. So, instead of focusing on the people, if we could see that this isn't a particular matter, and that it's not a fault that they pay too high a price for those who don't find a rent, or for the quatre, dirty, and old houses... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... whether they pay too high prices, or persons who pay a great deal of money for their private affairs, or for their houses, dirty, and old. If you saw him instead of doing the exercises of a cheap cocktail, instead of telling him that we're going to find him instead of telling him we're going to find him, General Arriola, it's all your responsibility because we can't find worthy housing here in private rent. And perhaps I'll have to write you on a date to see you every day and know what a good advice is: do not leave what you can do to-morrow, Chief Arriola. It might be a great day for once to limit rent prices.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u106	Thank you, Mrs Egilaz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u107	Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, GazteLagun is a live program, which we periodically review to reach the greatest number of young people. This same year, as you know, we have improved their conditions, expanding revenues, suppressing temporality, increasing the eligible income in the three capitals by 800 euros. I understand that this maximum income can be adjusted in certain areas with very high rental prices, for example Donostia-San Sebastián. And let us not rule out the possibility that in the future the development of Gaztelagun can lead us to introduce specific and exceptional measures. But you will not deny me that this is a delicate issue. Imagine for a moment (...) the eligible income, we place it in 1,000 or 1,200 euros. Would we not be contributing from the Administration to fuel the shortage of rental housing in Euskadi in tense areas? Mrs Saez de Egilaz, do not despise a programme which is bringing stability to thousands of young people, and which is growing permanently, permanently. To understand its scope, one practical example is enough. If a young person who has just reached the age of 24 starts receiving help today and keeps it until he reaches the age of 36, he would receive a total of €40,000 from the Government. And that counting that the amount of the grant was 275 euros, something that, as you know, is going to change soon. Because in January, with the approval of the budgets, the subsidy will increase to EUR 300. And it is true that Gaztelagun is not the definitive solution to housing problems. Nor does he intend to, because no measure is taken on its own. It is a good aid that must be combined with other actions aimed at combating the great problem of housing in Euskadi: the lack of supply. And a greater offer is achieved by increasing the public housing park through the construction and capture of empty housing. And the City Councils are in this sense a fundamental piece, since they have the soil we need to make the social housing policy effective. By the way, a city like Donostia, where there is a real need, our department has proposed measures of scope, such as allocating all the soil that is freed with the underground railway in Amara to sheltered housing. In addition, we have an agreement with the City Council to raise 300 accommodation facilities, plus another 100 direct promotion in Martutene. These projects include 90 housing units in Riberas de Loiola, to which, by the way, the Bildu municipal group has turned its back. And of course, if it were for you there wouldn't be new social housing in Amara either. Mrs Saez de Egilaz, I do not think there is a government with a more serious approach than this to improve the conditions for access to housing for young people. We have a long way to go, but also a long way to go, because today almost 9,000 young people receive an economic benefit for the payment of their rental housing through Gaztelagun, and the supplementary economic housing benefit, and another 2,700 live in a public rental housing of the Government, (...). And a piece of advice. Don't talk so much in the first person of the plural. The situation of young people is diverse, and there are people who would not be able to access the Gaztelagun program because they far exceed their income.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interrament, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, with regard to the reduction of the long list of waitings which are being inflicted on the members of the Osata. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u109	Thank you, good morning, everyone. Mrs. apple. Look, yesterday, Mrs. Chief, there was a professional health that came up to me. I don't know if you and all of us get close to each other, and he added something to me. He said he had doubts about us being as bad as we are at the time of the Pannonians. Bear has been wrong. Maybe she said, maybe now we're worse than we were in the pandema. The workers are sick, and they see no light on the other side of the tunnel. And it's true that the workers are sick, so it's not good news. Also, if we are contradicting something, it is that the people have a greater share than ever; it is harder and harder to reach Osar. And it's getting harder and harder, because we don't know whether it's been a deliberate goal or if it's been a social effect from the New Year's politics. But the consequence is that the individual health and collective health of the people are in danger, and that it has right consequences. That it has right effects as well as society in mortality, in the growth of pathological animals, and in the impact of the health system. For, to look after the access, the diagnosis increases the complexity of treatment in so many situations; and all this presupposes a more weight to the system. On the one hand, there's no way to perform health support with the population. Now, first mindfulness is chained to the mad wheel of a war activity. And on the other hand, the delay of diagnostics and treatment is a direct result. And it's happening in focus. It's getting more and more difficult with the doctor, to get a consultation in the home of health in the village. It's almost impossible to get a time and time consultation. And when they do, the consultation is what they have to do in ten minutes: doctors... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... and to be consulted in time is no longer possible. And when they do, the consultation is what they have to do in ten minutes: the doctors must diagnose whether you have a cold, whether you have cancer, depression or what you have. And he's becoming quite familiar when you come in and say: "Well, I've only got ten minutes, and I'll only be ten minutes with you." And so, in this situation, the rest of the chronics are what I'll say to you: science is becoming fiction. But if once you've got a consultation, if the doctor family sends you to a specialist, there's still more waiting for the people. And, ma'am, in your reply to us, we've been able to countersign the regulation to which, in response to kurgical procedures and not irrigations, we've had a chance to make sure that you've got the maximum of the topea he's supported by, you're breaking a decree. And that's serious. It's very serious. We've seen that 23.831 population are waiting for an interaction, that there are 7,414 populations during the last 30 days, and that there are 16417, and in the last thirty-day there are 1.074 people. It's easy to say to wait, okay? And regardless of how to calculate the list of waits and how to pull them out of the waitlists. And this is not normal. This is serious. It's a serious matter that you don't follow the rule that's agreed with you. We're familiar with cases that wait for a specialist before an intervention, and it's so hard to reach a specialist that doctors are beginning to say: "I'm sorry, but your specialist doesn't want to see you." Telita. In Ophtalmology, Traumatology, we have extreme waits. Even the state in Otorrino is no better. General surgery, what can I tell you? I don't know if any speciality is all right, maybe (I don't know if there's a speciality? The specialty of the apparatus. The dramatic state of cancer is this: We have 623 people on the wait list. In the heart surgery, we have 110 people, and now we're going to have only one site in public health system. But what about the situation? Keep doing the same thing. And that's how we're supposed to do it? Keep doing the same thing? What we need is short-term correction measures and solutions. What we need is the citizens when they need it. And the system has to be able to detect what's serious, what's not serious, what can wait and what can't wait. And we see that in this state the private people are led to hire private citizens, who, as far as they can, hire a private person, who have a savings, or have an economical capacity. The rest, waiting lists. And if it's all right, their lives will be in danger, but if it's serious, their lives will be in danger, so the politics of the lottery will put them in the bond of fun. The equity which the public health system ought to obtain has therefore been shaken. Now, all experts in the tramitation of the law of public health have referred to the importance of the reduction of social differences from the health system. Well, we're just doing the opposite: We're making more and more cracks. This week, we've seen it through media, for example, as in the Gipuz, private insurance has increased at 9:5%, 2019 to 2021. Right, we can see that in areas where there are great deficiencies in Hosa, private insurance is going up, case in Traumatology. Or it's become a habit to go in private to the guaecologist. We can also see how far private insurance is running: Twenty-five and 64 years old. And we see what's happening in the most vulnerable collective and in the ages. It would also be studied how many professionals are employed in private and public health, which cannot be attended to in public health, but treat them in private health. And there, too, the Medical Department has something to think about and do. So, seeing all this, we don't know what to think. Are we supposed to think that the private health system is getting stronger? Or should we suppose that the beauty of the years, owing to lack of planning, for want of bad organization, is the result of the want of capacity in order to fit new times in the role of Osa? But in the end it's the most important thing, Mrs. What the health department will do to put an end to this wretched situation, to turn it around. What he'll do to cut down lists to expect from villages. What will become of the people to make their entrance to Osar? What the wait will do to reduce. What he will do for a short period of time to put correct measures, and to keep the health of the people private and collectively watched by the medium and length of time. Or do you want to make a model here in the United States? This, I ask, is the most important thing you've ever seen in Bisca, and in years you've strengthened IMQ in Biscaia, because perhaps there's a strategy in the back, in the other countries to strengthen that pattern. But you'll tell us what your purpose is, what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u111	Mr. President of the Parliament, thank you. Mrs. Ubera... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u112	Mr. President of the Parliament, thank you. Mrs. Ubera, it's amazing, but it's not that you sometimes have pandemy to tell me how new things are, and then to forget your analysis. But I won't do that and I'll remember. You forgot pandemy in your analysis, use it, but then forget it. Always turning to your interests. Pandemia's not over. That's first. It's not over. And some of the consequences of his health are permanent. And you know you have to put that into analysis when you see the situation. And in that way, it belongs to a social service of the duration that we are giving, and our professionals are professionals, they don't play lottery (... ) they have their action as well as their own. I don't play for Christmas myself, and with my own money and my own luck. Let's be serious, please. We've always said, and they've confirmed that the outside evaluation on the management of the pandemary has been able to respond to the pandemia. And he was able to maintain an irresistible activity in the first degree of attention, as well as in the Diagnostic evidence, specialized attention, and surgical attention. Because at this time, several people are infected by covida. And it's true that this isn't so much burden at this moment on first class attention or hospital attention, but on the planet of the Osata or the health transport. I suppose that's what you were talking about last night. In regard to the peculiar characteristics of the working health work, it must be carefully observed in the eyes of a covid infection. That's a lot of work baubles compared to other work departments. Right this week, the number of people who've been involved in the Osage has been over 4,000, almost half of what? It's caused by the Covida. Pandemia isn't over, Mrs. Ubera. These two realities cannot be forgotten where we come from, where we are and where we are going at the ball. It's been a few months since the beginning of the year, very difficult, so many kiriphanos had to be closed. The specialized workmen of the Kirophanos were obliged to introduce several persons into the units of intellectual care. Urgential and urgent operations were preserved, irresistible, especially from ecology and Cardiology. The operations that could be postponed at that time were slowed down, waiting on the lists, and it could not be otherwise. Where are we now? Since the chance to resume activity, not normally, as I have said, that we have not yet reached normal, but that the lists have been reduced. I mean, if we haven't reached normal, we're even able to improve the results. As you might expect, when vacation days arrive, you saw that − in the data you've been using, we need to give the workers a rest, which affects their waiting lists this year and always, and you've seen him for years before. We haven't reached a full normal situation until the last waves of... after the last waves of the pandemic. As I said before, the pandemic has not ended, and the pressure, although much less, remains on our services, and above all on the health personnel who must maintain the quarantines planned in case of covid infection, about 2,000 people in the last week. In assessing the status of waiting lists, account must be taken of medium-term trends and the factors that influence them. The first, as I said, is the staff arrangement, which is not 100% because of the covid, and also the impossibility of replacing in certain specialties because of the lack of professionals; the second, the necessary rest periods of staff, and the third, the organizational aspects in the effective and efficient management of resources. The data, including those that we transferred to Parliament in a reply on waiting lists, show that after the waves of greatest incidence, when the assistance capacity is recovered, even if not fully, the situation is reversed, and waiting lists and delays in attention are being reduced. For example, in primary care and after the necessary adjustments each summer due to the decrease in demand and holiday rest, we can say that accessibility, the ability to respond to a call to the service for the performance of any procedure or to request an appointment, is at 82%, even better than before the pandemic. The management and telematic administrative resources we have to deal with the pandemic have continuity, and have added value to our daily management. And the average delay for face care is on average below two days, on average, because not all organizations are equal in size or have the same ease of filling vacancies. They do not all have the same population, the same type of population. I would also like to address the issue of screening. That although it is a preventive activity, and there were moments when they were completely suspended, have returned or are very close to recovering the pre-pandemic pace. The early detection program of breast cancer in general terms has been recovering its activity since 2021 to reach normal prepandemic activity most of the units. The recovery of activity after the waves of pandemic, combined with measures of population transfers, reinforcement shifts in some units, and changes in the citation system, have favored the reduction of accumulated delays in most units. That we moved women from Durangaldea to Gernika to advance their tests was not exempt from answering also in this House, and yet the goal would be the same as we are trying today, that of prioritizing the test, not those eventual discomforts of a very timely transfer, prioritizing health, advancing the tests. With regard to the colorectal cancer screening programme, a population of approximately 275,000 people is invited each year. The invitation is every two years. It remains to be invited to 24% of the population that should have been invited in 2021, and the population corresponding to the... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...two years. It remains to be invited to 24% of the population that should have been invited by 2021, and the population for 2022 is already being invited. Which means you're close to recovering the set schedule. With regard to surgical waiting lists. In those months after the last wave of January and until July we were able to lower the average of surgical waiting days in nine days. Far from the planned data and also the pre-pandemic data, yes, but proving that nothing that normalizes the situation improves the lists. The summer, I have said and I tell you again although you know him well, always distorts this data by the rest of the professionals. So we expect the year-end data, once the activity is resumed, to have data that can be comparable and reflect the real situation well. But we also have to say that this improvement has not been so evident in the external consultations and in the complementary tests, whose demand has increased after the last waves of the pandemic have passed. Beyond the situation imposed by the pandemic, and it is clear that without its effects we are able to respond to the demand of citizens and reduce waiting times, we have prepared the first document of an aid optimization plan aimed at reducing waiting times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u114	Madame apple, the data is there, it's yours. It doesn't have to be distorted. We don't make anything up here. And I'm sorry, and I'm sorry to say this, but it's a quality service to have lists that we're waiting for? Unfortunately, no. And is it a quality service that the people who are in it should wait to be overcome? Unfortunately, no. And here the key is to improve the results, to improve the service, when each citizen needs it in time and time, so what do you do for service and query? What day you're going to have to put aside the joker of the pandemie, aren't you? For everything here, unfortunately, does not come from the pandemia, but has left before the pandemia the spontaneous deficiencies we have often uncovered in this house. And now it's another one of those jokers who're short of professionals. I'm sorry, but if there's a lack of professional health in years, it's the most beautiful thing this government has ever had. So, just give up the excuses a little bit, just a little bit of self-critic, and take care of yourself, so you can put the measures back to this situation. And I'm sorry, but medicine isn't useful. In health, people have a right. And I don't want your object to guarantee the health rights of the people, to prefer them. But I doubt what happens when I see it, because, unfortunately, with the persistence of this right, I'm not sure that I'm with the te cuentto−. We all know what's going on with Osar and... We all have... We're all team users, what's going on? That's why medicine's no use here. And here the key is what you're going to do to reduce these waitings, and to enable each citizen to maintain the existence of all those who are to receive them, and to guarantee the entrance to Osar. For without seeing people it is very difficult to know if it is urgent, not urgent, or not serious. Therefore, we need to update, we need to update, how citizens access the system, we need to define and design how people can contact the system when they are in a hurry, when they are in need. Because people don't go out of their way to Osakidetza. It's not a whim. And we have to be resolute. How do we respond resolutely? So people won't be afraid. "Jo, am I going or am I not going to the ER?" Or "If I go to emergency, it's too much. But if I go to the CAP, I, like, don't take care of me well." And, of course, the CAPs are as they are, uh, Mrs. Sagardui. That is why we need to redesign that access to give people a quick and effective response. And once and for all primary care can fulfill its function, because now it cannot do so. And then you have to take a look at how you get to primary care. It is about getting much less activity to primary care and more worked, so that primary care can carry out the promotion to health, can follow the acute process, to chronic care. Because what is happening to the most vulnerable groups?, what attention are we giving to the chronicles?, what attention? The CAP should be strengthened and given more resources. And most importantly, they're open 24 hours a day. Because how do we have the points of continued attention? Home care will have to be dignified. It will be necessary to consider what measures we implement so that those who attend to the private sector can attend to the public. The recruitment policy will have to be changed. Start planning. Form more personal, etc. And we will have to expand our structural staff. Create more codes. And above all, Mrs. Appledui, you have to react. Let them be defensive, react and work together. We negotiate with unions because you know the situation. Other dynamics of work in the legislature start; for if we continue to do the same, it is very difficult to change the result. And maybe we're lawyers. And maybe what you're looking for is going on like this to strengthen private health system. That might be another strategy. But you'll have to figure it out. And in conclusion, I repeat, it's enough, just to use pandemy as a excuse. That's enough. You know it's already coming. If not, there's 2016, 2018 mutations and first attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u115	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u116	Some discussions you've had in this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours. [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u118	It's terrible to hear. The pandemia is now a joker without any influence at all. We're in Pandema, Mrs. Ubera, I'm telling you again. And who else suffers? Health services. And who guarantees attention to those people? Health services. And the case of distress has always confirmed them. Do not be afraid of this, for it seems to be your history to spread fear among the inhabitants. Please, we're serious. First lottery, now the joker. No, please don't, please. You're talking about health, public health service. I heard you, didn't I? Let those who work in private make it easy for us to work in public? Is that what you said? Maybe I misunderstood, but that's what I heard. You forget also to mention the last part of the article you mentioned: why they are of the same age, and what kind of private insurance is the most advanced in the gym. Look, this is where you see it and there are some private activity activities. Please look at me. I'll come back to the subject today. Plans to optimize persistence, first of all, what we're doing, what we're gonna do. And we have planned a review. And that's what we're doing. Wait for the list bags to be special and hospitalal, specificly adjusted and determined. An offer of surgery to rooms, human resources, and surgical resources for each hospital and speciality. Foreign consulships on the ambulance hospitals according to the sanitary institution of Sanitarianism. The general offer of the first consuls at TIS was reviewed, in all the organisations and consulships in the hospital. Compliative revision of the reasons for evading different details. A new wallet of primary attention and health processing tests. After all, these are the targets of optimism; To guarantee equity by knowing the true belly of the service of each organization, and thus to adjust the changes proper to it, to the outside consuls and extra solutions for surgery, to homogeneize homogeneize in all the organizations of the Osae. These are concrete actions of the assistance optimization plan, such as the control of the prospective delay from the Health Care Department. Since it is necessary to affect the excess of patients on the waiting list who have been accumulating since the pandemic began, focusing attention above all on those who have more than 180 days, 90 for cardiac surgery and 30 for cancer surgery. Monthly assessment and prioritization individualized, individualized, I repeat, of the people on the surgical waiting list by the organizations. Review the criteria for entry into the waiting list, adequacy of the indication and departure from the list. To this end, it is necessary to analyse the reasons for referral to external consultations, the adequacy of the request for follow-up tests and the revision of the programming of the surgical activity. The Osakidetza Commission for the Improvement of the Suitability of Care and Clinical Practice is developing a priority decalogue with indications of approach to larger patient bags and specialties in referral to external consultations, request for testing and surgical programming. Collecting these actions, it is proposed to evaluate new standards, such as the analysis and evaluation of the rate of referral between specialties, non-presental interconsultations between professionals, among professionals, and their ability to resolve, among others. Another of the areas of progress is the development of high-resolution consultations, for which characteristics are proposed such as being oriented to potentially serious health problems, having the feasible approach at the level of care of less complexity, having a safe protocol and with adequate traceability, being contrasted between the different agents that intervene and having the participation of the patient in its design and evaluation. In any case, I will be happy to receive any proposal, actual proposal, concrete proposal, and how to carry it out on your part. Because yes, Mrs Ubera, I remind you that since January I have been waiting for your proposals to be shared with me on improving primary care. Let me know how that "find you more where you know there isn't" thing takes place. But, well, I will continue to wait and always with the willingness to improve the public health system, Osakidetza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interlation, the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörkurs, a member of the Ciudadans to the chief physician of the Medical Department, the security and information protocols about re-testing the newly-born children in the Basque Hospitals." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of health, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Last week, counselor, there was a kidnapping of a newborn baby at Basurto Hospital. They are facts, I think, that we all know and that we also follow very directly. And I know that obviously the Basque Government, you in person, in addition, we had the opportunity to talk about this event. I also know that all the efforts of the Basque Government, with the lehendakari at the head, the Security Adviser too. In the end, this event had a happy ending, but it is true that the facts are there. And that a woman, posing as a nurse with the excuse to test a newborn baby, took him out of the room. And from the information we have known, it was not the only attempt he made, but he also tried on two previous occasions - or whatever, but on some occasion - also to enter some other room. Fortunately, the incident had a happy ending with the finding of the creature and the arrest of the kidnapper. And I also want to send from this rostrum a message, as it could not be otherwise, of support for the family, our solidarity. And, above all, also congratulate the Ertzaintza, the Municipal Police of Bilbao for their extraordinary work, their speed in their performance that ultimately culminated in the success of the operation. But, nevertheless, I think... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... in his performance that ultimately culminated in the success of the operation. However, I believe that, once that day has passed, and also the successive days, questions have arisen which we thought would be useful if they could also be answered in Parliament. We, at the time and I also say this here today, do not consider it appropriate to ask for the appearance. In addition, I have had the opportunity to speak with you, but then, also, how have the events and questions that have arisen and have been put on the table by the citizens, we have thought it appropriate to formulate this inquiry, in an absolutely constructive spirit and also for the purpose of that group which I represent also to be able to help establish among all - even if the Basque Government has the responsibility - the necessary measures to ensure that these situations and this particular situation do not recur. I know that the Osakidetza Patient Security Corporate Team met with those responsible for the management of the Basurto Hospital, as you yourself pointed out in a question you answered this morning, that we all know the patient security strategy we have; a strategy that is not static, but rather a strategy that we all understand needs to be adapted to the circumstances and changes and, above all, to incidents that can occur and require a solution. We know that, as you yourself have said, we are awaiting final conclusions and we too will wait for those conclusions, as it could not otherwise be. But, to the extent possible, the object of this inquiry is that we can - with caution, caution and respect, I say to you, this investigation and this analysis that has been opened - answer some questions already in parliamentary office, because many questions have arisen, as I said, the very entrance to the hospital of the kidnapper woman, the controls that may be in hospitals - because this woman did not just sneak into the hospital, but accessed the maternity plant and several rooms - what she has been able to fail and, above all, how she has been able to fail the safety and security protocol in this particular case. On the other hand, it is an issue that also did not arise at first. And we, therefore, in the end, also value performing this inquiry and presenting the protocol of information that is provided to the parents themselves. The protocol we all know that ten years ago, if I remember correctly, it changed, following another event also in the Hospital of Donosti, where it is clearly established that no test can be carried out without the presence of the parents and that, to the extent possible, all tests to newborn babies will be carried out on foot. In this regard, we would like to know what information the parents of the abducted baby had, how that information was provided to them - as set out in the protocol, we understand that all parents are provided with that information - and by what means, and how it is verified exactly that this information has been received in a reliable manner and that there is no doubt about it. That is why we asked him whether he was the object of the Basque Government to carry out a thorough analysis of what had happened. Obviously, when we asked the question, we already knew it was going to tell us yes. We can't understand it any other way. But the second part that we put to you in the question was that we understand that a comprehensive review of the protocols, both security and informational, must be carried out in the hospitals on the conduct of tests for newborns. Obviously, I also say to you that, with all caution, we will also await the conclusions of the investigation, of the analyses being carried out by the Basque Government department, of the various departments involved. But I say to you that we believe it is appropriate that, as the events were unfolding, you, in some way, with some speed and having the opportunity to have full control this Friday, could respond to some of these questions which I believe are of interest not only to the People's-Citizens group, but to the citizens as a whole. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u121	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u122	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mrs Garrido, I appreciate your understanding of the need to contextualize the information that can be provided with an ongoing investigation, both on our part and with the part that falls within the remit of the Department of Safety and Security. And that's where I'm gonna strap myself. In addition, you have deduced well, not only because you have expected it, but also because you have heard me answer the question put by the representative of Vox that yes, indeed, we are going to proceed to a comprehensive review of all the protocols. In fact, the same day... And you also know that, because I had the opportunity to discuss it personally with you. And, in addition, the assessment he made at the time was a different one from the one at the moment, in raising this question that has surprised me in that sense - I have to tell you - because we had commented on it. As I say, it is that the same day the baby appeared already communicated in a way (...) to you, but also in a public way that that same afternoon... And I say this textually: "This very afternoon the first meeting of the Osakidetza Patient Security Corporate Team took place. The seven people who are part of this team have participated, and they have had the collaboration of the medical director, director of nursing and the reference in patient safety of the OSI Bilbao-Basurto. At the meeting a preliminary analysis of the incident last night in the area of Motherhood of the University Hospital of Basurto was carried out... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... a preliminary analysis of the incident of last night in the area of Motherhood of the University Hospital of Basurto was carried out at the meeting. The analysis that will follow your usual course should serve as learning to reduce the likelihood that these facts may happen again. In this sense, in order to share first hand what happened, learn and see what can be improved, the multidisciplinary group of safety references of the care process, gestation, childbirth and postpartum, created in 2014, has been convened for tomorrow. It is attended by professionals from all Osakidetza Maternal Child Care organizations, and it is the group that developed the clinical safety protocol in the care of the newborn with the aim of not separating the baby from its parents. The answer is yes, and in the terms in which you ask the question, that's it. With these tools that are already provided by Osakidetza, in the case of situations in which an unwanted action occurs or there may be a safety failure. Carry out a thorough analysis of what has happened and then carry out a comprehensive review of the safety protocols, as well as the information protocols. Extensive analysis and comprehensive review takes time. As I said in the previous reply, the first responsibility must be placed on the person (...), and it is not for me to assess the circumstances that led him to rob the newborn. Within the hospital - which as you well know is a health facility, as thousands of people do every day - the identity of a hospital medical worker was characterized or supplanted, and she got the mother to leave her child for a test. There's been a protocol for years, "Don't leave me alone," not to separate the baby from his parents or family. (...) badges, identifiers for different professionals, and there is a regime of access to hospitals. Despite all this, this woman managed to take that baby. The revision of the protocols - of some of them - and the search for solutions is not such a simple task, especially in relation to access to hospitals, especially in Basurto because of the urban characteristics of the hospital, which also influence it. From the perspective of security in access to hospital facilities, the solution seems obvious, even easy. We applied it during the harsh months of the pandemic. It was applied in hospitals and health centres, where many vulnerable people live: it was to prohibit or restrict the entry of visitors. You know how we live it, with enormous grief and suffering on the part of families, patients, residents, professionals. Because the well-being of the people who have been admitted, their good care, needs the visit of their caregivers, their families, their relatives, the warmth and closeness of human beings. Patient safety is not a mere access control, it has to do with many factors. You have to think about the most appropriate treatments, and how to administer them. What is the quality of that care. How human treatment is, and to what extent it influences the evolution of our patients. I've said it before, I repeat. I believe that the closure to call and chant of hospitals is not the solution, and it goes against those principles that govern our health care in close proximity and centered on the person. Osakidetza has a patient safety strategy. Indeed, as you mentioned, we continue to renew it, because it is in continuous review - we are now thinking about the 2030 horizon -. And in these strategies it is pointed out that thousands of people are paid attention daily satisfactorily, because we are faced with an exceptional circumstance - I think that must also be said -. That unfortunately has happened, that is not dear, but exceptional. You know that zero risk doesn't exist. And patient safety pursues on the basis of learning and evolving knowledge, introducing all possible measures to minimize the likelihood of occurrence of any safety incident. But fundamentally from the perspective of health protocols, which have the ultimate goal of well-being, but above all it is to care for the health of people. The priority lines of this strategy are: the management of safety incidents; care for second and third victims; the unequivocal identification of patients; the involvement of patients in their safety; the reconciliation of medication; the optimisation of the prescription of diagnostic tests using ionizing radiation; transfusion safety; prevention and control of infections related to health care; safe surgery; safety in the care process of pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum; patient safety and emergency services; patient safety linked to care; good practices associated with the use of medication; good practices in hospitalised patients at risk of malnutrition; good practices for the prevention of induced ordinary incontinence. As you can see, multiple factors that undoubtedly reverse the evolution of treatment and the care of our patients. It is from this strategy as a whole that the delivery and the subsequent length of stay in the hospital have a special section, from which the circumstances that have led to the theft of the newborn are being analyzed. And from where will be the alternatives that they consider most appropriate in this process that is still open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I, Madam Counselor, thank you for all the explanations. And I also thank you, as I did at the time, for the explanations you also gave me at the beginning. But I told him, me if we had wanted to ask for explanations in the first place in an imminent way, since we would have asked for attendance as another group also represented in this House - which did so on the same day -. Obviously we didn't want to act from the precipitation and with the hot events. But it is true that the days passed and with some information already on the table, and above all... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... with the hot events. But it is true that after the days and with certain information on the table, and above all not only what has to do strictly with the safety protocol, the hospitals also seemed relevant to us to have information on the protocol concerning all the information that can be given to the parents and, ultimately, what might have failed also - if anything - in this particular area. I do agree with you that, obviously, when we talk about patient safety, and with the current strategy, we talk about a complex issue in which - as you yourself have said - many factors are involved. Let us hope, of course, that we are faced with an isolated and timely event, as you have also said. We are also aware of what Basurto Hospital is like, but we also understand that citizens must be sent a message at all times that they are safe in a hospital. And, of course, you too will understand that in relation to the specific scope of maternity and maternity service, for this event will also raise a concern on the part of the parents themselves who were already in hospital or those who will also have to come because they may have a child in the near future. Undoubtedly, everything concerning the action of the kidnapper falls within the criminal sphere, we are facing a criminal offence, and it will fall within the judicial sphere to clarify the corresponding responsibilities. But we do believe that obviously with what has happened we must make that analysis that you point out, we will wait for the conclusions, and also for the establishment of those corrective measures that will lead to the recurrence of such a fact and that the people entering a hospital can be absolutely calm and secure that, moreover, I believe that it is - as it could not otherwise be - an end that is absolutely shared by this government and by yourself, that is responsible for the Department of Health. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u125	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u126	Yeah. Since that shared purpose, which is what we all want is that our sanitary spaces, but our territory in general, be as safe as possible. What I am going to do in this second part of the speech is to make the areas of study a little more specific. Among the three areas of analysis, I will start by complying with the protocol "Don't leave me alone". We find, on the one hand, the team of professionals who indicate that they have registered the communication of the content to the women who are going to give birth or who have given birth and their companions, and, on the other hand, that of the family who says they have not received the information, but I would not say that this is the debate. I believe that the objective is to have the guarantee that the delivery of information and documentation on safety protocols in the stay in the Maternal-Infantile Area reaches the recipients. And it is also understood and implemented. It's been in place for many years, but still, we're also reviewing it. The second area of analysis is the identification of persons working in the hospital environment whose supplantation or characterization occurred in the theft of the baby. At the Hospital de Basurto, more than 4,000 people work in different uniforms, with identifications by work areas. New staff are added every day. Many of the work areas are shared with companions and visitors. It is impossible to shield all work areas with doors and security locks. On clothing, it's very easy to wear a gown like or like Osakidetza's staff, because there are thousands and thousands that are collected every day, washed, delivered, removed, replaced throughout the system, or can even be acquired similar or serigraphed easily. And finally, it's in accessibility to hospitals. Hospitals are health centres, they're not safety facilities; I think that's something we all share. If I told you, and it is not to be focused especially on Basurto, this fact has occurred in Basurto, it is true that the architectural characteristics of Basurto are different, and you know them, because it has an external perimeter integrated within the urban plot, adjacent to sidewalks, streets and roads that make it more open. There are 17 pavilions, many of them interconnected by basements, with at least three access doors each, as well as windows and outdoor terraces next to the waiting rooms. There are 4,000 people working in various shifts, care for patients in external consultations, caregivers and visitors for more than 600 beds. Thousands of people every day. In this scenario, the establishment of greater restrictions on access can be complex. During the initial episodes of the pandemic, the application of the restrictions adopted to avoid contagion in the hospital environment proved to be a great difficulty, but I am again focusing on the issue, and you see that I have tried to make a point, right? Yeah, we're reviewing the protocols. Yes, we are reviewing all the circumstances, but the answers are not immediate and are not easy to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question of Carmulo Barro Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the several sects of equality, justice, and Polylice Society, upon the attack and election of the Monuments of the Portal Darteen in March. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u128	All right, thank you very much. Good morning again, Madam President, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, last March 22nd the cross located in the dock of Portu, of the municipality of Barakaldo was attacked, was overthrown by an abertzale group, Ernai, according to his own information and the information we have through the media also... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... shot down by an abertzale group, Ernai, according to his own information and the information we have through the media as well. The Portu Darsena Cross was placed in memory of the 96 Basques and not Basques vilely killed in the Cape Carlats prison ship by criminal elements of the Republican militias who committed this massacre. Crime that was also committed on another prison ship, the Altuna Mendi, docked in Erandio. The Aspe Cross was also attacked at the time. All of them innocent victims of the Civil War, innocent victims of war crimes, which was what those extrajudicial executions were, those murders. Well, the memory policies of the Basque Government reside in Mrs. Artolazabal's department. And that's why we asked you this question. I too, as you well know, asked for a reflection on the Board of Directors of the Institute of Memory and Gogora Co-existence. Now I'm asking you. Institute of Memory and Co-existence. This involves an attack on memory and coexistence. And that's why we want to know what your department's position is in relation to the restoration, rehabilitation, relocation of the cross. It's urgent to do something. If nothing is done, the aggressor intolerance of the causes of the destruction of this cross will be justified. You'll tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Lady Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u130	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good noontides. Mr. Barrio, I'm going to tell you directly and without a rodeo: this government is like you. And we also denounce, like you, without palliatives, the overthrow of the Barakaldo Cross and other similar actions carried out by Ernai with night and lightness. The Basque municipalities, in collaboration with Gogora, are removing all Francoist symbols, using historical and democratic criteria. Sometimes, using similar criteria, the best option is the resignification of these symbols or memory places. And this option is especially reasonable in certain cases. Resignation from democratic criteria and democratic methods. In this panorama Ernai breaks in, the youth organization of the left abertzale making its particular contribution. Ernai has again used the methods they themselves claim to have banished. It betrays any kind of sabotage. We accuse him of any action which is not performed by Democrats and municipal agreements. We condemn these acts of policy and violence. We report any kind of sabotage. We denounce any action that is not done in a democratic way with light and stenographers and on the basis of municipal agreements. And we denounce these actions carried out through imposition and violence. Having said that, I would like to stress that the policy of this government in relation to the victims produced in the Civil War has always been of respect and memory. The Gogora database of people killed because of the war incorporates in its different sections all those who lost their lives in the contest, were on the Francoist side, raised, or on the side of republican democratic legality. And it has already been denounced by the Lehendakari Agirre, the first to report it, and in recent years the Lehendakari Urkullu: the deaths produced in those prisons were unjust murders. And today I reiterate that I am responsible for the memory policies of the Basque Government. We condemn those murders. Democracy is and must be able to recognize all victims of extrajudicial executions and anti-democratic actions, including those produced in the republican rear during the Civil War.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u132	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. See, that's why the cross would have to be replaced. It wasn't a Franco symbol, it was a religious symbol. Sometimes, Madam Counsellor, from the Basque Government they act on these issues as with fear, with the handbrake cast off. And we're talking innocent victims, victims of war crimes in the Civil War. I mean, and I say again, last March, through that act of kale borroka, it went down. But to the downfall that was the outrage to the religious symbol of a monument to memory, to a cross. That is what has been done. It was beyond a downfall, it was an outrage to a symbol that we share many in this country, many hundreds of thousands. The destruction of the Cape Carats Cross is an affront to the citizens, to democratic coexistence, for several issues. It is a contempt for historical memory, because the victims of the murders of Corporal Quilates and Altuna Mendi have the right to be remembered. Nations have to assume their history with their glories and failures, and that was a clamorous failure. What happened there was a failure, it was a crime, and the innocent must be remembered. The destruction of the Cross implies an incalculable aggression against the deepest feelings of hundreds of thousands of Basques and an attack, moreover, which you are also responsible for, religious freedom and its management. I know, we know many people who have gone to that cross remembering their father, grandfather or brother. And they shot her down. It also means that destruction, a contempt for the cultural artistic heritage. It's not the yoke and arrows, it's a cross. And we, Mrs. Artolazabal, have a cross in our ikurriña. Well, no, two. That is, it is a symbol for all who, of course, must be restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u134	Allow me, Mr. Barrio, to bring in two articles from the bill... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u135	Allow me, Mr Barrio, to bring to the table two articles of the draft law on historical and democratic memory in Euskadi, which is currently being negotiated in this Parliament. Article 1 states: "The object of this law is the regulation of public policies for the historical and democratic memory of Euskadi in order to promote moral reparation and the recovery of the personal and family, social or collective memory of those who suffered persecution or violence for political, trade union, ideological or religious reasons during the Civil War and the dictatorship". Of all people, Mr. Barrio. We don't make any difference between the victims. We've never done it and we're not going to do it. Don't have the slightest doubt. Article 25.3 states that "The local administrations of Euskadi, in the exercise of their powers, and in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, shall take the necessary measures to proceed with the removal of all elements contrary to the historical memory of their locality". In this case, the competition is municipal. And I reiterate my position and that of the Basque Government: it condemns without palliatives all sabotages and acts of violence, historical and democratic criteria and methods in the withdrawal or resignification according to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twentieth point in the theme list: "The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together Podemos, the parliamentary members of the Anic team, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, concerning the state of Eucharistic Homeland." Mrs. González from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u137	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, chief of the Artola generouss. We bring here today a recurring theme for my group, because we are concerned, not only about ourselves, but about society as a whole. We have been attending all this week and the week before a flood of news that puts a very serious situation on the table: that is the right to the home. Ten days ago, Eurostat revealed that in the Basque Country, the homeless population is estimated to be around 4,456 people, an increase of 113% over 2012. With particular concern for the situation in Gipuzkoa, where the number of homeless people cared for has grown by 180% and a majority profile of young people and destitute families. We ask: What is your department doing to fight against sinogarism in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u139	Thank you again, ma'am. We too are concerned, Mrs González, about the situation of people living on the streets in Euskadi. That is why we have already been working and putting in place different programmes to try to alleviate this situation. And the data from the Eustat are not good. The data from the Eustat show the figure of 4,456 people who, in the course of the field work, were in accommodation services and social eateries. But that doesn't mean they were on the street. Eighty per cent of these people were cared for in social resources. And, therefore, they were cared for, they were not living on the street. Some of them are, but not all of them. We are concerned about these data. And, as I suppose you will know, yesterday from the department was held..., the day before yesterday, better said, was held the biennial count of people on the street in Euskadi. We have always made it clear that in order to be right in the most effective policies, we must have as much information as possible. And the results of this biennial count have not been good. But they do place the problem of people on the street on their fair terms. There are no more than 4,000 people on the street, as the Eustat data say, but there are 661 people who currently live on the street in the last count that was made last Wednesday. It's too many, no doubt. The Lehen Urratsa programs, (Irauli?) or Trapezistak have taken many people off the street. And that's what we've been doing throughout this legislature. Mostly young. But the number of people on the street, however, has not been reduced. The count of the day before yesterday, as I told you, rises to 661 people. And most of these are in the three Basque capitals. In this last count we have tried to reach more places, even those less accessible and sometimes insecure to which we have so far arrived and which volunteerism has had to enter. Donostia, Bilbao and Gasteiz have more people on the street than in 2018, when the last count was made before the pandemic and confinement. And I am being very transparent and very sincere, Mrs González. I have no pain in recognizing that at this time we have a more complicated situation than in 2018. We have already completed the evaluation of the Homelessness Strategy and by the end of this year we will present the new one, which must be the tool to help alleviate this situation. What I can tell you is that Basque institutions have made a great effort to provide themselves with social resources to meet residential exclusion. And I am also clear that we have more resources at our disposal in Euskadi than in the State and in most European countries. But these policies need to be strengthened. The increase in our capitals is nothing different than what happens in all the major European cities - and an example can be Barcelona. The consequences of the covid and the war in Ukraine have increased the number of people on the street in all the major European capitals, which become centres of attraction for people in a situation of residential exclusion, especially in our case young people and foreigners. To this end, we have set up a Trapezistak programme, which has brought 233 young people out of the street. Our efforts will focus on being able to give a socio-educational project to these boys and girls who want to build a future in Euskadi. And we need to continue working so that these people, the most vulnerable, can remain in our society, but under decent conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u141	Thank you, Chief Artola generous host for the facts he's given us. We were already told that we are concerned, my group is concerned, but I believe that the whole of society is also concerned about the sometimes political inaction in this sense or about the reality that affects a lot of people, and that it is also the most vulnerable people. This week, in addition, we saw two... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... this sense, or about the reality that embraces a lot of people, and that, moreover, is the most vulnerable people. This week, in addition, we saw two news in the press, one of the young people in Donosti who had the worst access to aid for emancipation from high rents. The limits of Gaztelagun's aid often conflict with the reality of the real estate market, or also with the fact that 8,000 mortgages in Euskadi are at risk of default, and in Euskadi there would be some 7,963 mortgages on which there is a risk of default. These are families upon which this scourge of sinogarism also weighs. As I said, third-sector organizations have been going through the streets of Euskadi before last night, drawing up the census of homeless people. A count that has been made since 2010 by volunteers who, altruistically, take charge of the management of this non-existent public policy. And I believe that here too we must recognize all of them for their work. The last count had been in 2018, and we had to wait almost two years to know the result. I thank you, the truth, for bringing here today the count data of the other day. In addition, in 2018 the Basque Strategy for the Homeless was approved, which you also mentioned, which ended last year, and which we were just waiting for its evaluation, and I am grateful that it has progressed, that the evaluation will reach this Parliament before Christmas, I think you said, right? All right. We want to know what the reaction is, what the government is going to be reacting to the social drama that this is all about, and everything that comes. We know the Trapezistak program, which you yourself introduced, of which users recently said: "They still flip the trapeze, but they will soon make the final jump to touch the ground. The rest of us will be here to applaud and continue to support them. And to us, the truth is, it doesn't seem like a circus reality to us." And we do not feel that we should also be faced with a problem that affects so many people, with a pilot project that they have said is like a hundred and peak young people in a situation of sinogarism. And, above all, also making third-sector entities responsible for implementing public policies that are not leading a department. And while homework is not done, there are people waiting on the street, living on the street homeless, without the possibility, besides, of having it, and its reality because it can't wait much longer, so give them an answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u143	Political inaction, Mrs Gonzalez, I do not believe that we have activated EUR 58 million to alleviate this situation, and that the Trapezistak programme will make an investment of EUR 4 million for the year 2023. Different programmes have been put in place, different funds to help all people in a vulnerable situation, and we will continue to support together with the third sector and all those who want to be at our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, the member of the Cultura and the chief of the political department of Language, concerning the inheritance of the barracks of Donostian Loyola." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u145	Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as was stated in the justification of this question regarding the property protection of the Loiola-San Sebastián barracks, we said that the Government has included the Loiola barracks in the provisional inventory of architectural historical heritage. These buildings, according to the terminology adopted in Law 6/2019 of 9 May of the Basque Cultural Heritage, were proposed to be declared as a cultural property of special protection. Also the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, in the report called technical document and analysis of the Special Plan for the Protection of Urban Heritage built in San Sebastián-Donostia, contains a detailed description of the elements to be protected from the said Loiola barracks. That is there, and in addition a judgment, No. 383/2022, which falls within the administrative litigation brought before the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country 480/2021, which declares the inclusion of the Loiola barracks in the (?) of Donostia-San Sebastián in the manner in which the judgment is determined. And it is very clear, because the judgment is based on important aspects, that Loiola's barracks constitute a built urban heritage and form a monumental whole, above its buildings and individually analyzed elements. They are a unique example of Alfonsina military architecture, the most complex and best designed of all that were built at that time, to be a testimony of a crucial moment both for the city of San Sebastián and for the cohesion and modernization of our country, that is, a series of issues that make it conserve. Taking into account, moreover, the competences of his department, he has competence in the field of cultural heritage according to the law, and among other things, very clearly that comes in the law, that of coordinating the actions of the Basque public administrations, I ask the advisor answer to the question of what is the purpose of the Basque Government in relation to the property protection of the barracks of Loiola de Donostia-San Sebastián after the reticences of the City of San Sebastián. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u146	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u147	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Barrio. "Mercy has three main goals about what you're talking about: it is the first step of every institution to acknowledge its functions and its faculties, and to respect them. It is not yet finished in order to make justice its way, and in buildings which are its properties, and also in the town of Donostia. Above all, we have two main goals: the first to protect our cultural domain, and the second to have the protection and support of it, in case... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... First, to protect our cultural patrimony. And the second, that this protection should be living and helpful, in this case, in the development of a city like Donostia, by its education and building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u148	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u149	Thank you. Counselor. I guess you'll have a little more time to keep expanding the information, because I think you have things to do. The Basque Cultural Heritage Act says that in matters such as this the Basque Government has to coordinate the actions of public administrations in the field of Basque Cultural Heritage. And here's a good thing to protect, that is... and you have to coordinate with the parliament, with the city council that protection. I also want to tell you that it's not because it is. We are going to have a debate, there is an initiative on the table, in this Parliament there is a non-legislative proposal. That is to say, the debate will soon be held in this Parliament. There is a GNP, we will have to amend or assume and we will have to give you a legal position or opinion regarding the property situation of the Loiola barracks, San Sebastián. And it must be done rigorously. That is why I ask you that this information, that is, what you will do effectively for that property protection that you have declared in accordance with Law 6/2019. And that's what we're interested in. It's important. It has historical value, it has artistic value, it has architectural value. It is based on your protection in reports - in the Basque Government, in the case of the Diputación Foral, the expert report of the sentence, the reports and the positions you will know of the Patrimonial Association of San Sebastián, Ancora. That is, there is a Basque law to comply with, and Law 6/2019 must be enforced. So in that sense you have the question on the table. Indeed, there is an appeal of the City of San Sebastian to the Supreme Court after the contunence and after the clarity of the appeal. I think he's got... is a flight forward that resource, because in the end objectivity is that one must preserve something that is declared a monument.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u150	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u151	Chief of Parliament. Yellow neighborhood. Two precisions. The first nuance: the protection of property owned by the State is the responsibility of the State. And second: the inclusion of Loiola's barracks in the provisional inventory of historical heritage, is a... the inclusion of that property is not an obligation for its protection, and does not automatically require that they be declared as cultural heritage. The Cultural Heritage Center in the report sent to the City of Donostia in April 2020, cites among others, the Loiola Quarters in a list of real estate that may be classified as cultural heritage. And it recalls the criteria for intervention in each degree of protection. It does not go into specifying or further detailing the type of degree of protection, because it understands that this is not a task for the Basque Government. Therefore, I will not go beyond what has been the Cultural Heritage Center of our Department. In that connection, I would like to stress that we do not find it fortunate that a court ruling imposes what elements should be protected or set their level of protection. I believe that judicial decisions are not the best way to protect our heritage, nor to move towards a viable model of conservation and enhancement of it. Loiola's barracks and Donostia's Special Urban Heritage Plan are a clear example of the challenge of making our heritage compatible and viable with the urban development of our cities. And the Loiola Plan has broad political, institutional and social support. And it also demands the agreement to transfer land between the City Council and the Ministry of Defence of the Government of Spain - agreement that according to the Mayor of Donostia can be very close -. I am convinced that this same spirit of dialogue and agreement between institutions will now also judge and guide the future process of urban transformation of Loiola, so that the cultural co-protection and the necessary development of the city are compatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-28.u152	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two-thirty in the afternoon.
