ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. First point in theme list: "Provide the bill of law made by the parliamentary group, in order to avoid spinning doors, concerning the change of the Code of the Public Offices, and of the 1/2014 law of June 26, which regulates their interests. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. Does anyone else want to be involved in EH collect and together with Podemos? So, Mr. Estarrona, it's your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. Today, we have brought the law of recognizing and regulating cases of interest to the spinning doors. 28 articles make up the law, and makes changes to the law 1/2014, which regulates the code of public offices and the code of interests. And consequently, whether the ethics and the code of conduct, or the ethical committee, which are received in this law, and which is regulated by 67/2016 Obligation, the ethical committee, would have some remarkable changes. The object of this law is to prevent the practice known as spinning doors, as much as possible. And that's what we're going to vote today: one step forward to end with the spinning doors, either in the affirmative or in the negative, and close the road. The objective of the law that we bring here today under way, and which we present in November, is to hinder, to the maximum extent, the practice known as rotating doors. And for that, what we are going to vote for today; and we can vote yes to take a step in that direction to hinder and hinder the revolving doors, or vote no and close the way. The phenomenon known as a spinning door is an inadequate practice in the Spanish State. We have many examples, and the Basque Autonomy is not an exception. We would say that it is contrary, a clear example is always, or more accurately, amongst some politicians who have the same political colour. And it is essential, we think, that this practice should be limited. And this is not my opinion or the United States of Euskal, that's how the reports of the Greek Council of Europe have been received since many years. In September, 2021, he places duties in the accounts of the Greco for the prevention of corruption to the Spanish state and its institutions; such as the definition and regulating of groups of interests, to determine the duties of the members of the community of interests, and to determine boundaries between the round doors of the higher officers and public workmen, and to define groups of interests on the other hand. The Esquimic Autonomy, therefore, is not exempt from these obligations. The spinning doors are very installed in this part of our country, they are multidirectional, and they are placed on different planes. And there are also examples: From governments and public institutions to private corporations, councils, or directors of the administration, or to the townships, organisms, and private corporations. And I am not going to enumerate the most familiar and mediatic cases, because we know them all, and we all know what most of them have in common, which are always repeated. I'd like to focus on the stability of this proposal today. This proposal of the law was brought to us on November 9th, in some measure due to the answer which President Urcullu had made to a question in the ploney control. Then he invited us to anticipate and control irregular conduct beyond the accusations. And somehow he confessed that at that moment there was a margin in that plune. And we took the words from the President, and after a month and a month's examination of the established legislation, we presented the proposal of the law which we have brought here to take to Tramit, in order to prevent the revolutions and interests of the gates. And what is primarily what we propose with this law? For through this law what we do is to introduce elements with the aim, as I said at the beginning, of avoiding or hindering to the maximum the rotating doors. Thus, we define the rights and obligations established also for private entities when hiring persons during and after the period of public office. Business companies, companies and groups of companies operating in strategic sectors, foundations, associations or non-profit entities founded or directly or indirectly involved by the former... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... of companies operating in strategic sectors, foundations, associations or non-profit entities founded or directly or indirectly involved by the abovementioned entities; or how many organisational structures may be established to circumvent the application of this Law. And this is an important element of the Law, because today only conditions and obligations are laid down for subjects in the public sphere. And through this law, through this law, we also do so to private companies and entities. And this is an issue that the Government, in its opinion, takes as its main element to show its unfavorable approach to the processing of this law, because in its view, in its view, this is not in line with the rules. And I say in your opinion because it is not too well-founded, to which no legal report on this matter accompanies it. And we don't think that's true. And once I have examined and examined your judgment, I will explain. The code of the public offices, and the 1/2014 law which regulates the conflict of their interests, is 18. In the article, it says: "From the day when they leave the office of those who serve the public office for the next two years, on account of the office, they are unable to provide any service to any enterprise, societt, or any other private entity which they have been connected with, and can have no commerce or commerce with them. In the case of the law of the case, the compositions of the damage, or the preparation, may be well adapted." And from this point of view, Precisamente 18. By the fact that the law itself is a matter of general interest, it must be said that the Esquical Autonomy has a right to regulate the activity of the organizations and operators of private areas, and to regulate the general interests which influence the whole society. And in matters which concern the equality of men and women, in respect of respect of the environment, or in matters relating to security and health, to give some examples. Therefore we have a right to regulate the most part of the activity in private countries, when it answers to the general interest. At the present day, as the law of 1/2014 is at present, it has a kind of legal uncertainty, which is what we seek to improve and strengthen by this proposition. And therefore we believe that the laws must be a view to the reality of spinning doors. If laws, companies, society, or other private entities, are not also established by this prohibition, the law is exposed to the execution of the ends, or the abuse of the law is increased or increased. And it is not intelligible to the Julian uncertainty that causes this possibility to be left irregular. In fact, the prevention of fraud depends on the measures of the Euskal Autonomy in the Carthusians of the Esquires. And that's what Euskal Autonomy has a right to. That's why I'm saying our proposal of law is perfectly appropriate and that it's self-reproachative. So we don't agree with the section of the report that's made by "Mudal Autonomy" that is indicated that there is no right to regulate the behavior of private entities. Also, we also shield and give the period of lack of two years, (...) as an object of law. And we set the limitation for public discharges in the use of their influences to access boards of directors after abandoning public responsibilities from the scope of law enforcement. Something that we do not properly understand in the current legislation. And then we make a proposal more explicitly after the renewal of this same legislature of the Basque Court of Public Accounts Law, where the possibility of another case such as José Luis Bilbao has not been shielded. And that is why we have established the incompatibility of being a member of the Basque Court of Public Accounts to deputies from the historical territories, as well as having been mayor in some municipality. As if there were not enough people trained in this country for that responsibility, to be members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, without having been the most responsible of an institution that has to be monitored precisely by this body. And lastly, and as a qualitative contribution through the law that we present today for processing, we create the independent body for the Code of Ethics and Good Government; the body competent to receive observations, consultations, and responsible for issuing agreements and raising them for resolution to the adviser responsible in public office. This body shall act in the development of its activity and the fulfilment of its purposes with full independence, which is indispensable for the fulfilment of the objectives set out in this legislation. It will also be responsible for promoting changes and development of the Code of Ethics and Conduct. This body, therefore, which we are proposing, replaces the current Ethics Commission, which consists of political positions which we make disappear through this law. While recalling at this point that the current composition of the Commission, with three members of the Government itself, three members appointed by the Government itself, out of the five that make up it - the other two directly appoint the Government - is far from European standards for this type of body. Not to mention, not to mention his fame for devoting himself to exempting fellow government officials by making-up actions of dubious honesty, of dubious ethics, which he has done so far, and giving permissions to government officials to breach the period of deficiency covered by the law, which is what he has dedicated himself to. Not to mention inoperation, inoperation or capacity or lack of capacity or inefficiency; with significant delays, failing to comply with its own law. For example, when preparing your memoirs, it seems that it will also go to more. At least I know that you have a petition in the current Ethics Committee that you have had for more than nine months. You're out of line. A petition, a petition dating from August 18 to 2021. And then in your opinion, in your unfavorable opinion, you tell us that the independent body we are proposing is ineffective. The issue of effectiveness is funny. Its proven ineffectiveness invalidates for itself its own argument. We and we propose another model more aligned with European experiences. But it seems to bother them or it seems he doesn't like it. And against the government (... ) We believe that the last two arguments, worth mentioning here, deserve a special mention, especially a special mention of it to-day-to-day.... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... that they deserve a special mention, especially because they are arguments in some way favourable to the transfer to-day. I think, even if it's a contrary judgment. On the one hand, the government says, "I'm afraid I'm going to see you again." "The intention of the law's proposition is to assign inspection and control to the collective forms of official officers who expect a new and objective, sharp, and desidolous line of public actions. These collective functionaries are not described, and it does not show what their undertakings, means, and rights are." And the government is right: they are not described, they are not identified, and they are not defined; the Government is right. And in front of this we have two choices: or, as is usual, develop by rule, is it not? Or get the law there and specify it. But if we can do either of them, we'll have to accept the law we're proposing today, right? So if there's a margin for improvement, then we've made proposals in that sense. Portzierto, zentzu honetan, the Independent Office for the Regulation and Supervision of Recruitment and the Office of Conflicts of Interest of the Spanish State - with which many like to compare to show better positions in this regard - these two offices consist of officials belonging to any of the bodies or scales corresponding to the General Administration. In this case, I believe that the Basque Autonomous Community suspends in this comparison with the Spanish State. Y la última de las... de los armentos que el Gobierno en este datamen desfavorable, and it is also surprising that a basplic should be introduced into the activity of the law of the Eustian law. And in this, too, the government is right. He's right: We didn't get it in our legal proposition and we had to get it. And when he's right, we don't have any trouble confessing. Let us therefore turn to this law of rotation and interest, and open this field to the legislature, which we have no difficulty in doing so. The government is right that the legislature should also be recorded in this law. We're ready for it, too, we have no problem. You? And we believe that we have seen from 2014 to the Etic code that the spinning doors remain common in the Basque Autonomia Er member. But the idea I've often repeated because of its normality, − is not normal, much less not appropriate. And to end with these, we must at some time take measures. For, unfortunately, the spinning doors that strengthen the clitian nets will not decrease. Swivel doors won't go away. But it's also being one way... It is happening as if it were a natural process when it is not, quite the contrary, since in recent years the public sector has established an increasingly close relationship with the private sector, with the privatization of strategic sectors first, or through so-called public-private collaboration, and even - as we see - with this same executive, outsourcing in consultancies and advisory services, etc., tasks and functions specific to a government. Therefore, the relationship and contact with the private company is increasing, and therefore the risk of revolving doors as well. When a moving door, very obvious and mediatic, is given in society, the dispute and anger are aroused, the alarm is aroused, but the alarm is soon forgotten, after the noise of two or three days. But the harm he does to the public system, the interest of the public, is maintained in time, and he does not cease to be a system, whether he be a state, or a community, when he is built with such means, because public powers ultimately depend on private interests. Roberto Scarpinato, Italian anti-mafia judge, a colleague of the notorious Falcone and Borselino, wrote in 2006: "If the State is born of overcoming private powers and rules by setting up a superior body that mediates between private powers in favor of the general interest, the State dies or begins to die when these private powers take hold of it and submit it to their own logics." Eta, hot horretara tip, baten statu, baten herri, erkidego baten eskubideak, demokrazia bera eta ethika, definitiboki, gailenduk izasen dira, merkatuaren logikengatik. Eta beraz, horretaz ari gara, éta, horregatik, EH Bilduren ardura until birakariak is of interest catazkak arautzeko. Eta horretara dator gaur tradora ekarri dugun lege hau. President Urkullu asked us to make proposals beyond the charge of charges. And we think today we have a clear opportunity to show you that you have political will enough to accept this law. It is a serious, measured law that the individuals who have been entrusted with politics, the institution, and the Public Administration have a full right to go to private business, and that we can go. In our time, it's the most common thing, our reality is to go back to our jobs, it's allowed to go on at a professional career. But that's not what we're talking about with the proposal of this law. We are speaking of high offices and direct care in a country, and of those practices which lead the conduct of certain particular companies to the posts and councils of administration. And therefore we do not wish to deprestiate the same politics at these times, and therefore honourably for the preparation of politics, is what we propose in the defence of the general interest to be regulated and limited by those channels, because they require it for the sake of a democratic hygiene and political responsibility. And to conclude, as I said at first, the end of this law is to prevent as much as possible from the practice known to the spinning door. And that's what we're going to vote today: one step forward to end with the spinning doors, either vote yes or deny it, and close the way. And to conclude, as I said at the beginning, the objective of this law is nothing but to hinder and hinder the phenomenon known as revolving doors. And that's exactly what we're going to vote on today: we're going to vote – who we're going to vote on – take a step forward to make it difficult, hinder the phenomenon known as revolving doors, or they can... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... we will vote, those of us who vote yes, take a step forward to hinder or hinder the phenomenon known as rotating doors, or you can vote no, and in this way, you will not exactly close a door, but you will keep the current rotating doors well greased open so that they continue to rotate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u3	Mila esker, mahaiburu andrea, egun on guztioi. First of all, we must say that we are going to support the handling of this bill, because our parliamentary group sees with good eyes all those initiatives that are aimed at increasing transparency, the fight against corruption, and limit the power and influence that large companies have on the normal functioning of our democracy. And we don't care who the initiative comes from, if it's fair, go ahead with it. In Basque society, as in Spanish society, we often see how senior officials of the Administration and the governing parties alternately occupy positions in both private enterprise and public administration. This is a common practice in politics in general, and it also causes great discomfort in the citizenry, because this type of behavior does not improve the image of politics, but on the contrary, it extends a doubt about the parties and the high offices it governs, coming to doubt about the interests that politicians are defending when they are in the exercise of their functions, present or future. It is tearing to see how public offices put their knowledge at the service of private enterprise without just supervision over incompatibilities or periods of deficiency. And the problem is not that a professional develops his career beyond the political space, but when there are well-founded suspicions that between the goings and comings from one sector to another, the public interest can be contaminated with private demands and interests or with future employment expectations. That is why I would now like to take up our proposal for a law for the creation of the public energy company that we are presenting on 10 March, because energy and electricity companies are directly related to the proposal for a law that we are debating today. We could also talk about companies in the field of health, education or construction, but curiously, revolving doors are often more frequent or more often in energy oligopoly companies. Therefore, it is obvious that the idea of creating a public energy company clashs head-on with the interests of energy companies and threatens their (?) and therefore with the politicians who end up on their boards of directors, having previously been these participants in decisions that are directly related to their later jobs. All this is a well-tied and well-tied work journey, where the former public interests clash with the new economic interests of private companies. And if we look back, October 15 was the day the Decree Law was ratified to mitigate the impact of the price scale on gas and oil. Let us bear in mind that the PNV abstained from supporting this proposal, the purpose of which was nothing less than to establish a series of general measures to benefit all consumers. Specific measures with the greatest impact, if any, on the most vulnerable consumers. In addition to abstaining, they based this decision on the firm and closed defense of the interests of the big electrics, who far from losing by (?), they have seen how their benefits have multiplied. And either because they have held some public office, or because they have been part of the government, there is evidence of what is already unquestionable: the phenomenon of revolving doors is firmly rooted in the Basque Autonomous Community. Presidents, vice presidents, advisors, economic advisors and a long list of names closely linked to the PNV – since it is the party that has ruled during these 40 years – have been registered by the different boards of directors. I don't know what electrics, energy companies have, so that politicians and vice versa end up occupying chairs on these same boards of directors. Josu Jon Imaz, President of the PNV, Petronor and Natural Gas; Juan Diego, Edinor; Jon Azua, Fenix Oil & Gas; Joseba Andoni Aurrekoetxea, Bizkaia Gas and Bizkaia Photovoltaica Bay; Juan María Atutxa, Bizkaia Gas Bay; Xabier Sagredo, Counsellor in Iberdrola; Atxurra, former Interior Advisor, Naturcorp and Pasaia Gas; Mario Fernández, Advisor in Repsol; Ignacio Zudaire, former Counsellor in Petronor, current member of the National Energy Council; Andoni Basagoiti, former Finance Advisor, in the direction of Gamesa (?); Josu Bergara, Bizkaia Gas Bay; Roberto Otxandio, Iberdrola Councillor. It is common for people who have occupied positions on the boards of directors of large companies, i.e., for the benefit of high remuneration, when leaving their public space, to incur multiple conflicts of interest. The reason is that they carry information that can be valuable for the future position. Which, unfortunately, to another form of corruption. Unfortunately, today public control and supervision of fraudulent conduct has become an indispensable tool. Let us bear in mind that we live in a territory where legislation in this area is incomplete, and it is also fragmented. Both the autonomous administrations, the outlaws, and the locals have control tools, but still there is a great dispersion of registers and interests, as well as different bodies responsible for their custody. This is a situation that clearly makes it difficult to control the activity of those who have held high office. We must avoid the transfer of information, and for this we must limit the professional careers of these people after their passing through public life, without arbitrariness, and in such a way that their working lives are oriented to avoid possible breaches in the legal framework. To do this, a rigorous system of incompatibilities, a thorough control of... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... orientated to avoid possible breaches in the legal framework. This requires a rigorous system of incompatibilities, thorough control of lobbyists and lobbyists, control of any conflict of interest and, ultimately, a strict sanction system on reprehensible conduct arising from public activity. When trust in politics is at stake, we must overcome the idea that mere compliance with legality exempts us from any other obligation. And the parties themselves should be the first to want to resolve these kinds of situations. From our parliamentary group we are clear that it is essential to set in advance and with thoroughness... and with thorough clarity the limits to be respected after having passed through public life. For this reason, we are convinced that the ideal would have been, as we proposed in the last parliamentary term, to create a Basque Transparency Agency that controls the performance of all administrations in a unified way. An agency which, of course, would act autonomously and independently. Today's proposal, which we are debating today, also obtains an independent body for the code of ethics and good governance. Perfect. For this reason, and as we said at the beginning, we must put an end to this fabric of influence and revolving doors, at the same time as limiting the power of large companies. Such reprehensible practices must be limited. It is of the utmost importance that both in the political and administrative fields they are equipped with more forceful and robust rules, subjecting them to all high political posts. And this exercise is due to two purposes: the first, and more direct, the whole of the Basque administration must exercise in defense of the public interest and the common good; and the second, equally important, purpose that thanks to transparency and good governance citizens must regain confidence and even illusion in public institutions. Having said all this, we would like to reiterate our support for the handling of this bill. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. We'll go in reverse shift. Missa-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. Isn't anyone else supposed to be involved?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, counselors. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on ethical and political conduct. Both are two concepts that should go hand in hand, but, unfortunately, reality on numerous occasions tells us the opposite. The proponent of the initiative is the worst example to talk about it since Bildu's behaviour is in the antipodes of political ethics. Bildu in the last plenary is presenting some initiatives trying to offer lessons on good political practice. We understand that this behavior responds to Operation Pendant, initiated by Mr. Sánchez to try to whiten his past and thus be able to agree with them without any indecentness. Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, this political formation is not going to contribute as much as possible to whitewashing your past, and therefore do not count on our vote in favour of your initiative. Bildu's only worried about the swivel entrance doors. And we're also worried about the rotating exit doors. The exits that benefit ETA prisoners through release; revolving doors to get out of prison without having shown the slightest regret and without helping to clarify the 379 unresolved ETA crimes. And we are also concerned about the rotating doors Mr Sánchez used to pardon the Catalan coupsmen who were condemned for sedition hardly considerable and who showed no regret. In Spain the rotating doors are used in two ways: on the one hand, entry to the boards of directors for the amiguetes and, on the other, exit for terrorists and thugs. And this political group, unlike you, we don't like each other. For Vox politics must have a clear vocation of public service. The citizen must be at the centre of political action and solve his problems and meet his needs, must be the priority for those who exercise political activity. Unfortunately, we are living one of the most despicable moments of politics, motivated by inappropriate conduct maintained over the years by those who have ruled this country for four decades. PP and PSOE are parties splashed by corruption. Let's make a little historical review to properly situate ourselves and remember where we came from. Currently there is a media stream aimed at highlighting the figure of Felipe González, forgetting that he was the first president whose management was plagued by unethical practices. The Filesa case, the state's reserved funds, the AVE commissions or the Roldan case, where they detracted funds for orphans from the Civil Guard, are just one of the few examples we could give. In a more recent era, the EREs of Andalusia have been another example of the null moral waste of a party that was spending money to provide an opportunity for unemployed people in brothels and cocaine. What about the other representative of partyism, the PP, who also have that? During the years of Marianism it has been a party ravaged by cases of corruption. Barcenas, Kitchen, Púnica or Gürtel are other good examples of the modus operandi of bipartisanism. The shadow of corruption has also had its space in the Basque Country, it could not be otherwise. Miguel's case has been the best known. The bites of the Alava PNV are convinced that they are not an isolated case in the Basque ethical oasis that the PNV intends to present. There is one issue that nobody talks about and that this political group is very curious about, and we are talking about the real estate assets accumulated through the batzokis. We are talking about a property estate close to, even higher than, EUR 100 million. In many cases we talk about properties located in the best areas of each municipality and high quality properties. No one is curious to know where the money came from to finance the purchase of about 300 properties? If no one asks, there's no doubt something's wrong. Perhaps what fails is that much is asked, but very little dare to verbalize it publicly because of the reverential fear of ruling nationalism and its budgetary power. For our group, the concept of rotating doors is not limited only to what is proposed. We interpret it from a much broader perspective, including also nepotism and clientelism. The rotating doors are a much broader form of management, in which the parasitization of public administrations is included through nepotism and clientelism... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... they are a much broader form of management, in which the parasitization of public administrations is included through nepotism and corporate clientelism that we will then discuss. But if we want to talk about rotating doors in a strict sense, the best option is to put names and surnames of their beneficiaries. We believe that, following the passage of public activity, every position must have the right to re-establish its working life. Otherwise, he would be sentenced to civilian death. But we also think that politics cannot be a simple trampoline for access to large companies with the sole function of using their political influence. This section does not save any of the parties that are part of bipartisanism and neither does the PNV, to which we will dedicate a separate chapter. Let's go with some names. In the PSOE: Felipe González filed for Naturgas; Narcís Serra and Trinidad Jiménez filed for Telefónica; Elena Salgado, for Endesa, and lastly, Pepiño Blanco, for Enagas. As for the PP: Aznar was hired by Endesa; Eduardo Zaplana, by Telefónica, Ángel Acebes, former member of the Council of Iberdrola, ex-minister Isabel Tocino, hired by Enagas and several financial entities; another ex-minister, Ana Palacio, is on the Council of Enagas, and finally, Soraya Santamaría, works in the well-known office Cuatrecasas. But perhaps to better understand the phenomenon of revolving doors, you have to look for their motivation: what leads large firms to hire relevant politicians who have held high responsibilities? The answer is very simple: their recruitment does not respond to the performance of ordinary professional work like any other worker, the recruitment responds to the use of their political influence to obtain favors that increase the results account of the companies. All the above-mentioned posts and many other second-level posts are working between schools, with the sole objective of taking off the phone to use its influence and thus achieve political favors. They are simply achievers of institutional prebendas. I said earlier that during my speech I was going to dedicate a specific chapter to the Basque Nationalist Party, and I am going to dedicate it to it because the PNV is the champion of the rotating doors, understood these in the broadest sense. The PNV has used self-government to build and sustain a real regime; a regime dealing with cases of revolving doors, nepotism and client endogamy. A modus operandi where being a PNV offers guarantees of success and makes one a top citizen. And all this framed in a perfectly designed and organized strategy that results in tens of thousands of captive votes. The Basque Nationalist Party is aware that every job it offers or every public contract it awards has a multiplier return in the form of an electoral vote. And, as I said earlier, this strategy reports a great flow of captive votes. But let's also name and surname the rotating doors with the Basque label. We started with two family clans. The first, related to the Ardanza family. The exlehendakari was president of Euskaltel, but, in turn, was president of a company called Idoki S.L. This merchant received public aid from the Basque administration for more than EUR 2 million, despite the fact that it accumulated losses. We continue with the Atutxa family clan. The former councillor and former president of this House was a member of the Iberdrola Council. He highlights the business structure of his family, led by his children, which received more than 200 public contracts for an amount exceeding 60 million euros. Within this family, he also highlights one of his children, Asier, who in 2019 was appointed by the consultant PriceWaterhouse, to whom he had already awarded a contract during his stage as president of the Port of Bilbao. Casualities of life that after Atutxa's registration by the consultant this will be awarded for 18 million euros of the International Centre of Entrepreneurship that represents the star project of the Diputación de Bizkaia. Atutxa's registration by the well-known consultant was justified by its president as a strategic bet from the company to increase public sector recruitment. To conclude with this section, which could be eternal and endless, I will refer to three former General Deputies of Bizkaia. The first, Jose Alberto Pradera, who is part of a business network that has received around 20 million euros in public contracts. Next, we will refer to the case of Josu Bergara, this former deputy general of Bizkaia formed part of the Board of Directors of the Mercantile Residences Nostem, which received two awards for an amount of approximately 400 million euros for the construction and operation of two elderly residences in the Encartaciones area. And in conclusion, let us refer, for example, to José Luis Bilbao. It is well known that this former deputy general was appointed president of the Court of Auditors in an unprecedented and unparalleled gesture. More than an appointment, it was a provocation, an exercise of pride and arrogance by the PNV, which, once again, confuses the institutions with its party. One more example of how the PNV rules this community as its great batzoki. It is unheard of that he should be placed at the head of an institution which must ensure the observance of the legality of whom, for example, had very close relations with Javier Fernández, condemned by the Iurbenor case. But far from making an amendment, the PNV has recently appointed Ana Helguera, former Councillor of Getxo, as the new President of the Court of Auditors. I think we've done a good review of all those who feel legitimized to give Vox lessons in political ethics. You can't teach either ethics or political aesthetics, because your trajectory puts black on white your bad political arts. We must distinguish between the noble art of politics and the politicians who degrade and degrade it. We need a new sap of politicians who make the vocation of public service their priority. And we need public representatives that serve the general interest and not the very same. Representatives committed to citizenship, their demands and their needs, and not to spurious, hidden and undefeated interests. You all regret the rise of the political party like Vox, as if this rise were the product of chance. Blaming millions of voters for choosing a political option that challenges their management, corruption, nepotism or clientelism is simply throwing balloons out and not realizing a reality that has come to stay. You are solely responsible for your own mistakes... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...it's just throwing balloons out and not realizing a reality that's come to stay. You're solely responsible for your own mistakes, don't look guilty out there, there aren't. Search inside: in your own ranks, in your recipes, in your policies, in your weavings, in your disconnection from citizenship, the one you claim to represent, but that you feel less and less represented by yourselves. The mere presentation of this initiative is a recognition of the failure of the model they represent. The rotating doors respond to a model and a concrete political philosophy. They are the tip of an iceberg of enormous dimensions, where nepotism, clientelism and arbitrary decisions that favor terrorists and coups are sheltered. If we want to put an end to all this, there is no other option but to regenerate political life as a necessary step to regain the credit and prestige of the public institutions that you have helped to degrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u6	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Estarrona must not speak. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours. No. [[Pause]] If the debate is over, it will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 26; the opponents are 42; the charges are six, the white ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u7	So it's not a question of legal proposal. We'll go next to the vote. The popular Party-Ciudadnanos representative, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our group has abstained in the vote on taking into account this proposal for a law amending the code of conduct for conflicts of interest in public offices in order to avoid revolving doors. The reasons that have led us to this are the following, I will try to synthesize them in the minutes I have, that there is a problem with the rotating doors? Yeah. What's to be avoided? Yeah. How do you avoid them? And this is where the different options arise: there are groups that prefer to ban them – because, we ban the revolving doors and with this it is already over –, other groups what we have been doing since the beginning of this legislature is to establish a series of proposals that we believe are more favourable and that can also contribute to creating a culture of excellence, independence, efficiency, efficiency in the public sector and above all to contribute in this way to avoiding these kinds of issues. Especially because according to the proposed law, and also the Government's approach has interesting considerations, of course, if a person has held a public office or a position in a public enterprise, perhaps for a dialogue he or she already has to wait two years to reintegrate himself or herself perhaps into the public sector. This has happened, for example, also at the national level with the law that we can have at this time. With this, what I want to say is that if we really want to avoid the revolving doors - which I understand that all the groups that are represented in this House owe it to us and we also want, at least in our case, to avoid - what it is about is getting public sector management that is independent, efficient and excellent. How do you get this? Look, Your Honor, it's very simple: choosing the best with maximum transparency and strengthening control mechanisms. How do you get this? Look, we recently discussed the Public Sector Act in which our group presented a series of measures which precisely sought to improve the situation and precisely contributed to a more independent, efficient and excellent public sector. Unfortunately, therefore, both the proposing group and others voted against our amendments, that is not the subject of this debate now, but what is the subject of this debate is also the trend and what the groups themselves claim. This motion for a law we vote against, because in reality what it seeks is practically to functionalize not only the public business sector - which is quite functional - but also the private sector itself, or simply to pretend to ban the rotating doors so simply, without establishing a regulation that is not logical, that is congruent. We understand that this is not how things are done and that we will not be able to have a business public sector that is truly independent, efficient and excellent. How are we gonna do this? With a series of measures that I insist on, our group has already tabled and that we will perhaps be bringing back again, which I have not invented as some fellow parliamentarian told me here in a debate also not long ago, but which are taken from the recommendations made by the OECD and which are very simple. How do you solve this? Creating a Statute for Directors of the Basque Public Sector. How do you solve this? Creating an independent public sector executive recruitment agency. How are the rotating doors fixed? Evaluating also all public policies and all the actions of public enterprises in an independent manner. And how do you do this about everything? With a policy of transparency that begins with an appearance prior to the commission of all the high... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... the performance of public undertakings in an independent manner. And how do you do this? Especially with a policy of transparency that begins with a pre-commission appearance of all senior and assimilated officials in the corporate public sector who have to go through here to explain their kindness or resume before being appointed. This is the real solution, not only the legal and institutional controls - which are good - but also above all, and very important in this case, which is also social control. Then, at one of the speaking times, I think the debate has gone a little bit. We have been mentioned here, of course there are cases of corruption that affect all political groups, of course they do. That is why we also propose that we should have a debate, rather than abstaining, and that we should not vote against it. And there are cases of corruption that obviously affect all groups, and that is something that this Parliament should certainly tackle. It happens that before a list has been made of many cases, some have been forgotten. The case of Baña de Vox, the case of Moyano de Vox, Fabian Moyano, Moyano Fabian, the case of Nogueras, also of Vox. But anyway, the listing is long, listed is long and we could be here all morning. I simply believe that, man, of course, it is true that some groups do not seem to see bad that a state lawyer is forcing legislation to run for election in Andalusia, but, on the other hand, they see bad that a state lawyer, because within the law, becomes hired in a private office. What I am going to say is that, and what is very important is that we have, ladies and gentlemen, to take this matter seriously, the issue above all of what are not the rotating doors in general, but what is the transparency and control of the public business sector in Euskadi. And that is why we, ladies and gentlemen, abstained, because we believe that the debate can be of interest, but above all, we want to take it seriously, and that is why we will bring other measures to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u10	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors. In the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, a number of rules have been established regarding the incompatibility of public offices with the aim of ensuring transparency, effectiveness and dedication of public functions and avoiding any activity or interest that could compromise independence, impartiality or undermine the performance of public duties. The Socialists have always argued that the ethical duty of the public and also the social duty must be guaranteed; because it is a question of preserving the legitimate confidence that Basque society places in those who manage the common interest, as well as the transparency of our action in political life. And precisely because we believe it and take it seriously it was we, the Basque Socialists, who in 2014 presented to this House the proposed law regulating the code of conduct of public office and its regime of incompatibilities. A giant step that, by becoming law, has allowed to advance and deepen in this way, expanding the public offices subject to this control and regulating the principles, obligations, guarantees, procedures and sanctions that seek the primacy of the general interest. And of course we believe that we have to go further in this area, but that is where we are. Because it must be remembered that the Basque Government has already started the procedure for drawing up the preliminary draft law on transparency and citizen participation, just as we committed ourselves to this very House when we last discussed revolving doors. By the way, with the unanimous agreement of all the parliamentary groups at this point. A project that we include in the government agreement, and that will seek to promote a more open and transparent administration that accounts for its management in real time. Therefore, no... no way. In the face of this bet today Bildu has proposed to this Parliament that consideration be given to the amendment of the law regulating the code of conduct of the public office and its regime of incompatibilities. We have voted against it because, in our view, the proposed text does not cease to be a compendium of issues that have already been discussed in this Parliament and which, as you know, have not been approved by this House. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. Jarraian, EH Bilduren law proposed that hartzeareen aurka bozkatzeko razoiak azalduk deutsuedaz. Lehenik eta behin, eremu pribatu arutu gure don, indarrean dagoen legearen 1. Age 2. artikuluak aldatzeko proposed menetan. Eta kontratzio publiko-pribatuaren eremua arautzeko asmo horrek nabarmen gainitzen give Ganbera honen eskumen eremua. Eta hori, berez, nahikoa da kontuan ez hartzeko. But, of course, there are more reasons. They propose the establishment of the independent body for the code of ethics and good governance in place of the staff registration service, which is currently in place under existing legislation. In fact, much of the proposed amendments revolve around the creation of this body; specifically, at least – if I have not counted badly – half of the 28 proposed amendments. In truth, the party proposers plan to change the structure that is already in use, but they do not add prohibitions, conditions, or reservations; no bararis, no resources. "Vamos a contar con una mayor efficacia?" En nuestra opinión, no. With the proposal to amend the current additional first provision, they also claim that the first, second and 18, 23bis, 23ter, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, of new creation be applied to public posts in the outlying territories in some cases. The aim is to broaden the regulation of outsourced public offices by obviating the capacity for self-organisation of outsourced territories. That would be a novelty. In our view, this is in clear contradiction with the first point of the first additional provision, which the proposer maintains in its current wording, since, in practice, they would fall under the jurisdiction of the intended body of new creation. This proposal has a more than dubious legal fit, as I have already said, for exceeding the competence of this House. And this proposal seeks to change a structure without going in to regulate or add any other improvement. In our view, in the end, this proposal does not provide. And those have been the reasons why we voted... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... regular or add any other better. In our view, in the end, this proposal does not provide. And these have been the reasons why we voted against its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos-Nodemus as a parlamentary group of parliamentary factions with each other, in order to make decisions on climate change and transition of energy in order to promote the sharing of the citizens in the Euscadian People. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, there's a Mrs. Podemos-Noker's wife who's representing the Animal Team, she's got the word to introduce and defend herself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. To increase the war, pandemia, energy and product prices in the Ukraine... We have serious problems here, but that doesn't remove any serious problems that we have in the world, and this is what concerns the climate crisis. It's true that we don't see Greta Thunberg every day in these years, but that doesn't leave the climate crisis. For us, my team, together with the Podemos-Areauerda Unida, the pretty things to deal with climate change would have to be a priority, and that's why we've brought this initiative here today. Our initiative, our proposal, is to create a popular Esscal assembly for the change of climate. Here, in this assembly, the citizens would be the hero at the time to propose measures for the change of climate and transition of energy. As you know, the Citizens' Assembly for Climate Change is a new figure that has been created in article 39 of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which was adopted at the Congress of Deputies on April 14, 21, last year. This law obliges the creation of a citizens' assembly at the state level. This obligation took shape, materialized in September 2021, with the entry into force of an order establishing the composition and functioning of citizens' assemblies. This order underlines the importance of randomness and impartiality in the selection of individuals, and the dynamics of a series of three-phase meetings: in a first phase, it would be training, learning by a group of experts; a second phase would consist of discussion and discussion; and a third phase, in which recommendations are drawn up, a report is drawn up and a list of recommendations voted on. Precisely this past 22 May, this Sunday, the Citizens' Assembly concluded the first of its work with a report containing 172 recommendations. It is true that it has not, unfortunately, had the media echo it would have required, but this work is done. Therefore, I say, the launch of the Citizens' Assembly at the state level is an obligation that creates the law. However, at the autonomous level it is not: it is not an obligation, although it is a recommendation. Even so, although it is a recommendation, the Government of Navarre, for example, did, with the favourable votes of all political parties in its parliament, bring forward a law on climate change, which has incorporated in article 15 the creation of a citizens' assembly for climate change, with characteristics very similar to those of the state order. It would be desirable for us in Euskadi too to be able to pass this law and to incorporate in this law the creation of a citizens' assembly for climate change. Focused on this objective, we have succeeded in signing a compromise with the parties supporting the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, and also with EH Bildu, on the basis of this initiative that we have presented. A transaction that is composed of two points. "E el primero de los tipsos," they say: "The U.S.P.A. wants to know that in the future law of transitions and climate change an open formula and accessible channels should be established, in order to ensure the cooperation of the citizens in the legislation of the present state which is to be applied and applied, without hurting other formulas to participate and debate. In order to do this, the first mechanism of participation will strengthen them, and in the process of making decisions in the climate, ensures the participation of the citizens in a structure." We believe that this forum or assembly of participation should be an instrument of deliberative democracy, through which citizens take the floor, and it is citizens who, after a process of formation and debate, are able to propose measures that have a broad consensus to fight climate change and plan a just energy transition to address the major challenges ahead. Because it's not just about energy: it's also about water management, land care, biodiversity, food sovereignty... And we believe that in all these matters citizenship deserves to be heard. The second point, if we look at the medium, is this: "The American law insists upon making a forum or a assembly for the public membership in an exercise of deliberation and collective knowledge, which will give them information, debates, and the consent of the people, in order to obtain neutrality before the year 2050, and to make the effects of the climate more accurate for the application of a Euskacid, the solutions to the great modifications which must be made to begin with, the whole way in which it is to begin... "... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... to know what solutions are to be made for great modifications, in a just and consistent manner. Foro, this point continues to say, that the constitution, order, and action of that or assembly, which has a right to the field of environment, will be granted by command." If we look at the State Climate Change Act and the Navarra Act that have also been approved, these orders say, it could also be to take into account for the order developed by the competent person in Euskadi: "The Assembly consists of about 100 people, who are selected by means of a representative drawing according to criteria of age, territory, urban, rural, gender, income, etc." Something that's not new and the truth is that it does remind us quite of the composition of the jurors. It's interesting that it's by drawing lots and that people help; that's what we believe from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, and that people are like members of the citizenry, without representing any ideological sector, no lobby, or anything. Once these persons have been selected, the Government proposes a question to the Assembly. In the first mandate of the State Assembly to which I referred earlier and which concluded the first of its tasks on 22 May, the question that was raised was the following: a safer and fairer Spain in the face of climate change, how do we do that? The truth is that there are other questions that can satisfy us more, and that have also been raised in other countries, such as France, which has raised a question that is quite more concrete, and which says: "How can we achieve a reduction of at least 40% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 in a spirit of social justice? In any case, the question may be more or less satisfactory, but what matters is the mechanism of participation open to citizens offered by such forums or citizen assemblies. We believe that the dimension of the challenges we are going to have to address need ways of doing policy that we are probably not used to. We believe that society must start, it must start to take responsibility and to make decisions, and we must also start to trust the institutions in the citizenship, in the same way as we ask them, that we ask the citizens to trust the political institutions. I'll leave it here for the second round of Queda pendente, pero wello, I'll leave it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs. Larre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u16	Thank you, good morning. Thank you, President, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start my speech as I do in the amendment we are proposing urging the government to take the Basque climate change law. Mrs Gorrotxategi, in your proposal not for initial law, you refer to the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan; and you know that we have pushed for it to be processed as soon as possible. But as you will also know, there are deadlines to ensure participation in the development of this plan, and therefore, and because it has begun processing after 12 years of the planned, we are waiting for that Euskadi Sectoral Territorial Renewable Energy Plan. Saving this, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the drafting of a law already has a well-defined process that aims to ensure transparency and effectiveness in the drafting of any law that is being processed in this Parliament. At the beginning of the legislature, I, and I suppose all Members of Parliament, were given a copy of the correct regulation. I got it. So, I don't have to explain the rules, do I? I got it. I therefore do not have to explain the regulation to you, because we all know it. Regulation guaranteeing the process of drafting each law. And there are ways to influence the drafting of laws: appearances, reports of the relevant entities, Eudel, the Local Government Commission, the COJUA, and then the amendments of the groups that make up the House. But what you want here is as always to introduce your way of doing things. Those assembly processes where the loudest voice wins. And we already know how internal democracy works, for example from Podemos, and we know how it ends. And it's really complicated. We, all of us, are protected by parliamentary democracy, by which citizens with their vote decide who will legislate for the next four years.Do you think there is a more democratic way of participation? I'm sure it can be improved. But you are committed to perverting the democratic mechanisms that we have endowed ourselves with, the rules of everyone's game. We, with regard to the compromise amendment that you have agreed with the Nationalist Party and Bildu, will tell you that on the first point... we will ask for the point vote, and on the first point we will vote in favour, of course. They must go ahead, the law, the preliminary draft law on climate change in Euskadi, must be brought to this Parliament. But on the second point, on the second point, we are going to vote against, but you know why? Not because we are so against what it says, because we do believe in citizen participation within what will be done. But it is not defined, it is not defined in that amendment. And then you... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...citizen within what will be done, but it is not defined. That amendment is not defined, and then you are giving the Government a blank cheque to manage that participation as it pleases. And this is what we can't... We're not voting. With regard to the proposal you are making. Well, look, we're here to sow a future where the fight against climate change is effective. Otherwise, we would not be discussing these issues. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u18	Yes, all good days. I don't know if you're following the Davos Fora these days. Davos Forum the world's powerful forehead (besides? They're doing it. Pesimism, pessimism is winning. They're talking about the perfect storm. The perfect storm and its ingredence, the inflation, the urgent crisis, the nutrient and climate crisis of nutrients and nutrients. The climate crisis again. In this changing climate he seems to have lost protagonism, because 2019. the year was the year of mutation, the year of the declaration of emergency. But the 20th and 21st, we got mixed up with pandemi, and now the Ukraine is all talking about it. But in the meantime, the sixth report of the international climate panel has already come, and there is no doubt about it, the climate change is already produced by us, a reproduction has already been given to the meteorological phenomena at the extreme, and if we did not hasten the downfall of the inclination which the profound change gave me, we shall not succeed in this challenge. That's what the best of science says. And not only that. We're breaking every record in the atmosphere the number of CO2 concentrations: It's over 420 apps. And this spring the temperature of the North Pole has registered temperatures 40 degrees more than the historic series. There's no doubt there's a lot of work to go around it. We'll have to do our part, even if our development and our numbers aren't good. We've been studying this subject in the impregency of decorbonization, and I've got one detail left. Jorge Fernandez, the orchestra representative, said for a moment: "tenmos que todo in the country, tenemos que todo in the camp." He said it from the industrial point of view, but what is it that we have to change? We need to re-establish our production and the material metabolism of the society and our neurogetic. It is clear that we are going to a world which has less material and mergetic resources, which has great consequences. And this, in the manner of production, in the management of debris, must produce change in industry. And in parallel to all, we need a deep cultural change in the way that we live and consume. That is to say, the population will be in the centre, not just as the receiver of public politics, but as the designer. This has deep consequences and this process can't be successful. Only those who are plunged in the institutions of politics must participate in the community directly. We speak a great deal of the direct transition of a climate towards climate, but it is necessary to be just, and to be just. To answer the hinges which are parallel to the present context, the climate is one of the principal. New methods of cooperation between the citizen and the public institutions are necessary. He is developing a new aspect of the nation in order to proclaim new models of cooperation and government between the institutions and society. Of these examples there is a wave of deliberation among others, and the assemblies of the people are spreading their projects in the world, which are generally activated by a Cybiean lot. In the words of Claudia Chwalisz of OCDE, 2010. and it is more and more public authority that the people display a decided point of view, in order that they may participate in public decisions. We're seeing that he's here to stop deliberation. It was seen in a report in 2020. in the year 38 processes of deliberation were proposed in the world, of which 26 were set forth, and of which half were connected with the climate and the climate. In the deliberation of democracy the tendency to form ascetic climates, whether in France, in Sweden, in the United Kingdom, in Ireland, in France, in Spain, or even in Spain, are highly remarkable by the process of Scotland. And it's also interesting, because by the impulse of institutions or people, it's called the climateal Parlamento of Sweden, isn't it? Usually by lot, but in some cases willingly. And the selection process is important too. It is generally made out of lots, but it must be assured that there is a vast representation of the public, as well as in some degree balanced, as the genus, the different social origins, and so on. Because it usually pays for a while and provides technical help, methodological support, technical persistence, favorable organization. As in the above glance and process of independent experts, it is generally answered by a question which is already in advance. Not always. Klaro, the trial itself sets up questions and questions. And then it's also interesting how the process is given, because at first it's given a form to those who have been chosen. Then comes deliberation, always with that overlong glance. And then, consistently, or sometimes in the majority, the decisions are made. And then, important as it is, what will become of the mechanism of the implementation. And the results are very interesting because the measures are being reasonable and consistent. Different processes, I'll give you a few examples. What do you propose since 2014? For example, to reduce flights, night train services... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] I'll mention them, won't I? What do you suggest since 2014? For example, to reduce flights, the night train service to reduce these flights. And for example, the Swedish government has implemented that. In the French State the climate convention has been mentioned by Miren to reduce 40% of the flow, here has been proposed to slow down the tax, auto-speed, etc., etc., and so on. The proceedings of Ireland are also interesting, because this deliberation of democracy was at first the subject of the abortion, and then this ascetic population was transformed into a view of the climate. And in the United Kingdom, Asanbal climate of the United Kingdom has also suggested some very interesting measures. Advising progressive rates of flight, prohibition of the todoter's Urban, acceleration of electric cars, diet reductions of flesh, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. So we're seeing that the reasonable measures are coming. And one of the bolts: How far these decisions are consistent. For here, when these proceedings are set out, it is necessary to make an active hearing from the governments, and to make the decisions as binding as possible, is it not? This authority, in some measure, is regulated by the people, and governments allow it to be commanded by the people, by applying it to this maxim. What have we got around us? 29th of the Spanish law. The article, and then the order came. In Navarre, the law and the article of 2022, they both check the population's joints. And here, at the moment, with the delay of the climate −eta law, we have no more than a preponderating project in which "las entidades, locales poduran establecer mecanisms de participalción." We think it's a local, local, local ascetical development, but also an EA-level development. It takes social innovation to give social consensus on this subject, to be successful in the great changes we have to make. When Poseidon proposed the subject, he set it up as the development of the state's law. We thought it would be more appropriate for us to discuss the law of our climate change and transition to use as emergency, to insert it into it, to make it by law, and the mechanism was there. We believe that what we have agreed to-day is in a good way, and that a deliberate democracy is given a clear order to insert into the climate law. And then it's true that the case has been opened, that there will be a forum, that will be an ascetic, but I think that once the principle of a deliberation of democracy will be enabled to bring it forward in a proper manner. And from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u20	President. Vicelehendakaris. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Well, the truth is that coming to the debate on such a broad consensus issue is that speaking as a fourth because much of what had to be said has already been said. I would like to begin by stressing the importance of the Citizens' Assembly for Climate. An unprecedented tool for citizen participation at the national level has been demonstrated. It is rooted in the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters signed in Aarhus, Denmark, on 25 June 1998, where greater public participation in decision-making was already being invited. This would be followed by Directive 2003/4 of the European Parliament and of the Council on public access to environmental information. This rule was transposed by the Socialist Government of Rodríguez Zapatero through Law 27/2006, which regulates the rights of access to information of public participation and access to justice in environmental matters. Article 3 of the above-mentioned Act recognized the right of everyone to participate effectively and effectively in the elaboration, modification and revision of those plans, programmes and general provisions relating to the environment. Following the chronological thread of the evolution of the normative base in relation to the assemblies, it is also worth highlighting the Declaration to the Climate and Environmental Emergency in Spain, approved by the Governing Council... Ministers on 21 January 2020, which included a battery of 30 lines of action to address the climate, environmental crisis and take advantage of the social and economic benefits of the green transition. Within these 30 batteries... of these 30 measures was to strengthen the mechanisms of participation by strengthening and improving the aforementioned Law 27/2026, as well as to guarantee in a structured way the citizen participation in the decision-making process with a citizen assembly. This commitment would be embodied in Act No. 7/2021 on climate change and energy transition, to which reference has been made several times. Article 39.1 of which provides for general plans and programmes, strategies, instruments and arrangements to be adopted in the fight against climate change and energy transition to be carried out under open formulas and accessible channels ensuring the participation of the social and economic actors concerned and the general public. To complete this regulatory review, it has already been done here too, we must put in... we must take into account Order 1086/2021, which establishes the composition, organization and functioning of the Citizens' Assembly for Climate. That is to say, this assembly is the result of a long normative journey that since the international commitments of Aarhus has been falling also in the Spanish legislation. It's not a rabbit that gets anyone out of the joke, not a last-minute occurrence. It is an instrument of citizen participation whose legal bases have been established during different socialist governments. Este... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...last-minute occurrence. It is an instrument of citizen participation whose legal bases have been established during different socialist governments. This same month - it has also been said here - just a few weeks ago, the sixth and final meeting of the Citizens' Assembly for Climate in Spain was held. A work that is proving to be crucial in advancing the common goal of finding solutions to decarbonization, adapting to climate change and pushing for a socially just transition. The Assembly is the representation of the diversity of Spanish society. It is able to discuss and agree recommendations that will be forwarded to the Government and Congress of Deputies. The national experience is showing us the breadth of vision and ambition of the topics addressed by the assembly: consumption, ecosystems, work, food, land use... This is a process of deliberation and pioneering learning in Spain - as I have already said - which has undoubtedly opened up a new path to strengthen public participation and facilitate the adoption of policies in the face of the global climate emergency. The call of the scientific community to promote an unprecedented economic and social transformation requires an informed society that drives changes in production and consumption patterns through its daily behaviors and habits. Focusing on the scope of this Parliament, that of Euskadi, the Socialists see with good eyes the replica of the Citizens' Assembly at both an autonomous and a local level. We did so in the above-mentioned section 39.1 of the Climate Change Act, which literally quotes: "It will be recommended that autonomous assemblies and municipal assemblies be established." But beyond the order to which reference has been made on several occasions, 1086/2021, it not only refers to these assemblies, but also refers to the desirable coordination, interaction between them. Of course, the socialists will argue that the regulation of the Basque citizens' climate assembly is firmly anchored in the future Basque law of climate change and energy transition. In the middle of the 21st century, with the profound social and political changes we are experiencing, the socialists understand that we cannot leave in the hands of a political decision of the governments in charge the creation or not of a tool of participation as important as the Citizens' Assembly for Climate. The normative instrument that protects it cannot be a simple decree. It must be of the highest legal guarantee, and it must therefore be the result of this Parliament's firm commitment to combating climate change and the need to involve all Basque citizens in it. We advocate an independent assembly with absolute freedom to deliberate and make decisions. As has been done in the case of the assembly at national level, it will be necessary to define a series of objective criteria of stratification to designate the participants: criteria of age, gender, educational level, geographical origin, urban residence or rural residence... It will also be necessary to guarantee anonymity to ensure your protection and privacy, and the exercise of your work with complete freedom. Once the work has been completed and the recommendations closed, each participant may decide whether or not to make their contributions known. In conclusion, as stated in Order 1086/2021 in its second article, the total independence of its members must be guaranteed and parliamentarians and congressmen, mayors and councillors, members of the Basque Government or employees of any political party will be excluded from the Assembly. The Socialists defend for Euskadi the same thing we have achieved for Spain: a citizens' assembly for the independent climate, which is as faithful as possible representation of the diversity of Basque society. A forum in which the representation of citizenship, randomly chosen according to criteria that guarantee the maximum possible inclusion, can participate in a free and anonymous manner. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Geaters.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u22	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers, good days to all. Well, I'm glad I'm here today, especially because I thought yesterday afternoon that there'd be no deal about this legal proposal. And I think that you know, because I have often repeated in this tribal the transition to the Myrgetic, and to the climateal change, great agreements in this house, differences, but extensive agreements are really indispensable, if we take the question we have before us, and above all the challenge we have before us. So I come here with more joy than I thought. And they think it's worth talking about the attitude we've had for the deal at the last hour. Here, in a certain moment, I believe there has been an attempt on the side of the community which wished to compare, on the one hand, to participate in the community. And the discussion has never been there. Here the question was, what was to be put in first, whether the carts or the oxen. And some say, that the assembly, because it is the Asamean, ought to be completed as soon as possible, if we go to the original motion, very soon, a year ago, and others thought it necessary to do the contrary, as Mr.−Alonsus has said, it is worth his place, and deserves to be established by a law. And that was the last time, but I think, well, it's been pretty good for us, isn't it? Because as I say, and they have heard me many times, apart from all the requirements such as technologies, companies willing to invest, banks that finance, long-term, medium-term objectives, alliances... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... like technologies, companies willing to invest, banks that finance, long-term, medium-term objectives, alliances, etc. A very important requirement for tackling the energy transition from Euskadi is that apart from the differences that we can each have and from the different approaches that we can each have to this matter, we are able to reach the broadest possible agreements in order that we can all face this situation. And that is precisely where the issue fits into citizen participation, without prejudice to this Parliament, which is not an intermediary of anything, which also represents the will of the people. That we don't come from Mars. That all of us here are part of this people, chosen by this people and he is represented by us. But that is no obstacle so that today, and of course later throughout the drafting of the law, we will all be very clear that, apart from the other challenges that decarbonisation brings with it, the energy transition, a very important challenge in this area is the challenge of governance. And, indeed, I agree with all of you that the transition to a zero-net economy requires great social support, including business, institutional and an efficient governance scheme. Because at the end of the day getting the support and commitment of society and economic and institutional actors to this transition process is essential if the process itself is to be successful, because it is going to be necessary to make a profound change in the behaviour of all actors involved, of course, but also of society itself. Because let us not forget that, for good or for bad, the energy transition will have asymmetrical impacts, if necessary, between economic sectors, within the same sectors often also and of course also between segments of the population. Mr. Alonso said it's complicated to talk in fourth place, because when you're fifth I don't even want to tell you. But I also agree with what Mr Otero said that cases such as those in Sweden, which he mentioned, including Germany, France or the United Kingdom, show us the importance of maintaining this social support for the energy transition process through a high level of awareness, information on the benefits of it for society as a whole, transparency in the process and compensation schemes also for those segments of the population to which I referred, those who may suffer in some way all those changes that we face, and also logically, the economic sectors at risk. But in any case, on the positive side of the balance... Because, in spite of that perfect storm that we are being announced in Davos, I believe that one of our obligations also in moving to society is to say that among all and among all we are going to do it and we can do it. It is that in that drive to energy transition it also offers an opportunity to move forward not only on the socio-economic side, but also on the efficiency of an environmental energy governance model - I don't know if we can use that word - here in Euskadi. And this is achieved only through well-identified, defined and measurable objectives, with planning, a clear road map - as we say recently - a concrete definition of the role of the different institutions and actors in the process of implementation, follow-up, etc., including specific mandates, key agencies in the process, monitoring mechanisms, monitoring, review of planning and schemes to ensure that the objectives set are met. We have, on the one hand, vertical or multilevel governance of the process, which must be based on the identification of the roles of different administrations and entities in the development of a collaborative framework, which facilitates the raising of funds for investment, etc., etc. With vertical coordinating bodies or forums: Basque Government, out-of-town and especially districts and municipalities. But, as we also said, in the horizontal sphere, a commitment is absolutely necessary in which all actors - and we are talking about society in general - commit themselves to the objectives of the process and to the different strategies and plans, obviously including the Basque Sustainability Agenda or, what is the same, the Euskadi 2030 Agenda. Therefore, we say, bodies, coordination forums, multi-agents, cross-sectoral, vertical and horizontal should also be articulated. I therefore believe that the compromise amendment we have reached marks a compromise. I mean, we're in a moment already of... in which the process of the law itself is complicated for the Government to bring it already, let us say, with new contributions. But, well, I think there's still the commitment of the groups that we signed up to go this way. We say this clearly in point 2 of the transaction, that an assembly of citizen participation is configured in a participatory deliberative exercise to generate reflection, knowledge, that allows citizens to inform themselves, deliberate, generate consensus. And let that help us all, the representatives of our own citizens and those who today bear the responsibility to make decisions and implement them, to follow the best of the paths in this process that, as I always say, we are starting and will be much longer than we can expect today. But, in any case, since it is up to us to take these first steps in some way, because we congratulate ourselves again on having reached this consensus, because I think it is important that the steps we take, the pillars we set will be of utmost importance to those who come behind us... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Because I think it is important that the steps we take, the pillars we set will be of utmost importance to those who come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The band that has no corrections, Mistatha-Vox must not speak. Passing on the answers, together Podemos-Nozzer, the woman hates the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to be happy too. Not only because he has attained the medium of pleasure, but for that which is supposed to be. And that there is an immense agreement in this parliament about an important idea, namely, that to resist the climateal crisis we must produce special instruments of deliberate democracy; that is, that it is necessary to give the citizens the word, and that this contrivance, which is to produce this instrument, will be introduced into the law of the climatical crisis to come. In this sense, therefore, to all the groups who have signed joy and gratitude. And with this, I'd like to express astonishment too. The astonishment of the speech which the representative of the Popula Party has made. For because it has been considered as the perversion of democracy, it is a most extraordinary thing in the case of determining democracy to introduce an instrument into the case of political decisions. In addition to this, you praised it as the only instrument for democracy in four years for elections, which, as if it were the supreme and the only thing in the world, is to participate in a part of the community, because in the elections it is still lower and lower, because it is precisely this detachment towards the citizens and political institutions. So I've been struck by your remark, even because it's opposed to something you've been talking about... With something else. You both accept the first point, but not the second one. You're saying that there's no way of predicting an instrument in order to penetrate the decisions made in this forum when the government will adopt them. Then it seems to me a contradiction, and that's why I wanted to explain surprise. For I have already said that it will be a future time, for without admitting what remains to us here, it is what we have not determined; what will be the way in which this ascetic city decides to introduce itself into the actions of those who are next to adopt the executive decisions. And I think that's the harpsichord. Asanbleari begiratzen baldin badiogu, you are – aipatu da lehen – you are bilera izan ditu. It has held three training and debate meetings, and a report of 172 recommendations has been drawn up – and I have said so too. This assembly has appointed 12 people to come as spokespersons to present these resolutions to the Government and Congress of Deputies. As recommendations, the Climate Change Act does not oblige the Government or Congress to accept them, but they could reject them, or even, almost worse, they could pass them and then keep them in a drawer and not put them into action. That is the greatest of the fears that we can have and that certainly have the participants in the assembly. It is therefore also important to focus on the importance of establishing clear mechanisms for integrating proposals and conclusions. Examples are several. For example, we might think that the assembly present to the Basque Parliament its recommendations, and that they should be approved by a simple majority, for example, or we could even go further and say that, well, directly approve the recommendations that have more than, for example, 90% approval by the assembly. There are many ways to imagine how it could be, it is something that is a pending task. Well, again, thank you all. Popular parties. He said he'd vote for the first point, even though I don't understand too well what you said, but at last you'll agree with the first point, and you'll protect him. Thank you for that. And of course, EAJ, Socialist Party, EH Collector, thank you because you've really made it so easy to sign this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudados, Mrs. Larre, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u26	We will vote on the first point in your compromise that you have drawn up with the other groups, because we agree, it is clear. What happens is that it is true that I did not understand what I said with regard to the second point, because I did not say that what I did not like about the second point was the way in which the House would take into account the agreements that are being carried out in those citizens' assemblies that they want to create, but when I defend participation in another way, I want to say that the experts to whom you referred in your first speech, Mrs Gorrotxategi, because they are already consulted by the parties, and can contribute their experience, ideas and initiatives in the various appearances, so that the various parties, who are the depositaries of citizens' confidence through the vote, can present their amendments to the draft laws. Of course we believe in citizen participation, what we do not believe in is that assembly formula in which the loudest voice is the one that is heard. Therefore, we believe in citizen participation in another way... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...the one who raises the voice the most is the one who is heard. We therefore believe in citizen participation in another way; and we also believe that there is an already regulated form by which citizens can be heard in this House, and we do so regularly. Not only with private meetings with those citizens, or with those entities or with those experts, but we bring them here to appear and listen to them, and we take into account their contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Otero, over there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u28	Yeah. I'll make it short. I won't comment. It amuses me to see what the Popular Party looks like about the Assame, isn't it? I imagine people yelling, I don't know what you're doing or what they're like, but people don't scream at me, and they're right. And besides, we're talking about the underrated processes when we're talking about the climate of the population asanbalal. Well, I don't want to get involved. Alone, I want to remember that in the face of a climate challenge, and in the challenge of the maximum transformation, the contribution of all is necessary for a successful process. And I am very glad to-day that a decided democracy is somehow given a choice, and that we pay attention to it. And it seems important to me that we all, all of us, always go to ask for confidence or trust from the people, and because we ask them to trust us here. Beraz, nolabait ere, it's just that reciprocity. That the confidence we ask of the people, the people in general, can also be given through processes of deliberative democracy. And people also respond, and respond well; and the accumulated experience to what it shows is that people make reasonable proposals, people get involved, people get involved. And that's important to the cultural battle that we're going to have to make for the changes needed to face the climate and energy challenge. And I just wanted to end up with it. Thanking Mr. Grabaris, Mr. Alonso, and Mrs. And to the... and the parties which each represents, as it seems to me, Gragause has insisted on, that it is important to begin with this complicated subject rather than in a noisy manner, by means of the vast consensus. And I want to insist and thank you all. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u30	Thank you, ma'am. Under the seat, because the theme is this, the microphone, in the end, for those of us who have a little height, is a little uncomfortable. I'll be very brief. As Mr Grajales said in his speech, it is true that at the very last moment there was a suspicion of whether or not we could reach an agreement, or whether or not there was will. It is true that good, because these parliamentary tasks are sometimes last minute. But the important thing I believe and what will undoubtedly remain in the sitting paper is the result and the majority will of this House in relation to the citizens' assembly. I would therefore like to thank the various groups and their spokesmen, Mr Grajales of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mrs Gorrotxategi of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, and Mr Otero of EH Bildu, for their will, and the truth that the speed with which we have been able to reach the agreement; that the only thing that shows is how close we are from the very beginning. I can't make a small reference to Mrs. Larrea. How bad it feels to you the 21st century, really, believe me. I hadn't heard a long time ago that there wasn't such a bold defense of more nineteenth-century frames or models as you've done. But anyway I do not lose hope that in the end you will understand that this does not go from assembly movements, and believe me that I have lived one but another. And in mine there were voices, Mr. Otero. There were voices in mine, but this isn't about anything... Nothing like this. This is an issue that has to comply with all guarantees, it has to guarantee the freedom of those who participate and those who participate in it. And we're talking about deliberative democracy. Mr. Otero explained it very well. It is not only asking for trust, but showing that once we have it, we also trust them. And the most important key has also been pointed out by Mr Otero. If we really want to move forward with a profound cultural change, all we can do is do it by the hand of the citizenry. In this case, the political class or politicians do not have all the keys; and I believe it is essential to accompany ourselves with that citizenship, and to see that among all of us we are able to change that much-needed model. I am convinced, Mrs Larrea, that in the end you will also support this assembly when it has to be discussed in the Energy Transition and Climate Change Act. And I think it's a matter of staying informed and gradually understanding what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Geaters. It's yours, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u32	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. With your permission from here, because I'll be brief. I think I've already used my first shift to thank the others. But now I'd like to ask two favors. On one side I know it's my fault, it's not their fault. But I've been a bit older, and I've been up a bit on the floor lately, unfortunately I'm following the reactor, and please don't, when a legitimate proposition waits there for a year, when he's asleep, don't come to negotiate the last morning at eight o'clock. It's stress nibels and they go really high. In any case, it is to be rejoiced that we have attained this harmony in time-burning. It's nice to be grateful again. But what I really want to ask now is time, peace, and quiet, let's continue with the romances we've had before us. In a very short period, to accept the report of contamination, and, secondly, the climate change that will come to us at once, and the law of my neurogentic transition. That's the challenge we've got from now on, and let's hope we'll take the job with another ease... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... Around the law about the senior law. That's the challenge we've got from now on, and let's hope to carry the work with another ease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. End of discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors, and the Middle Amendment signed by Euzists. Point 1st, 1st Point and number two. We'll vote for point one. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u34	So it's accepted. 2nd We'll vote for the spot next. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 68; the contrary, 6; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u35	So the second point is accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Julian society of Ciudadans, presented to him by the prosecution and consent of the settlements of the precedents of the EAE. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Gordillo, your word is the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. A motion was put to the vote as a result of an inquiry into the system of control and approval of the liquidations of the budgets. It's not a new topic. Above all, the Members of the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs and Budgets are familiar with it. But we understood, and I personally understand, that this is a very important issue, which has curiously passed a little unnoticed in the plenary of this House, despite my personal effort to bring it here. And yet I believe that it is of fundamental importance, above all to ensure Parliament's position as the institution of government control and control of public expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, no one escapes the fact that parliaments arise and are born precisely for that: to control the expenditure control work of the various governments. In our parliamentary systems there is a process whereby the difference, for example, in the United States, which is certainly known in different ways, where a House approves the budget. Then there is a process of gradual implementation by the Government, and then there are liquidations that have two channels of control. They have three ways: one of internal control by the Government itself, from what would be an intervention; then there is another part of control which has also to do with the Court of Auditors; and then there is another part, or there was, another part of control, which was exercised by Parliament. In our system, in the case of Euskadi, as our rules have been saying until very recently, when budgetary clearances are already taking place, we had to bring such liquidations to Parliament - the Government had to bring them directly to Parliament - and Parliament, together with the reports of the Court of Auditors, etc., had to vote on them, approved by law. Here a number of things have happened. First of all, there has been one question: for a very long time, this obligation which was in the legislation, which was in the law, which was in our budgetary rules, which was to proceed precisely with the approval of the budgetary liquidation by means of a draft law, has been breached. A law passed in this Parliament by this plenary. Between 2005 and 2019, as you all know, there has been a build-up, as you all know, of all the budgetary settlements that have not come to Parliament, which have not been voted on by this Parliament. Why have we come to this situation? Many of you already know it, you know it. Well, there would certainly be a political issue here, perhaps an institutional one at some point. I estimate that, man, as some of these liquidations were from the Government, from the Government of Mr Ibarretxe, probably the next government that came would not want to get involved in this, let it pass. The other Government, the other governments, and Mr Urkullu who is coming, did not want to approve the previous ones or the previous ones. And already the ball was growing to such an extent that we had 15 years of unapproved budget settlements. Listen, you can change the system, in my opinion, change it, always guaranteeing control. Okay, okay, but there's a phrase that's repeated a lot in this House, which is cheating on the lonely. Nor do I want to abuse it, but, man, it is true that since Parliament realizes or, rather, the parliamentary majority realizes that it cannot or does not intend to comply with this rule, it changes, changes. How did this law change in second place? Well, you know him, too, ladies and gentlemen. We were discussing in a paper - also as part of the Committee on Economics, Finance and Budgets - the reform of the Court of Auditors, and all of a sudden the Budgets Act, which was practically co-approved, a provision was adopted which completely altered the system of budgetary clearance by this Parliament. What's done? Well, it's no longer done by bill. The Government no longer sends the documentation to Parliament, as documentation that comes directly from the Government, but what it does is that it sends it to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors then sends its documentation, its reports, together with those of the Government, to Parliament. And then Parliament is the one that, at this moment, in that case, has to decide how to deal with it. Here, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, you are fervent readers of the Bureau Agreements, you know... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... here, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, you are fervent readers of the Bureau Agreements, you know that there was also a situation for our group, which has no presence in the Bureau, because it was a bit strange. Others of you, who are present at the Bureau, may have information that I do not have, but what I saw are Bureau Agreements of 1 March, which made a proposal to process these liquidations, which were no longer to be adopted as a bill. All right, they were not going to be passed, to be dealt with as a bill, but at least there was a debate in committee and there was a committee opinion which was then voted on by the plenary. I was saying this: Article 1(7) of that motion for a resolution which we are aware of. Not for nothing, but because it was published in conjunction with the Bureau Agreements. In those recent Bureau agreements, he said that, however, that draft resolution had been rejected, rejected; he said so. "The Bureau rejected the proposal and agreed that the procedure for the liquidation of budgets, etc., etc., should be carried out in accordance with Rule 215. The agreement is adopted with the vote against the second vice president." That is what the short text on pages 26 and 27 of those Bureau Agreements says, I am simply reading it. Sure, what happened? The following week there are other Bureau Agreements, there are other Bureau Agreements of 8 March, in which a completely different system is already established, even further reducing the role of Parliament after the legislative reform. And what is done? For nothing, the information on the liquidations - and all the information on all these liquidations at the same time - as it reaches the groups in a space, man, relatively short of time - although this almost is almost secondary at the moment - that information passes to the Committee on Economics, Finance and Budgets, and there the groups can put forward motions for resolutions. With what legal value? The equivalent of a non-legislative proposal, a political resolution, of course. It already lacks any kind of legal effectiveness we could say. So there were two opposition groups there, our group and also the EH Bildu group, because they made a series of proposals that came out, etc. And, curiously, here the groups that support the Government did not even submit a proposal that said at least "hey, the liquidations are approved in the terms sent by the documentation." It is that it did not even get to present at least, what I know, a mere resolution that said "hey, we agree or support each other or Parliament supports, resolves favourably the liquidations sent by the government". This is the situation we are in. So, with regard to what had happened with the table agreements, we have to first of all that this debate was going to arrive here at the plenary of the House so that it could be discussed, and the groups, because it is above all the opposition groups that, in this case, could speak. And we have what has finally happened with these second agreements, and that is that this is finally dealt with in committee, and here, in the plenary of Parliament, nothing is voted on. Of course, in the face of this, because this is a debate that we have been having in a piecemeal way in different committees and at different times, in the face of this what groups that are not the Government, but that act as the Government, do they not? What do the groups that support the government say? They say, no, man, no, if you already have the liquidations here, Mr Gordillo, and so on, the government sends them, the reports of the Court of Auditors, etc. Yes, of course, of course we have the liquidations. But, man, it's been altered, let's just say, I almost don't even get into this process of putting the amendment this way at the last minute in the Budgets Act... To which, by the way, we voted against, because I identified that amendment, I said it here in the rostrum at the time, other groups abstained; we voted against it. Why do I say that this is a negative thing for Parliament? Look, ladies and gentlemen, because, in the end, the control work in Parliament, logically, is carried out by the opposition groups. So, detract, let's say, avoid, cut, amputate that competition that so far the opposition groups had at least sparked a debate. I insist, at least, to provoke a debate. It is clear that the groups supporting the Government, and this Government, because it has a very comfortable majority, an absolute majority, will win the votes, we know, ladies and gentlemen, that they will win the votes. But, hey, at least we're going to respect the debate, we're going to discuss it. No, no, Mr. Gordillo, we do it in commission. Man, of course, a difference between voting one thing and discussing it in committee, logically bringing it to plenary, not only because of its solemnity, but above all because of the process itself. Why do we think that the situation in which we are now, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly serious from the point of view of what would be an institutional balance, from the political point of view as well? Well, look, because the government has very large, very large budget amounts, in which Parliament ultimately has little opinion or a relatively small opinion and process and control tools. I am referring to the remnants, which I will not dwell on today, who already know my opinion. Apart from this, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that with the open inflation that we have here is a very significant increase in the collection by the outside parliaments, which will then also revert to the administration of the central government, to the general administration. Of course, we continue to refuse to deflate the IRPF, which continues to increase collection, etc., etc. And there are other revenues that were initially not foreseen, and there the Basque Government also has them. That is why the liquidations of these budgets were going to be particularly important. Then, in addition to this, thirdly, we also have important amounts that manage our autonomy, manage the Basque Government, which come from those received from the Government of Spain. By the way, some of us who are unable to implement also, such as aid to self-employed people and so on, are eventually returned to the central government. And above all, the European funds when they arrive, as Mr Lehendakari said, if they arrive, for obviously here there will be a series of money and, above all, a capacity of the Basque Government, let us say, to redo and carry on the important expenditure. Because, as you recall, ladies and gentlemen, the Budgets Act includes a number of elements, of provisions, which allow the Basque Government, let's say, to change, there is a sort of budgetary delegation, because it can change site items, assume funding that comes from Europe, allocate it to some items, and then those items also move site items as well. Without going through this Parliament, I insist, without going through this Parliament. Sure, what's the status of this one? Man, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the situation is that of Parliament's total devaluation. Man, if you're in government, because you're equally enchanted, just like these debates that I bring you because they're even boring, and so on. But, of course, it's a very serious matter. Because if the opposition, which is the one who actually exercises the function of control, no longer lacks... We won't win anymore, the opposition here won't win a few votes... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... if the opposition, which is really the one who exercises the function of control, no longer lacks, not of... we will no longer win, the opposition here will not win a few votes – I insist again –, we already know, but at least, to provoke the debate, for man, the truth is that the situation is not positive. I insist that in this question it is often said: 'no, no, but if you come to Parliament, Mr Gordillo, you can put all the amendments here, and we have no choice but to listen to you'. Man, less bad, for now, that at least there's this possibility. But that procedure that we had regulated and institutionalized, because it has jumped through the air. Here it is curious, because the councillor, whose presence is a pity that he is not here today, I think the debate would have interested him very, sure he is seeing him at this time at a distance, and I really believe that the argument that... The arguments that you usually say from the advisor's team, because the truth is that they are also very curious. The usual argument is: "man, Mr. Gordillo, let's see, you who like so much to compare us with other autonomous communities", "I?", "yes, yes, you." "Let's see. Other autonomous communities have also removed this procedure, and they also have other procedures that are more devalued than we can have." Of course, then, I look at you with disbelief, and I say: man, of course, it is good that you introduce me this criterion, I keep it for other debates, but let's go over the whole perspective a little bit. For starters, it is that other communities have different control mechanisms, for starters, small detail without importance. Secondly, the institutional structure in financial and tax matters of Euskadi is unique in Spain, it is that there is no other community that has this financial and tax structure, only Euskadi has it. And on the basis of this very particular institutional structure, it turns out that a control system was established which at least allowed for a debate in this Parliament with a lot of light and many stenographers – I do not mean that there is no light and stenographers in committee – but with a lot of light and many stenographers in this House. No other community has the funding system we have in Euskadi. In the case of Euskadi there is some particularity to the internal regime, the Canary Islands is involved in a differentiated tax system, and that, by the way, there is little talk, but, well, in substance, the tax system that Euskadi has is unique, and above all, the institutional regime. And above all, and this is what I'm going to do, no autonomous community has the custom – and this here begins the debate also about whether it's good or bad – of accumulating these budget surpluses that above, hey, you get chest: "I have failed the Budgets Act, but I have done it on purpose, why, because you hear, because well, I have failed, but well, because I was looking for it." Listen, because you wanted a reserve fund, let's regulate a reserve fund, if I am perfectly in favour of having a contingency fund that is regulated and that is planned. But, well, we accumulate a budget surplus that is certainly very high. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the equivalent of 10% of the budget of the Autonomous Community. This doesn't happen in any other autonomous community, this just happens here, it just happens here. For all these reasons, we understand, I personally understand that the situation as we had it before, that is, in which there is a debate that, in the end, must be approved by the plenary, listen, either through a bill, or even removing it from the law, but at least if it comes to Parliament's plenary, we understood that it is a way of maintaining at least the forms in which the control process is. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I also know how this vote will end, which is as usual, but at least I do ask the opposition groups to keep the control system more or less or at least to criticise a control system that comes from the groups that are currently supporting the government, because that will also happen, because I believe that a message from this Parliament and the opposition in favour of returning this competence and capacity to Parliament would be very positive. That's why I'm asking you to vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Given the persistent non-compliance with the rules of which successive governments of the Basque Country have demonstrated since Juan José Ibarretxe, which have always had little or no consequence, and given that the approval or non-approval of budgetary settlements have no legal impact because they cannot have an impact on the state of expenditure and income, we believe that the debate should also focus on other issues that are also raised in the explanatory statement of the initiative. Debates on the procedure of the Bureau of Parliament, on the request of this Executive to avoid any form of control outside its Governing Council, and on the role of the Basque Court of Auditors, to which so many known names of the parties in power have come to make use of those rotating doors of which we have previously spoken. As we have heard, the final decision on the procedure to be followed to monitor budgetary clearances, with quotation marks, was taken by the Bureau of the Basque Parliament. A Bureau which is beginning to look more like a right-wing limiting body than a guarantor of the proper functioning of the Basque Parliament. On the other hand, the proposing group puts on the table the Basque Government's claim to avoid any kind of control, a task for which they also have the complicity of the parties that support and form this Government. It is a mark of the house to decide positions unilaterally, so it is no wonder that they defend on a layer and sword that the budgetary liquidations arrive in this House by the back door and when no one looks, it is not going to be that we can all see that the investments promised are not made, that the Executive has the budget at his will, that whoever governs us seems more an authoritarian leader than a democratic and popular representative, respectful of the division of powers, and always open to external control. In the light of what Councillor Azpiazu put forward in his day in the sense that the approval or not of the budgetary liquidations had no other impact than the purely political one, it must be borne in mind that the corresponding reports provide a reliable picture of what the Executive has done with the money, in addition to everyone, of the fulfilment or not of commitments, of the ratio of revenue expenditure, of the progress of the investments committed. That is why everything seems to indicate that this government does not want any control, nor does it want that photograph to be public, and it chooses to change the rules of the game when it has less need, because it is already guaranteed that from here only what comes well to the PNV-PSOE coalition will come out. And I do not want to end without making a reference to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, an entity in which this government... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...only that which is good for the PNV-PSOE coalition will come out. And I do not want to end without making a reference to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, an entity to which this Basque Government delegates all responsibility for monitoring budgetary clearances. We cannot forget the case of José Luis Bilbao, from deputy general to president of the Court in a few hours. In Vox we understand that, in fact, the rules are to be complied with, always, and that if it is felt that they need to be improved, they are done through official channels and through established regulatory processes. You work differently, yes: the rules are to be met, but only when we are interested. That is why up to 15 settlements that should have been monitored by this Parliament did not even come to this House. So, Mr Gordillo, we will vote in favour of your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u40	Well, thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I, Mr Gordillo, am going to recognise something that I do not think you are going to recognise the rest of the speakers from the parliamentary groups represented here, and I do believe that the debate is relevant. I mean, I do think it is, in addition to being relevant, interesting. And I'll explain why. I believe that Parliament's control function is, without a doubt, fundamental, and is basically one of the functions especially of those we are opposed to; one of the priority functions of this Parliament, of this body and of ourselves. And I think that's something everyone here recognizes. In any case, with regard to this particular element, which is the debate on budgetary settlements, I believe that unless you had brought it here, or some other, I do not think that you had come to Parliament to discuss whether to deal with it. And in that sense, I do recognize its relevance. I believe that the monitoring of budgetary clearances is not only due to a political declaratory exercise, in the event that this is the case here in Parliament, but – and in the private enterprise itself – this is basically an exercise in identifying the inefficiencies of the organisation itself and of the administration of those breaches, in fact, which are contained in the budget law, in so far as if certain expenditure is established and these are not developed, it can therefore be due to many reasons, and I think it is appropriate to analyse what these reasons are. And, therefore, I do think it is important. And there is one element that you have not mentioned - which I believe is also important for reflection - and which is in keeping with the deadlines. Because, of course, it is true that we are talking here about budgetary clearances, that although the reports of the Euskadi Court of Auditors did exist and are public, that is to say, that there has been the possibility of monitoring the government's action in relation to the budget, it is true that the lack of debate capacity over time entails that then, in the adoption of the new government bills, there is a certain lack of feedback that the parliamentary groups themselves may have in relation to the liquidations themselves. And, well, as far as not coming to Parliament in the sense that it does not come to plenary but goes to a committee, well, it could be a formula. In fact, we are not fetishists in terms of going to the plenary as much as it has to do with the report of the Court of Auditors, which is true that it did not come, but in some way in the debate it did reflect on it, but rather the general account itself through the bill, which the Government had an obligation to present here. While we are not fetishists of this formula, because in other territories there are even specialized commissions on the subject of addressing this issue, what we do believe is that the product of what we are experiencing right now is due to a certain twist in which certain parliamentary groups and the Government itself were found, and that there was an obligation to bring here a bill that has not been brought in over basically two decades. What has been done is something that is indeed framed in what had to be done, and it was that the Basque Court of Auditors presented its report in committee until 2013, and that was the case. From there, that is not even the case: the Basque Court of Public Accounts does issue a report, but the President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts does not come to report on that report. And from there, then, we find ourselves in the need to give out and folder to all those liquidations, and, well, then, in the end what is done, then, in a certain way of cover... I know that the counselor here said that man, who comes into the bill, that if you read it carefully you will see it and observe it... Man, an alteration in the procedure of observation of the budgetary liquidations, put with footwear in the bill, because, yes, in my opinion, it is in a way to put it in cover. So, the fact that this is done, and in the end the formula through which all this is settled, is the Finance Committee, with resolutions from the different parliamentary groups, and it ended, then, well, it could have been the formula. And it can be the formula; legitimately, in fact, it has been chosen for it. We - I say - have been fetishists about having to necessarily come to the plenary, but we do believe that the way it has been closed, or I am putting it back on the subject, so it leaves a lot to be desired. In fact, we believe that the deadlines for the submission of budgetary liquidations of all bodies and institutions should be improved. In fact, the Spanish Court of Auditors has recently issued a resolution on how worrying it is that different institutions, especially those linked to the city, do not present in time and form the liquidations of the budgets because this in some way prevents a detailed reflection, as I said, of the inefficiencies and inefficiencies of those who hold the government, and therefore here too should be improved what is henceforth the presentation, let us say, of the liquidations, or at least of the... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and, therefore, here too, what is now the presentation, let us say, of the liquidations, or at least the process of discussion of the liquidations within the framework of the Basque Parliament, should be improved. That we do not have to wait 20 years for the Basque Court of Auditors to stop appearing here in relation to this matter, that we have to wait so many years since 2013 for the debate on this issue to come back here - it is worth the redundancy - debate on this issue. In fact, we, our parliamentary group, have tabled an amendment to the Rules of Procedure concerning the setting up of a budgetary office within the framework of the Basque Parliament itself, which also follows the same spirit. And it is to some control through this instrument, which also exists in other autonomous bodies, of what is the actual liquidation of the budget throughout the year. And also to accompany the parliamentary groups in the exercise of that same control of the budget. That is to say, that it is not only the responsibility of the parliamentary groups to examine carefully what liquidation is, but that there are even tools for the actual exercise of control by the parliamentary groups; and that this exercise of control also has tools on the part of Parliament itself through a budgetary office. In other words, I believe that the debate on how the budgetary liquidation of the various budgets has been dealt with over the last few decades is relevant. We believe that how this matter has been resolved through this year's bill has been what it has been: trying to save a tantrum that there were few ways to save, and then because it has been proposed to take, to take all the liquidations to commission and there to throw with it and point. I mean, from now on the formula is what it is. The general accounts are drawn from the Government to the Basque Court of Auditors. This, as a supervisory body and subordinate to the Basque Parliament, which we all know, issues a report and appears, and from there each group can make resolutions within the committee. Well, we think it's a proper formula. Of course, the fact that he came to the Basque Parliament for debate, not as much as a bill, but indeed what comes from that committee could be a formula of added control and, moreover, of interesting debate, which we believe is relevant. But what we believe is essential, in any case, is that the budgetary liquidation model that has now been established should be completed. That is to say, that what has been happening to us for the past two decades does not happen to us again. That is to say, it is now, all of us, but basically the Basque Government and the Court of Auditors, that they are doing what is right for them. That it is to come to this Parliament to report on the report, to present the general accounts, that I will be told that all this was done, but I say, since 2013 the Basque Court of Auditors has not appeared here to report on its report, and the bill that was binding on the Government to present a bill here in plenary has not been done all these years. Therefore, we in our parliamentary group urge that the control of such liquidations in time and form be effective. We believe that it is important for the different parliamentary groups, in terms of the development of the new budgets, to have elements and tools from the debate to put forward proposals. And, finally, that new formulas be established - as our parliamentary group has already established or intends to establish - through a budgetary office that gives control and, in time and form, also support the parliamentary groups in their exercise of oversight of the budget and budgetary liquidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u42	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. On 2 May, in the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs and Budgets, we discussed the motions for resolutions of the Basque-Citizens' Group. We have already explained that the Bureau of Parliament, on 8 March, agreed to the processing of the documentation of the budgetary clearances for the financial years 2005 to 2019. And the procedure for its adoption was established, both in the event that parliamentary groups presented motions for resolutions and if they decided not to submit them. It has been a constant for you, Mr Gordillo, in each debate, to suggest that, as regards the amendment of the procedure for the approval of budgetary clearances, there has been a lack of transparency, lack of parliamentary control and the Government has interfered with parliamentary work. When you know perfectly well that none of this is true. That, as evidenced by the facts I am going to expose, nothing you have commented on is true. Because there in November, specifically on November 2, 2021, the Councillor of Economics and Finance explained to us in the committee the draft budget law for this year 2022. And in that intervention he explained to us exhaustively the articulated text of the bill, the content of its five titles, 40 articles, 14 additional provisions, the transitional provision, the seven final provisions and the four annexes. And there is a record of that in the committee's record. It is in this explanation that Councillor Azpiazu points out that, in line with the new arrangements for the liquidation of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in accordance with the amendments provided for in the fourth and fifth final provisions, a transitional provision has been included so that during the financial year 22 the liquidation of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the financial years 2005 to 2019, which are still pending in accordance with the new procedure provided for in the draft budget law, will be carried out. We are also told in that committee that the procedure for budgetary clearance extends until 30 June the deadline for drawing up the documentation relating to the clearance of the general budgets, in order to facilitate the inclusion in that documentation of the accounting information of the entities subject to the general accounting plan. And it is also explained in that commission that in line with the regulation of the legal systems of our environment, it is no longer provided for the approval of the liquidation of the budgets by means of a bill, but that, once the related documentation has been prepared... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thus, in accordance with the new system for the approval of the liquidation of the General Budgets of Euskadi, the fifth final provision includes the amendment of Article 9.4 of the Law of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, in order to provide that this institution, after issuing its report, forwards the documentation relating to the liquidation, together with that report, to Parliament for consideration and corresponding processing. That is stated and recorded in the record of that Committee. The new procedure therefore fully respects the existing legislation, having issued the audit reports of the Basque Court of Public Accounts and having acted with complete transparency and without interference from the Executive as far as this House is concerned. The Basque Socialists believe that we must put an end to the anachronism of the debate on budgetary liquidations which do not correspond to the current or part of the previous parliamentary term. All liquidations and their corresponding audit reports of the Basque Court of Public Accounts have been submitted for both the general administration and its autonomous bodies, public bodies and public companies from 2005 to 2019. There's not a single report missing. The Basque Socialists believe that neither the motions for resolutions that you tabled, Mr Gordillo, which were debated and voted on 2 May in the Commission, nor your motion today in this plenary, bring any viable solution or practice to the debate on the liquidations of 15 years ago. They add no transparency, no respect or no respect for the law in force, they do not even give Parliament greater intervention; and less if we take into account that their group did not at any time promote in the Commission the debate on the audits carried out by the Basque Court of Public Accounts in those years from 2013, when we had the power of the parliamentary groups to request such appearances to the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Therefore, the complete transparency in the procedure and the practical impossibility of your proposal to resolve the issue we were dealing with is evident. In addition, you made the following question to the adviser on 6 May last: "Is it the Government's intention to prevent the control of liquidations?". And the question is answered politely by Councillor Azpiazu that the change approved reinforces the enhancement of the economic control of the Legislative to the Executive. A monitoring that is carried out through the legal action of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. So not only is control not prevented, but what is guaranteed is that control takes place. And the new procedure does not constitute any impediment, none, to control and approve budgetary clearances by the Basque Parliament, because such control is just as much as it was by the competent body - the Basque Court of Public Accounts - and with the timely pronouncements by Parliament and the parliamentary groups that we are in this House. The only thing that changes - and you know it - with the new regulatory framework is that it will no longer be necessary to draft a bill to approve the liquidation of the budgets. A law which, as the adviser said, on the other hand, was exclusively formal, of a strictly declarative nature, and whose approval or rejection only produced political effects, never legal, never accounting, since the statements of revenue and expenditure of the closure for each budget year could not be changed. And a key also interesting, exposed by the advisor in the response to his inquiry on 6 May, has to do with comparative law, recalling that, in the Spanish state, only in an autonomous community is the general account approved by law, which is the Foral Community of Navarre. Therefore, neither in the General Courts nor in the other legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities, nor even in which the People's Party governs, are the liquidations of the General Budgets approved by law. And you don't make up the rest of them, because there's no one who swallows it. And this, of course, does not prevent the control of such liquidations, because all the legal systems, in all are contemplated such control, including ours, that of Euskadi. The new procedure did not alter the content, timing or scope of the control of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Moreover, the autonomy of the Basque Parliament has always been preserved, as it could not otherwise be, without predetermining the procedure to be followed, neither in the consideration nor in the processing of the documentation relating to budgetary clearances, nor even in the report issued by the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Nor is it very logical that you would like to make the point, when you have tabled at the time and defended it in committee and in this House, in this plenary of Parliament, 24 amendments to the wording of the draft budget law for the financial year 2022, in none of them, in any of them concerned the legislative amendment to the procedure for the approval of budgetary clearances which is so serious, which now seems to you to be so serious, today and on the day that you spoke to Councilman Azpiazu. Look, the Socialists think that we have here today a really crooked debate, with spurious intentions, accusing the government and this Parliament of preventing the control and approval of budgetary settlements, because you know well that the truth of the new procedure is the maintenance of control, control and its rigour, transparency, respect for the existing legality and the role of this Basque Parliament. You are well aware that even in the comparative law, the new procedure and the legislative amendments that have taken place are endorsed, with the aim of simplifying, simplifying, the system of control and approval of budgetary clearances, updating the settlements that have not been approved to date, in accordance with the previous system. Nothing else for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word. [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, today, Mr. Gordillo puts the conversation on the table again about the transfer of budgets. This subject was added to the table on the committee itself in the course of the yearly litigation of 2005-2019. And even in writing he introduced his concern in the resolutions he proposed in the discussion. He introduced Mr. SubAzu to Mr.− as he has done, and his explanations have been involuntary to Mr. Gordillo. And today, we have this motion. The truth is, I was surprised by the motion. Well, I don't know if I was surprised by the body of the motion or the... Not the motion itself, but it is also true that this motion has been modified in its own right, that is, a point has disappeared. A point that the exposive part of the motion itself has a jundia and an importance that then when you go to the motion itself, because that point has disappeared. And to that Mr Gordillo referred again today. And I can refer to that, because Mr Gordillo has mentioned EH Bildu's position on that issue. It is true that there was a proposal from the House's senior counsel for a presidential resolution - which I have to say - that I personally liked and that - as you have said - there was a position of the second vice-president of the Bureau. The truth is that I have to say that after listening to some of the speakers who have spoken before me, I am not very clear what some other groups have done, because it has nothing to do with what you have said here today about that vote. But everyone will know what they have to answer to. It is true that - as you have rightly said - the Bureau's decision was to refer to rule 215 of the rules of procedure. And I have to tell you that this Member of Parliament liked the first option put on the table by the senior lawyer very much more. Why? Because it gave another option for debate. And that is probably also the consequence that you and this Member of Parliament were the only ones who put forward motions for resolutions in the 2005-2019 liquidations debate. That also in that debate we put on the table that it was not right, that it should not have been done so, that it seemed inappropriate to us, that it should have been done otherwise and that, well, because we saw ourselves engaged in that way of proceeding, we entered that lane and obviously because we followed the decided mechanics. But it's true that we liked another mechanics. 15 years of unapproved liquidations. True, but today I hear again about 2005-2009, and I refer to the motion and I don't know, but here we are talking about the future, right? I see. Because the past, that part of 2005-2019, that we didn't like any, that we all said it seemed wrong, that we should have done as we should have done... It's happened. It happened. Better or worse, it happened. For me there were things that shouldn't have been done like this, that I would have liked to have gone out differently? No doubt. Would I have liked the motions for resolutions to have been dealt with much more lovingly? No doubt. Because I am probably sure that many motions for resolutions have groups that could have adopted them by content, but by political content because they did not let them pass. I'm sure. Because I know the speakers in this House, but unfortunately, I did. I hope it will not be repeated again that we have to have 15 exercises at once, because obviously that is a capital error. And a mistake that can't be repeated again. But I understand that this motion is a vision for the future and I understand that knowing Mr Gordillo is a vision for the future. Well, I'm not going to get into the issue of the remaining revenue increases, European funds... Because I think that's another costal's flour. Or we are talking here about budgetary settlements, which I think have little to do with everything else. We can discuss everything else 1,000 times in this House, and I think you know that this Member of Parliament for the rest has discussed more than 1,001 times. And of the increases in income from the estates, I will not tell you how long this Member of Parliament has been talking about that and about other things about the taxation of this country. But, frankly, today I think the debate wasn't going that way, I think the debate wasn't going that way. And I insist, this group, EH Bildu, of course defends a way of dealing with budgetary settlements. We think it was a way because I don't know if more participatory, more transparent... I don't know. Choose the adjective that interests you. Of course, we understood that it was much better that he had come to a debate in Parliament, as indicated in that proposal by the senior lawyer, but unfortunately he did not go ahead. Other groups will have to say whether it seemed right or wrong. I am clear that it seemed good to me, it seemed very interesting to me, because it is true that - it has already been said - that in other Chambers the subject of the law has long been obsolete or left aside. Well, it might be a way to do it, or I might not. It is also true that passing a law that approves the liquidation of a budget when they can do absolutely nothing accounting for that budgetary liquidation, to me economically, that is to say with economic knowledge, does not bring much to me. It is true that politically it can show a position of the different groups on government management, but I think that the position of the different groups on government management is very often done, and I think it is healthy to do so. And I think it's our job, and this MP is doing it incessantly here and where she needs to be. But I insist, I think we have to focus a little – I'm not going to say the word – but focus a little the vision on what this motion was that you know you modified it, that you had two points. And the second point I withdraw is a question that is good for you to know, but we insist: control is important. It is very important for this House to monitor the action of the Government. Fundamental. Monitoring by this House of accounts and government liquidations is therefore essential. But we are aware of what has been decided by the Bureau of this House, which I insist has not been the Government, it has been the Bureau of this House that has also been said at some point, because, of course, there has been a process and it has been decided this way. I personally liked it better... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... the government, has been the Bureau of this House, and at some point it has been said, because, of course, there was a processing and it was decided so. Personally, I liked another way to process the liquidations, and that was also shown by my group. But the majority are the ones. I don't like it. We'll try another time to do it another way, and I think that's the way to do it. But that is not going to rob us at any time of the option and obligation we have as an opposition to constantly monitor the Government's action. And have no doubt that we will monitor the liquidation of all the financial years. Because the next one will arrive in brief dates, that of exercise 2021, probably next month we will already have it on the table, and have no doubt that we will look at it. And when the Court of Auditors comes to make the relevant explanations, it has no doubt that this group will present the relevant motions for resolutions. Let's see if the rest of the groups can apply the (...?)).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good noon, everyone. Well, what brings us to this camera today, Mr Gordillo? Well, to express that he doesn't like this new process of budget settlements, and that statement for the fourth time. That's what the initiative says. But what is the real purpose of the enterprise? Force the government to do something? No. A facility in the tools or procedures of the Government and the legislatures? No. To step forward in the Transparence? No. Is there anything you can do to help us with our control function? No. To-day, Mr. Gordillo, by this change of procedure, means that the labor of the legislatures cannot be performed, or the means of performing this work are diminished, and this is due to the inconveniences which the Government has placed. That is to say, by using arguments that are not true, and by the consequences which are not true. And in front of that we have reality. And I'll try to explain how the procedure to know reality has been accepted and how the teams worked. Lehenengo eta behin, how is this procedure modified? In a transparent way, in a law, in the Budget Act of 2022, adopted with 80% of the support of this House and without, as Mrs Corcuera said, those who opposed - Mr Gordillo, you included - amending the transitional provision governing this procedure. But there was neither a complaint, nor a suggestion, nor an amendment, nor a proposal on procedure, nor a mention in the budgetary debates. Well, yes, there was a mention of Mr Gordillo in the final debate talking, of course, about budget failure and criticizing the late dispatch of the liquidations. And he literally said: "They are going to send out the liquidations since 2009, since 2009, Mr Azpiazu, cloth, since 2009, the Court of Auditors. It's all right, all right. I applaud this decision. But, man, I think it took a little while." Therefore, although late, you applauded the decision to send the settlement since 2009. But at no time does he mention or criticize the modification of the procedure. I therefore confirm that there were no comments or complaints regarding the amendment of the procedure. Nothing. I'm on it. Is the new procedure common in our environment? Yeah. It's a regular procedure by comparative right. And I compare it because regardless of the institutional structure that we have here, we talk about monitoring and liquidating the budget and, therefore, I can compare. And in that comparison, this new procedure is used in the State and other autonomous communities - also those that you govern and have governed, Mr. Gordillo - and has not been called into question at any time, nor have you deduced from this that the Executive intended not to be controlled. More. Is the (...?) improved? institutions with this new procedure? Well, yeah, too. The change now being made makes a more coherent division between the tasks of the different institutions involved in the formation, approval of the General Account. It is the responsibility of the Government to draw up and approve the liquidation, ending with this procedure of its intervention in the procedure; of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, the examination and the report of such liquidation; and of the Basque Parliament, the debate and consideration of the liquidation, well, better said, of the report of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, in the manner in which the Chamber, within its competence, considers it to be regulated. Does the amendment have any legal impact? None. The only thing that changes is that it is no longer necessary to draft a bill. That, as the previous spokesmen have said, it was an exclusively formal and declarative law while the statements of revenue and expenditure of the closure of each budget year cannot be changed. Therefore, once the settlement has been completed and referred to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, it is already a final settlement. Therefore, as I said, this amendment to the procedure is of no legal relevance. And with this new procedure, has it matified, habitually by comparative law, without legal implications, with a more balanced division of tasks between institutions and modified in a transparent way, even so, have the rights of parliamentary groups been undermined with regard to access to information, to debate, to the presentation of motions for resolutions? No, no, All groups have had access to control reports, have had access to information and have been able to analyse it. In fact, until 2013 the Basque Court of Public Accounts has appeared in the Finance Committee of this Parliament. I already told you in the committee, the chairman could have done it, just as he did for the pre-2013 reports, could have requested the appearance provided for in the Rules of Procedure and could have requested it... could have requested the appearance provided for in the Regulation, without the presidency, in the hands of the People's Party, having requested it during the period 2014-2019. And, therefore, it is not that the president of the Basque Court of Auditors has not come to appear, it is that from 2014 he has not been called to appear... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... People's Party would have asked. And, therefore, it is not that the president of the Basque Court of Auditors has not come to appear, it is that from 2014 he has not been called to appear. Therefore, as you see, a procedure that does not impact or diminish our Government's control efforts. And, of course, Mr Soto, our group obviously defends this task of control. I respect this House absolutely. I also respect the Bureau's decisions on this review. But what is being debated here is not a matter of defending control or respect for this House, it is that here what Mr Gordillo indicates in the motion is that there is a weakness in our functions, which I do not share and therefore I do not support either. More. Is this new procedure preventing the control of liquidations? Well, obviously, neither. In our legal system - and also in those of our environment which previously compared by comparative law also occurs - the control of liquidations is envisaged, because the legislative amendments, which are alluded to, have not caused any alteration in the content, timing and scope of the control of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. In fact, it even enhances the value of the Court, of the report itself of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. A body of direct dependence and parliamentary orbit is enhanced - not from the Government's orbit, it is within our parliamentary orbit - and a report of a court of parliamentary orbit is enhanced. Therefore, you will already tell me where is the loss of parliamentary control. And to conclude, because today in this rostrum it has been insinuated - and more overly done in the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs that we have had this month - it has insinuated the government's lack of rigour in budgetary control, and in its day there has been talk of bad practices and irregularities. But I am sorry to tell you that, far from certain dreams, the control reports of the Basque Court of Public Accounts - which is what should generate the debate and not the formalisms that certain groups bring us today - these reports conclude that legality is fulfilled and express a faithful image of the assets and financial situation of the accounts, complying with the accounting regulatory framework. The opinion of the Basque Court of Auditors is strong. And I hope that beyond the recurrent and usual criticism of the Government by system, or beyond the fear of some responsibility - because the liquidations contain the word of the budget - I hope that no one will question the legality or the faithful image reflected in the Basque accounts. And even with all this battery of facts - which I believe are certainly relevant - Mr Gordillo, you insist on your disagreement with the procedure. What a good thing, let me continue, that you are in your right, but I would like to remind you, as the previous speakers have done to you, that the Bureau of Parliament already determined in March, on the basis of a proposal drawn up by the Advocate General, the procedure to be followed on this issue of liquidations - and from here on, our respect for the decisions of the Bureau - more rejected the proposal for reconsideration that you submitted. And that, by the way, for the next one, he invited him to present the writings as a Member of the People's Group and not as President of the Commission. But, as a result of the dissatisfaction generated by the Bureau's refusal to write, it repeats its occurrences in the Committee on Finance and translates them into motions for resolutions. Proposals that were again rejected by all groups, except for Podemos's abstention. He repeats it in an interpellation to the counselor. And not satisfied with the answers, he presents again today, we again debate today a motion which, as we see, does not bring anything about what has already been discussed and rejected in the Commission, what has been rejected by the same Bureau and what will again be rejected by this House today. Mr. Gordillo, you are tireless. We start with the budgets, with the lack of execution, we continue with the treasury remnants. Now what's the matter with us? Well, the liquidations. And so it will be September and again to begin. And it's not that it's not just, as you said, a boring debate, it's a repetitive debate. He does not care about our justifications, nor does he care about those of the Government. Its only interest is to generate obscurantist sensations, unnecessary confrontations, sterile debates that do not contribute or drive the Government's work or improve parliamentary control. And for all this, and because of its refusal to understand the arguments put forward by the adviser and those put forward by our parliamentary group, we will obviously vote against his initiative, a non-binding one, without any kind of amendment. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answering round, Mr. Gordillo. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans is the representative of the group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thanks to the speakers, for their comments on the writing and above all on the proposal that I was bringing to this Parliament. Here what gives me the feeling of many groups is that the usual happens a little bit. Mr. Soto, you're right, you're right. It hasn't made clear to me whether you're going to support the proposal I'm making here or not, has it? Because you've given me the reason for everything. You always do that, you give me the reason for everything, but then in the end you vote against it or something. I'm going to... we're going to support it. It is finally going to be done by amending the Rules of Procedure of this House. We will see when that Commission comes into operation. But we are going to support that, because, of course, we believe that a modern Parliament must have such instruments. With regard to the considerations that have been made to me by other groups, the debates are all welcome. Mrs Corcuera, I think she was in a bit of a different debate. Because, as I said, Mrs Corcuera reminded me of all that was the parliamentary procedure for the budgets, of course. But that's what I don't think I meant. What I am referring to above all is that it has been altered, changed, the process of, let us say, controlling what is the implementation of the budget. Not to the budget-making process as such. Mrs Corcuera tells me: "No, it is that the whole process has been done in compliance with the legislation in force". Man, I was just missing. What has been done is to change existing legislation. That is what has been done: the existing legislation has changed. Why has it been done? Because you can do it, because you can do it. That's the only explanation. Why did I do it? Because I could. And both Mrs Corcuera and Mrs Berrojalbiz - which I appreciate and appreciate very much - together with Mrs Berrojalbiz - and I also share a number of very interesting considerations with her, and that... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Together with Mrs Berrojalbiz, I say parliamentaryly, and also Mrs Berrojalbiz, because she makes a number of very interesting considerations here, which have to do with the famous audit of her own actions: "It is you when you were dealing with this, although you voted against it, because it is true that you voted against it, but you did not make an amendment to change it". Hey, nothing. We leave it to you to design, not only our strategy, but also the way in which we have to put forward amendments. Because I fixed that the other 1,500 that they presented were not, but I fixed that they were going to approve of it, weren't they? Man, please. I mean, on this subject I think frivolities apart... Man, we voted against it, and I also denounced it. And it also seemed to me something that did not seem to me proper to what parliamentary courtesy is. I am not accusing any group, but man, if we were discussing the amendment of the Court of Auditors, at the same time putting an amendment of the Court of Auditors Act aside from that amendment we were making, because man, I think that could have been avoided with a little more information, and above all with an attitude, let us say, a little more open. One of the deputies of the Courts, members of the Congress, who has most criticized the governments on duty for the lack of budget execution was one Azpiazu Uriarte, named Pedro María. That he used to criticize the Government a lot of these issues, and that he also got it at a certain time, that he gets it... along with others, that there would be a certain movement in Congress, and that there would be a liquidation office or more or less... a department that did analyse budgetary settlements to carry out such political control. That, by the way, you, like that audit, Mrs Berrojalbiz, because I understand that yes, I think that of course, it focuses on the fact that the liquidations are faithful reflection, heritage, etc., etc. No, if that's all right with me. And you've also made some objection to me that the lady... I don't know if it was Mrs Pinedo, or perhaps it was also Mrs Corcuera: "It's that it's legal issues, it doesn't change anything, passing a law, not passing a law." Yes, but man, excuse me for bringing political issues to this House. I understand that the conduct of a debate, such as budgetary liquidations, is very important, because it really shows how the Government has implemented the budget, which is the basis of its political activity. And that's why we understood what we had to do. And that is why we also understand that a step is being taken back with this new procedure. What can Parliament do at the table? Of course you can. It could have established another procedure also with the legal basis that gave it to such a legislative amendment; it did not. He chose for this, in solutions that are quite curious, and that also say a lot about the famous doctrine of his own acts. But in conclusion, what I would like to point out, above all, thank all the spokespersons of all the groups, those who support the Government, I understand that they are not going to support us; Mrs Berrojalbiz has said so. Mrs Corcuera has not said this, but I understand that she will not support this measure either. But, well, anyway, time passes, time passes, and at some point you will remember also that at this time or these days, when we have discussed this issue, these kinds of arguments will probably come out again, but this time they will be pronounced by people of the opposition. It's a shame we lost this system. We will continue to present control initiatives logically, and with this I conclude. But the truth is that making this change the way it has been, I believe it does affect what Parliament's work is, and specifically in the opposition as an element of control of government policy. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mist must not speak. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u50	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr Gordillo, as far as I tend to say that we agree on everything, I think we should review the interventions of both of them, because I do not think that it is usually not the case. We don't usually agree. In any case, I do appreciate - and you too have done so more than once, but it is not a question of this intervention - certain points, for they have led to debate on your part, or in your case, on mine. In any case, going to the point of substance. Yes, the change is true that it has been public, that no one can deny it, and it is true that the measure that has been public has been transparent. Because it was given by an amendment to the Budget Bill. And, on the other hand, it has then been preceded by a decision by the Bureau, and to the extent that that is so, obviously the decision has been public and has been transparent. What I do not think can be denied is that this amendment has basically come to try to save in some way a mischief of the last 20 years. I mean, I understand that you don't want to do an exercise in talking about what's happened in the last 20 years. But what I think is true is that the reason why we do not want to deal here with budgetary liquidation through a bill, or it said that in the last 20 years it was chosen why that formula was not the right or the relevant one, and now it has changed. I mean, I think it's interesting to analyze how we've come to this point. In any case, what has indeed been done by different parliamentary groups here - some who support the Government, as well as those who do not support it - either in the budgetary phase, take the amendment; or either in the decision taken by the Bureau, accept the amendment. I mean... I say this because I do not blame myself for the assumption of the amendment only to one group, because in the budgetary phase it has also been assumed in this way by others. It's true that what we should be doing right now is talking from here on out is "what." And if our group took the amendment is basically because through the bill we believe it is not the way to deal with this issue. You address it in the first of your points in the original initiative. That is why we could not vote in favour of this particular point, because we believe that a bill as such, because it is true that it has proved over the past 20 years and because of the amendment, that it does not seem to be the most appropriate formula. What we do believe to be relevant is a degree of control, as in other places, through comparative law, you can see what is being done. And it is that in specialized committees, in this case in the Committee on Finance and Budgets, the report is analysed, in this case by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which is indeed the highest body for monitoring the economic activity of the Government. And that is in the framework where the considerations of the parliamentary groups can be established or formulated if they consider that... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the economic activity of the Government. And that is in the framework where the considerations of the parliamentary groups can be established or formulated if they feel that this should be done. And we believe that this is a formula that, in the end, is perfectly homologable to many other institutional areas. What could have been added if, in addition to that, the decision to assume what had been dealt with in the committee was subsequently ratified in plenary? Yeah, definitely. It could have been, and the original counsel's initiative was this. You formulate that in your second point. We, at the Bureau, trying to save the situation - although we were not really needed in the arithmetic sum of the Bureau -, trying to basically kick ahead in the last 20 years of liquidation processing, assume that through the committee it was the formula that would save the situation. And right now I think that what we should try to observe, because it is true that in the end here we come into considerations that are purely bureaucratic, I think that what we should try to do is a reflection that the debates and the considerations about the liquidations are done in time. It is true that the reports are made in time and are issued in time, but the discussions on liquidations within the parliamentary framework have not been established or debated in time. So, on this I think it is on what we should deepen. And I've already said that in my first speech. We also believe that with regard to new forms of control and control support for parliamentary groups, what is the exercise of the Government as it is - and I know that I insist a lot on this - the budgetary office, which you have said is going to be well supported, we believe that in any case that can be the way forward. In other words, try to articulate new mechanisms that allow for control and control, or support for the exercise of control and control by parliamentary groups through such formulas. And let us not - let us say - lose ourselves in a debate, which, while pertinent and interesting, has opened up the gap to talk about budgetary liquidations, marred the matter and, above all, focused on the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Next, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u52	Yes, thank you, President. Well, Mr Gordillo, from the point of view that we have professed, that it is mutual, look, you have repeated all your speech, all that you did on the occasion of the question to Councillor Azpiazu last 6 May; you have even told us again to the parliamentary groups what resolutions we must present to the committee. I would ask you a little respect, because we have never made any appeal to you to make any kind of initiative and above all the content of those initiatives. So I would ask you for the same respect that we have for your group, at least with the Basque Socialist parliamentary group. You say, "At the last minute the legislative amendment is introduced." It's not true, it's not true. The amendment was introduced with the bill, and was explained in November. Let's see, uh, if it's clear to us. In November, the bill was explained. What do you mean at the last minute? That's not true. And, therefore, throughout the process of processing budgets there has been the article and the provision. Of course he's been there, only you've escaped. And since you can't recognize that, then, we blame others, and it's not true. There has been transparency throughout the process, absolute transparency. There has not been a single interference of the executive before this legislature; not a single one. You can't go that way. Respect this House a little more. Because, saying things that aren't true, you don't go on the road, do you? There's no progress on the road. Because we are already starting from a base that is not true, and therefore we are not going to reach any agreement and any possibility of progress together. You say... He has told us a number of approaches, and, look, in past legislatures, with parliamentary majority on the part of the opposition, no group, no group or the whole opposition together with that majority came up with bringing this plenary or urging the government to bring any of the liquidations from 2005 to 2019. Not one. And I assure you the opposition had a majority. Therefore, it is also a fact to take into account. And then, man, look, come to us with this of the institutional structure of Euskadi is what really allows us to have a rule, a procedure different from that of law compared to other autonomous communities, or that even so many remnants that we have provoke us this kind of situations, really... Really... It's just, he repeated it. It's just, it can't be. But what arguments do we have for the speakers in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy? You know it's not true, just that, instead of removing the patita, then, we keep putting it in, because now it's the Basque institutional architecture's fault. But of what? Of what? How is this institutional architecture reflected in the bills that have not been brought in, with even parliamentary majorities on the part of the opposition to the plenary of this House in a bill? How do you articulate that? Where's it coming from? I think he really lacked arguments, he lacked the desire to innovate. You do it perfectly, from an inquiry to a motion, sometimes we are often pleasantly surprised by new developments. And in this case, then, I think you've missed it all, really. Because to reiterate and reiterate that the debate has to be the remnants again, once again the rise in taxes, because we do not execute the Economic Concert, because we do not listen to the budget executions, because... It is the same debate as the amendment to the whole and the partial amendments to the budgets, and it is wrong. Wrong that wrong. And that's fallen. It has been evidenced with votes, with debates in committee, in this plenary, on several occasions, on the occasion of the budgets, in exclusive debates with motions that you have brought... Therefore, I am not worth your arguments; they are not weighty. It serves you to reiterate those obsessions that you have as a parliamentary group of the People's Party against a budget that has been approved by a majority. But from there, nothing... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...to reiterate those obsessions that they have as a parliamentary group of the People's Party against a budget that has been approved by a majority. But from there, nothing, there's nothing, it's all a bluff, and it's a smokescreen, and you know it. So, and now I'm telling you, we're going to reject your initiative just like... As we reject your motions for resolutions in committee. But are you going to respect what is coming out of the vote today on this initiative, or are we going to have this debate again sometime? Are you going to respect democratically the decisions that are being taken in this House in the exercise of the functions of all parliamentarians or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. EH Collect must not speak. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I begin as I have finished my first speech, and also with all our esteem, Mr Gordillo, showing our rejection of your initiative without any kind of untimely amendment, we have, repeatative in content and without any reasoning, justification or motivation, and this, neither now nor at the time of the interpellation. Being you I have seen, the truth, that little innovative, and with little legal argument; being you jurist and not being I auditor. I'm telling you from this point of view. I have already indicated to you in my first round that we are dealing with a new procedure that has been approved by law, by the Budget Act of 2022, in a transparent manner, a normal procedure in comparative law, without legal relevance, with a more balanced division of tasks between the institutions. And the most important thing to reduce their arguments is that without any loss in the functions of either control or control at parliamentary level. After the temporary change of laws and regulations made by this GIRL, and by the GRIL, it becomes simplified, it is simplified, it is a law to state the budgets and to accept them. And the settlements that have never been accepted until now are updated. That's what you did, and let's not play tricks or get mixed up. They don't even change the work of the court, you know. So don't confuse us with the agreement we've made to change the court's law. You know that with the changes that have been made, and the rules we have, we can do our functions exactly the same. That it's the only difference that it's passing through the entire plenoe to make a settlement on the committee. And that's what I think is the most painful thing here because we know that our controls are not, we've seen, because our controls don't diminish. As I was saying, you can exercise with the current rules, and we can all exercise the function of controlling the liquidations with absolute precision; therefore, neither a hint of obscurantism nor a lack of transparency, we just need to work a little more on the control reports of the Basque Court of Auditors, as we did some parliamentary groups in the committee presenting motions for resolutions. We could like it more or more, as Mrs Pinedo commented, and there I added to what was said by EH Bildu's spokesperson. I know that... Mr Gordillo, and because of your little innovation in today's debate, I know that it is difficult to generate content in this forum, even more so when you have one in front of a transparent government, which is what you are insinuating by little transparency in this debate. I remind you, yesterday preparing for the debate, I was left to observe what transparency, what level of transparency this government had, and I met with (?) transparency by Irekia Gardena, Euskadi Gardena, awarded as best open government project. A responsive Government, a rigorous and well-managed Government. This is demonstrated by the outstanding rating given to this Government. And a government whose accounts comply, as we are talking about today, complies with the law and reflects the image. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After discussion, we'll put the original text of Mr. Gordillo Peérez's motion to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the 10th; the contrary, 41; the Abstations, 27; the white, and the white;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u56	So, not allowed original text. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciation of the other Bill of Parliamentary Groups, a specialized plan to promote the investigation and innovation of social services. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Madame of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, chief physician, good day to all. To create new conditions of preparation for the future, to have tools to prevent the roots in our hands, to create the greatest amount of juice for all the tools we can have in our hands, and to-day we have brought an initiative which seeks to recover the precursities which this people has had in the field of the most beautiful society. What we propose today is a culture for research and innovation, which is widely diffused and prized in other areas, especially in the technological world, and the culture of innovation so necessary and necessary in the business world, in order to spread from society to the field of social services, to promote the care and cohesion of individuals. And, as it happens in other areas, [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... In order to spread it in order to encourage people's care and cohesion of society. And, as is the case in other parts, the study and innovation of social services may, in some measure, be able to raise them up in a higher degree, and act upon a particular plan. That is what we propose to-day: to create a specialized plan in order to promote social investigation and innovation. Why do we plan it? Because we live in more and more complex societies. Things in the world are changing at a high rate, and we've had a terrible change in the last two years. And I believe that by the fact that we are all to agree, the events which have upset the lives of the people, have proved the ability to answer the wants and wants of the people in public institutions; and that they have proved the propriety of the answers which are commonly given by public institutions. I think it's all a little out of the way. All these changes, all these changes which have taken place in life, have had their influence even in the sphere of social services. In this case, a violent influence can be said. And in a great degree it may be said that all that has happened have upset our knowledge of social service, our manner of answering, our ability to answer questions in this respect. And this has been seen in retreats, domestic service, attending homes, homeless, in a thousand matters. It's not just something that happened to us. All the systems of social service have been tensed by these events during the past two years, though it must be said that ours have suffered particularly. The poor and limited ability to respond to citizen care and protection. And as I said before to the chief physician of the Artolarians, for example, that life which we lived in the houses has not yet been changed by a comma in the prayer of the system, no innovation has been introduced into it. While experts insist on the necessity of the change of pattern, we do not yet know how this revision of the decree will not be done; He's not here. There is no reorganization or innovation proposed, for instance, in domestic services. Nor is it necessary to regulate domestic service by decree or to determine its identity, even though it is a question of pendiciency behind us. There's been an attempt to make a newser, for instance, of homeless people. It's done by the third sector. There's been an effort. I wouldn't think it was a project or a innovation process or an attempt to give a new response. But that's what's left to do, in an attempt. What the result may be positive, but what has not continued is that the process following a process of innovation, even though it may have been a passive activity or activity, and is not a consequence of a process following the processes in the development area. Again, the cost and limits of the system of social services are exposed, and the consequences are violent, and have been for the public, especially for the basest ones, for those who need care and protection, or for those who are in danger of public neglect. I dare say that in this case also a breach of public life and politics has been given, and that, in a great measure, we have not been able to answer the wants of the citizens during the last two years. And that makes us fragile, makes us vulnerable; and, as it is not a bad thing, I dare say it requires a reflection about the burnings of the mass of protection and care. In this sense, it is clear that the present and future tendencies, and the consequences of which, − the crisis of life, the antiquity of society, poverty, and social inequality, the late age of young men's education, appearances such as the segregation, the migratory flux, the ability to provide for protection and for the support of the community, will continue in the future. One thing that we often repeat, both pandemies and ecological and digital transitions, without forgetting, will change the economy and the ways of life, or must inevitably change them. And we believe that these changes must be based on mutual care and social justice. The other day, the discussion about demography, we said that life is now about to build new individual and collective careers, right? And as we have often repeated, that what we do now and not do can condition a whole decade. And from this care I think we ought to plan public policies, as well as social services. In this context, and in front of the big shootings, the Basque Country is extremely important to the United States, even in this area, to promote the culture of modern society. In the field of social services, in the light of innovation and creativity, the means of proposing powerful solutions. In fine, interposition of innovations in a community, in persons and institutions, in the conduct of relations, in the management of resources, and in the exchange of values between one another, with the object of increasing society in wealth. The Basque Country is, as it were, a useful tool for the cohesion of society and social transformation, and a powerful instrument which enables new and efficient answers to more and more complex challenges and wants. The new methods of co-working and taking part in all the agents... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... A powerful tool that allows the offer of new, more efficient responses. A tool which enables us to provide local responses in the new challenges by means of the aid of all the agents. If we don't want to lose a train, at least we can't afford to lose a vital instrument for us. And in this sense, in our opinion, there must be a fundamental element of social innovation in the definition of public policies in the community. But if the importance given to the innovation of society be greater and greater, though it be more and more, in general, the marks of developing this instrument in public politics are still very little. The consensus, very different projects and enterprises, are united in the practice of innovation, they mingle with other concepts, they need to clear the financial roads, to adapt them with sufficient skill, we need not have the methods of innovation... It's just that when you're in the habit of helping you out on social business, you know, you know, you know, you know, you've got some new projects that you're interested in, you know? But, to say the truth, there almost any new project comes in, but there is no prospect of a modern process, and no definite frame is given. Yeah? And then, well, they usually have a small funding from −, which is very large and difficult to start a real investigation and innovation in the frame they offer. And as I have already alluded to it, it may also be, that interesting experiences, new practices, but, as I have already said − are very limited beings, because they are not modern processes, are concrete and modern experiences, but are not the initiatives placed on that frame of innovation in society. It becomes essential for all this to put a little light into the line of what several of our agents have ordered for us, and to share in it certain fundamental concepts, which are the agents and institutions employed in reforming society in the sphere of social services. For instance, the Navarre Government has done it. He has made a guide to the innovation of social services, which is very interesting, which is very interesting, and in which they have solved several concepts, with the agents who work in the field, with many professional and active agents who are innovating it, to see what is to be found in the light of a renewal of certain romances before us? And for example, there's a section where we've been studying, how can new society take advantage of the 20-30 of the Agenda. Or how new society can be grafted into pretty jobs. Or how new society can be grafted when it is time to answer the hinges which result in migration streams. (Locking? They did all that. And we think that when we are all so clear we have great challenges at the door, there is a good moment to improve the cohesion of society, and the quality of life for the welfare of the community, in order to give us a step in this area too. And a special plan of this field to light up those frames and make a new bet on the welfare of society, a solid and a light. And that's what we're looking for today, huh? In a certain way, the intelligence of this department, the cohesion of society, and the great opportunity for favorable welfare and care of the citizens, is a great nation of intelligence and intelligence. And further, it must be remembered that the same law of EAE, 12/2008 on social services in the chapter of the administration of the peoples, relates to the duties which in article 40th, it represents to the scope of the rights of the rights to which they are concerned, the attention, the improvement, the novelty, and study of social services. So I think it's in the midst of what's been confessed to her. And what we were asking for today is simple. I told Mr. Simple, very simple, very moderate, very far away, then, in six months' time, what we were asking for, bring a special plan to promote the investigation and innovation of social services. Take a step, jump. That's what we asked for, and what we asked was that we could do together with guaranteeing that we could take part in the world's operating societies and innovations. And then, of course, to guarantee the economic growth of this. That's what we asked for, measured, and I think it may be of high value than a simple proposition. And what happened? Because with the teams we hold the government here, there hasn't been an agreement, it hasn't been possible. And I don't think it's possible that there's a deal because we read the moment in very different ways. And so I told Mr. Faraway too, didn't I? We believe that the decisions we make now, and that what we do not take, will determine the future. And we believe that we must prepare ourselves to answer the hinges we have in hand, and prepare for us the tools which are the strongest. And what you're planning on is stay in the land forever. Encrease the innovation, but just like you do. I don't say you don't do that, do you? I won't say that. Vamos a ver, inquiry, and innovation have no marks peculiar to social services. And what we were planning was that precurity that is so often cited, isn't it? To make an effort to recover that precursion which we have been in the best society. And you have to make that effort from today. You know what happens to bad students leaving things behind, don't you? And this is happening to us in this area, sadly, often, isn't it? The flag of antiquity is brought, the flag of precedence is broken... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... It's a pity, often, isn't it? The flag of antiquity is brought, the flag of precedency is broken. But if this precursor is not to be cared for, they are left behind. And here today it was he who planned: Do we just jump or don't we? Or are we still on our own vacations? They are always exposed to danger; that you should be kept in your place, and that you should not be able to go any further, they would lead you back. And that's what you plan here, isn't it? I'm not sure today's initiative will come out. But I know this initiative will come. That he will come, because he is an agent, the need for innovation in this field.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u59	Yeah. Thank you, President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Today we bring... The proposed group EH Bildu brings us an issue of interest, especially because we live in a changing, globalised society, and how to respond to the changes and needs that arise, changing needs, by the way, in our society is to innovate, to be able to innovate, to respond to those changes, we would say that it is something innate to our own society. It must be said that these ideas, the new projects, of course, do not come out spontaneously at all and do not come out overnight. And that every innovative process is due to planning. We have an idea, we have to see if this idea is viable, we have to put it into action, we have to test it, we have to test it, we have to put it into operation, and then, obviously, we have to implement it also according to a budget allocation or also according to certain economic appropriations. Therefore, we can say and point out that implicitly an innovative process is a process... implicitly to an innovative process is something that is sustainable over time, that is durable, that is prolonged over time, because what it is about is that improvements are not questions of a short space of time, but they last, and especially if they are effective, effective and have benefits in the specific field they are practiced. When we talk about innovation in the field of social services, we talk about social innovation. And today, we have a proposition about our planning to promote social research and innovation. It is true that we have submitted a correction to this proposition, and demand a plan, but the time appointed for the government is longer, nine months. And basic... Or in the original proposal, it's six months. To answer our needs in society, well, it is proper to promote innovation and investigation, and also to give an answer to societies and circumstances which arise. In the last two years the weaknesses, the privations, and the troubles of society have been exposed. For this reason we may safely say that there is a wide range of innovation in the area of social services. That's why, just as I'm talking about − first, we're asking the Eusko MUM to promote a specific plan about research and innovation in nine months' time. As I said, the social sphere is a proclive area for research and innovation, and above all because there is a broad field of action in relation to (...?) needs in the socio-health field, in the area of care, in children, gender-based violence, with vulnerable populations, in employment, in the economy, in education, in the social economy, in protected employment, in addictions. And above all also because after two years of pandemic, gaps or deficits have also been discovered in the social sphere itself in order to respond to many of the needs that may have arisen. We therefore consider it appropriate to draw up a plan of these characteristics. But it is true that we have thought that the same six months is a short space of time and that it would also be desirable for the Government to make a plan in the field of innovation and research because it was well done, with also a diagnosis of the situation, with lines of action, with a budget, with a timetable of implementation. And also because we understand that the social sphere is a broad one, that is, that is, that it is a cross-cutting one. I have just referred to many areas that have to do with social matters. And if we look at the composition of the Basque Government, they affect quite a lot of departments, not to mention all departments. Apart from the mention that has been made of a specific plan in Navarre, I have also been diving and searching and I find it very interesting the experience that some municipalities have. In this sense, the Malaga City Council itself already in 2019 developed an Innovation Plan, where empowerment, learning and participation are three basic ingredients of this plan. And, as I said, the characteristics are sustainability over time, transfer, impact, achieving results, because if we innovate and fail to achieve results, obviously... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...plan, isn't it? And as I said, the characteristics are sustainability over time, transfer, impact; achieving results. Because if we innovated and didn't achieve results, obviously, we didn't get anything. And one of the issues linked to a plan of these characteristics - which I believe it contains, moreover expressly, as I say, this Plan of the City of Malaga - is that a plan in this field of innovation and research undoubtedly contributes to cultural changes in the organizations themselves. And this point I think can be very interesting, and an issue to be explored and encouraged, as well as encouraging the participation of the different levels of the administration itself or of different institutional levels in projects, in projects that in turn echo one (idea?) and implement it in the respective fields. And then, what I think is also fundamental – which is also reflected in this plan – is to create spaces that promote innovation. It is therefore appropriate for us to create a plan. It is true that we would have agreed to give the Basque Government a longer term. And in that sense, the compromise amendment tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu groups talks about the plan, but it talks about other issues. We're not going to oppose it. And the amendment put forward by the Government is more continuous. The amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government does not contain the explicit mention of the Plan. He talks about innovative, transformative programs, which may be fine too, but, in our view, it remains a little short. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u61	Good morning, everyone. Chief department, congressmans. We had never before been so aware of our fragility or interdependence. Our intended and overvalued autonomy, modern autonomy, so often misunderstood as self-sufficiency, seems not enough for the maintenance of the most basic thing that is to live. The Basque system of social services together with health and education are the three main pillars on which good living and well-being are based, and this is an aspiration that must be possible and real for all the people we live in Euskadi. For my group, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, these three pillars underpin the longing and often claimed in this Basque Parliament care system. Today, with this initiative proposed by the group Euskal Herria Bildu, we say yes, it is necessary to rethink from research and from innovation the whole welfare system and public social policies. The capitalist economy is wreaking havoc on the employment, residential and economic situation of many sectors of our population, and inequalities are being accentuated. There is a very important social polarization as a result - and also very alarming - of the extreme right-wing boom. At the same time, we live in our territories the climate emergency, and in our lives we live the crisis of care and unwanted loneliness. Moreover, we have not just overcome this model of compact and heteropatriarchal family, and ethnically and culturally homogeneous community. And the public authorities are - and we are - called to greater strategic intelligence, evidence-based policy, and innovation capacity commensurate with the challenges ahead. And it is necessary to take one more step. We must transcend those hegemonic and watertight systems. And in liquid social contexts, as the philosopher Bauman said, people have already managed to get rid of the patterns and structures of other times. And now we are at a time when each person creates our own mold to make our decisions about our way of life. And we say yes, that it is necessary to investigate and innovate to face all these challenges; all these challenges of the liquid society that we have and all the challenges that social services have in Euskadi. Because reality tells us that social services in Euskadi have been suffering a worrying deterioration in themselves, the result of privatization, the result of failures in effective information and accessibility and other factors that have already emerged in the evaluation of the plan presented last year. Look, the covid scene left almost half a million Basques and Basques with difficulties facing their lives. More than 70,000 people were left out of the social protection system - even if they needed it - and almost a quarter of those receiving benefits of some kind do not leave poverty. There are shortcomings in the implementation of the Social Services Act, which leaves many people who have no way to claim unprotected. Furthermore, I should like to point out today the situation of dependent persons, persons with mental health problems, the increase in social exclusion in young people, the figures relating to the care of women in situations of violence, and in particular the situation of immigrant children and young people without family references. All this forces us to rethink; it forces us to rethink our own portfolio, the map of social services. Adding to the picture of the pandemic, it leaves us... Besides, what about older people? And what about services aimed at supporting home care? Investing the pyramid of attention cannot be at the expense of a deterioration of the public and trapping the lonely, urging to continue doing what is being done, as seen in the amendment of the Basque Socialist and Nationalist Group. In short, I believe that we are faced with a crossroads in our welfare state, which does not seem to lead to quantitative growth in public investment and social rights. And that is why we believe that, as a matter of urgency, we need to explore and move towards important innovations in social matters. And Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita already wore it on his election program when we arrived... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... to explore and move towards important innovations in the social field. And Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita already wore it on his election program when we arrived in this House. On the one hand, we asked, we said that we saw the need for a new Basque system of social services, which is characterized by being a guarantor and subjective right for citizens. All people, all rights; let us say it continually. And we also said in our electoral program, and we defended, to bet on the improvement, innovation and evaluation of social services, with the contrast and contribution of the entities of the third sector and of the university, which is where it is investigated. And we even carried the creation, we carried in our programme the creation of an institute of innovation and research in social services, which we do not include in this amendment because we do not distort and focus on another initiative as concrete as this. And this initiative, in which a plan is proposed at a specific time, is very relevant. We have reached a compromise agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu, incorporating this much-needed gender perspective into this plan in all public policies and in all the tools we design. In addition, the cross-cutting approach, and the human rights approach, which we also always include in a cross-cutting way. The Community's participatory perspective, and also the fact that they have sufficient financial resources to implement it. And to add that it seems to me to be a turning point that the Basque Nationalists and Socialists group could not have been able to reach agreement on this initiative after having held a full monograph on the demographic challenge, which also drew attention to, focused on improving the care and services that provide them, which shows us that sometimes the biggest problem is not to agree on texts but to have a real political will, to make real initiatives by setting time limits. I hope, in this legislature, that we will be able to make a qualitative leap in the capacity of the public governance system for research and innovation in social policies. And I am convinced that this will not only benefit the present and future generations in our country, but will make Euskadi one of the most powerful laboratories of political innovation and social inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u63	Thank you very much, President. Today the proposing group, the EH Bildu group, proposes to us to draw up a specific plan for the promotion of research and innovation in the field of social services. It is clear that the Basque Government is responsible for regulatory development, system coordination, information management, training, innovation, research and quality development. And we must operate in the short, medium and long term, in order to improve the effectiveness of the system, capture the resources and the transformations necessary to ensure its sustainability, achieving an investment in the pyramid of care and the balance of care. But today the agreement has not been possible because there is no need to draw up a plan. And that does not mean that we are not developing many projects in social innovation. Social innovation is fundamental in all our policies, and in social policies as well; in that we all agree. The Basque Socialists are aware of the importance of continuing to strengthen and improve our system of social services, which is key to ensuring equality of opportunity in our society, to deploy personal and family life projects throughout our life cycle, as well as equality between men and women and social cohesion, promoting a balance of institutional and family care in favour of this first, and also to sustain the second, and the greater incorporation of men into care, encouraging co-responsibility. But the measures to be taken do not necessarily have to go through the elaboration of a specific plan for the promotion of research and innovation in the field of social services within six months as requested by the proposing group EH Bildu and the group Elkarrekin Podemos, or nine months as requested in its amendment by the People-Citizens Group. That does not mean - as I said - that things are not being done to advance the new model of care and research and innovation in the area of social services. Various innovative and transformative projects in the field of social services are being developed by the Basque Government, some financed from budgets of the Basque Government and others from Europe, such as the Altxor 7.0 project, aimed at providing information, guidance and personalized mediation to the over 65s on various issues relating to their vital projects until the end of their lives, so that they can develop a full life and participate socially. Or the Gizarte.eus project, an integral, customized digital information computer support for social intervention, which is a web application that aims to take into account the possibilities that open up all technological advances, artificial intelligence. Or a strategic project, which is developed together with the Department of Health in the area of electronic social history, to advance the digitization of the social health space and to consolidate the social health coordination. Or the European Cross-Border Pole on Ageing, which aims to promote initiatives and connect initiatives of prospecting, research... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... European Cross-Border Policy on Ageing, which aims to promote initiatives and connect prospecting, research and innovation initiatives from cross-border cooperation, in order to promote the autonomy and full life of older people. Or Zaintza Lurraldea, which aims to boost the generation of local ecosystems of care. Or an app to support caring families that allows on the one hand, to provide the necessary knowledge for the care of dependent people. Or Adin Berri's agreement to give a boost to advanced teleassistance within and through BetiOn. And also calls for aid to promote activities in the third sector, so that in the field of social intervention, which has EUR 5 million, and which also includes social innovation projects. It is progressing, therefore, in that area. The confluence of increased life expectancy and the crisis of the traditional model of care, supported largely by family care, where women are the ones who sustain, fundamentally, makes it necessary for us to rethink the current model of care. All persons have the right to be cared for. And the COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the importance of care to ensure an increasingly egalitarian and sustainable society, shifting its importance to the centre of public and social debate, and highlighting the crisis that affects the traditional model of care. Some sectors of the population are vulnerable due to the scarcity or absence of such social and community ties. The situation of unintended loneliness affects many people: older persons, unaccompanied foreign youth, people in situations of exclusion and social uprootment, and adults at different stages of life under different circumstances. There are also more and more people with accompaniment needs and support to develop autonomously in their daily lives, and to be able to relate and feel integrated and involved in their community. It is about building community, a space in which to be in common. A safety net that sustains in a deep, solid and lasting way all people in whom they can develop a good life, and participate equally in a well-being and support achieved jointly. We must therefore consolidate our system and promote its sustainability. And for this we must put in place a new model of care, which arises from a revision of this model, redesigning the scheme of providing care from our childhood is in our old age. From this we discussed in the full monograph, on the demographic challenge of 18 May; and from which came important and comprehensive proposals that will be integrated into the Basque Strategy of the Demographic Challenge that will be concluded shortly. The Basque Socialists are committed to the impetus of this new model of defamiliarized and defeminized, co-responsible care that allows family members who want to take care of it to do so without having to give up their employment, training, leisure or health. Therefore, the Basque Socialists believe that, within the challenges ahead, we must face the challenge of further improving the care networks for older people in our community, and the exclusion networks. There is a need to promote coordination and collaborative governance of the system. This must be done by applying the principle of equality in diversity, taking into account the Community model and the institutional structure of the Basque System of Social Services and the Basque Autonomous Community, and development and diversity in the three historical territories according to their needs. That is why we will support today the amendment to the whole signed between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, in which we call on the Basque Government to deepen research and innovation in the field of social services, in order to improve the quality of life of citizens, and to guarantee innovative and transformative programmes with the entities, of course, of the third social sector, for the elaboration and implementation. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u64	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I think that when we all say that we agree, we must fully promote research and innovation in all areas, even in the field of social services. And the investigation and innovation of the social service may be specially developed. And for one of the reasons mentioned, or named. This is, probably, like all things, but especially when we are on the road crosses, because the decisions we make to-day will be decisive from now on. Always in order to improve the population's quality with the purpose of improving it, and in support of modern programs and hips. Yes, I'd like to say about this that sometimes we have some kind of dots and that we can be modern and hip programs. But they must be reformers and changeables to reform, but especially because they are suited to us in order to face the mills we have faced. And I... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... for to reform, to modify, but above all because they are suited to us to resist those which we have before us. And I think we're all conscious of the romances we're dealing with. This morning, as we discussed the ecological transition, the digital transition, the demographic challenge, equality, care, must avoid the differences which have increased. You must not forget that you have to deal with problems which often occur, e.g. pandemia or the conclusions given us by the present Ukraine war. And in these situations, no doubt in all crisis, it must always be a vocation to protect the most vulnerable, because the former suffer the consequences, and probably suffer the most serious consequences. But I'd like to make another reflection about it, for forty years the institution of our self-generacy has been protecting the reactors. And I have read that in this other law, − is not the first time to say that − is always said, e.g., about the pandemia's account, that we have seen the stitches. Yes, but I would ask: and what social services, as well as social services in countries composed of the state, have not been seen by jostures in the time of the palace? I think we should take our reflection here on another way. Instead of saying that the institutions of the auto-generacy had been seen, perhaps we ought to think otherwise at the extreme, extreme, and at the very same time the institutions of our self-gorganization have been quite correct, as well as the most decent of them. No problem, no mistake, no mistake, no mistake, no mistake, no anxiety, no emergency, no terrible stress in a situation like this. So I think we should trust the institutions of our self-portraits more. And in this way, with the intention of reviving such sacrifices, I think it is necessary that we all agree with each other in study and knowledge. Face to face with innovation, as I said before, to face the romances we have. And the feeling I had in person, when we picked it up, didn't get rid of it. And it's a big deal like that, important, decisive, interesting, it may not be the most spectacular in politics, but it may have been a great influence on our society, that I think it's what's done to destroy and destroy. And destroy 'em because we got stuck around a plan. It's a plan, a plan for six months. And they say that everything is necessary for the improvement of the frame, or for a more distinct frame. And perhaps there is difference: that some look at the frame, and some look at the picture; that is to say, the content which should lie in it. I have said more than once, and I must repeat to-day, I think, that we ought to talk about the contents, the contents, the contents, and the contents, because they would enrich the study, reflection, and discussion. And we don't get out of it either. Here, Mr. Enchantch has introduced projects to the recovery and resilence mechanism which have been introduced to European projects. Mrs. Sakhez here mentioned several of them: Treasure 7.0, electronic social history, social society, plus, beyond the bounds of growing older, the pole of Europe, the watch-ground, the new age-related land. And these are chiefly those which concern the field of social services, but I am conscious that even in the employment class, at work and employment, its projects are carried along either by this size or by this road. In the field of intervention with nearly $5 million euros, there is the appeal to the promotion of the third social estate, which tends to attach more to the projects of the modern society to which they will present themselves. Besides, there's a reflection here that says, "No, we know there are projects, we know there are new projects, but that doesn't guarantee innovation." If we don't guarantee a renewal with our new projects, really bad, really bad, we'll go. Because I can understand it. I can understand it as a criticism. We have to do more. Okay. But we are also in all things connected with study and knowledge, we are always in one of those fields which will never suffice; where what is done is always less, for investigation can develop knowledge, but also in doubt. And then we're in a field where one should always be feeding and always increasing. And that's why we file our corrections and our teams together with the Socialist team. Above all, placed on two points. On the one hand, we don't get out of it. And the second, considering this, to let it go deeper, was said, "that he may study it in the field of social services, and improve the character of the people in the innovations of life." [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...that is to say: "He demands that he explores the social department, and renews, with the intention of improving the population's quality, by securing new programs and hipstors... "and so on, it must be considered, from what I said before, that the more the investigation is done, and the more the innovation, the more it finally demands. And, in this respect, and in respect of frame, I think that in our institutions of trust which I have just alluded to, we ought to be more confident in the institutions of our self-generan. There's the Human Foundation, too, huh? If I have taken it well from his state: according to the indirect axes of "partitions, administration, social initiative, and development, to form and encourage tactics and activities which lead to innovation, in the bosom of social incluation, integration, social services, and intensification." And, speaking of agreement, well, yes, it is true, as Madame Kortha used to say, that we perhaps got out of different readings, but that's the credit of agreements, isn't it? Get out of different readings and make a deal. But I'd say we didn't make a deal, because the plan was complicated, the plan wasn't in that sort of argument. And it is stuck in it, as you could see, in the way it was possible to interfere, if we were to co-operate in the discussion about the plan. As far as the other groups' amendments are concerned. The truth is, about Elkarrekin We can do nothing new under the sun. I mean, I mean, it says the same thing as Bildu says, but with more literature. I mean, you need a plan in six months, but then you tell us how and with whom to do it. Well, well, that's it, but I don't think they deserve any more comment either. And as for the Popular Group, at the hand of Mrs Garrido, because a little in the tonic that carries this entire legislature both in health and in social services, in which it is starting a pinion with Bildu, but it must be disguised. So, how do you hide? By summarizing the wording of the amendment and turning it around to the number of the deadline set for the plan, it turns around to six and becomes nine. But I don't think he deserves any more comment, either. I believe that what we have achieved about the plan or not, that I do not know whether it will come or not, but what we have managed to achieve is to make the analysis, the reflection and the debate a little smaller. And I think that what we should be talking about in this section should be more about content, projects and areas where we need to focus in order to meet the challenges...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u66	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u67	... that we have in the nearest and furthest future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. By answering, Mrs. Kortha's, the representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we required a specialized plan, a special plan of social service, not only because it has come to us, because in other places they are making a special plan to promote the innovation and investigation of social services. This demand is obtained by all the groups, and the Podemos says together: "Oh, yes. It's okay. We need a reform plan. Even Poptular party sees it. And you don't see it that way. Maybe you're the ones who got into trouble about not having a plan, maybe that's it. Because you used to say, "That frame contract does not leave this painting... "... I don't know how you discussed it, do I? And, klaro, it's just that we need to discuss the contents to agree with a frame, because otherwise we can talk about anything as a newsmaker. Those who are expert in the matter say: "We must agree to some of the minimum, as in several other matters." Even in non-ethical innovations agree what frames are. They don't take care of themselves, and they come in plans of technological innovation. Well, it's agreed what frame it is to be able to discuss the innovation of social services, especially to focus on its contents later on. That's very important. And you mentioned it: "If Project reporters aren't newsers... "I don't know. The projects which sometimes present themselves as reformers are not innovations, and they do not encourage a change in society. And often, and too often, we know not whether or not they have created innovations, because they are not evaluated. And even in this defining of frames, it is very important to determine methodology also, because here have been discussed many projects which have been announced as a reformer, yes? , but they do not follow a methodology marked by modern processes. They predict it as a reformer, and we don't even know their evaluation. Then I think it would be a question of reustrating this frame. And in the end it's what we plan here: Hey, do we take a train that's on? Do we take a train that's on? And whether we are once more re-entering this train, in this area, in the first line of this precursion that we have lost? Let's get out of here. Well, one thing is clear, isn't it? In doing the same thing, however deeply it may be, there is no great change. That's science. To do the same thing, and I think that when such a challenge strikes the door there are probably two great dangers: one, to think that what we're doing is hell, that we're the best, and the other is... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... there are probably two great dangers: one, to think that what we do is hell, that we are best; and the other is to lose ourselves in imperfections. And not only do we lose ourselves at the inns, but retire, retreat. And, as I have said, the necessity of such a specialised plan is not my invention, but a demand made by those who have heard it in these matters. Because today, at present, I think I can think of a marabilloso to make an investigation in the area of innovation. Let's say so. I'm probably rusty, but if it comes to my senses, I'm rusty, and it won't come to my senses, but if it comes to my senses, where do I go? Where do I have a frame in the community, in this community, where do I have a frame to make such an investigation? Where is it? Can you make a research process with 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 euros and a development process? A process, eh, can it be done? No. There may be some possible performances of innovation. But it's a different process. I had the chance to play a marabilloso in the field of innovation with some stories called fndos europeos or Frindos Norgos. It had to be done with a tremendous effort to present themselves to these fjords. It was a terrible project. It was necessary to introduce what was the original hypothesis, which was intended to be changed, what transformations were sought for in this project, what social levers were to be touched. A number of such things were to be defined in many languages, and it was even necessary to pass through a tribunal, in order to establish strict evaluations. These evaluations had to be strictly followed. It had to be taken care of. We have no such frames in this community. We don't. And it's a shame because in this area, collective intelligence is terrible. So I think that instead of getting involved, instead of getting involved, we must sometimes admit that the proposals that are brought to this court are decent, and that it is also interesting to take them. Anyway, I'm sure that if you don't want to keep losing the train, you'll have to bring in a plan like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko, Look, Mr. Urrutia, the truth is, I wasn't planning on going out in the replica, but you've had the good idea of messing with me a little bit, and I don't know what. Because I'm going to tell you, look, you remember when you and I at the beginning of the previous legislature, even at the end of the past, reached some family agreement, right? Because in family positions because - and that which I have been demanding and critical of family policies - I think you know that we are closer to you than to any other group in this House. And we've reached some other agreement. But, of course, to say I'm pinion... or that this group that I represent, the PP-Citizens group, is pinion with Bildu, when at the same time members of your group tell us that we are from a pinion with Vox, I think that both things cannot be done. I mean, everything can't be done. Of course, because this party, as you know, or in this case this coalition, does not play the double pacts, they do not play the rule with the Socialist Party, which is therefore quite disfigured in this government. But then you great pacts do make them with that bench. Do you want me to tell you some? Well, the Budgets, and no need for it. Education; basic agreements on education is a country agreement, as you say, that you have done with Bildu. Waste Plan; and that you have had a good fight and had a good fight with the issue of waste in Gipuzkoa, you are Gipuzcoan and you know it well, because there you have agreed the Waste Plan with EH Bildu. Environmental Heritage Act as well. Not to mention the issue of prisoners, prison politics and all that has to be done with removing any vestiges of Spain in the Basque Country, everything that has to do with transfers, everything that has to do with getting involved with the Spanish government, and that which is of the Socialist Party. Therefore, I want to say, that when you say so, use other terms or make other criticisms. But to go to an absolutely insubstantial, inconsistent criticism, because it seems to have no more. Look, I'm also going to tell you, I'm not going to vote in favour of the... in the end, I'm not going to vote against the compromise amendment either. Because I believe that the compromise amendment could also have been much simpler. It's just that I don't know what happens to Bildu and we can do that when..., I don't know who makes the amendments, but at that point in making the transaction there's something that interferes and you start to use a terminology that you don't even understand. "Intersectoral perspective", will be cross-sectoral, but cross-sectoral? Well, explain it to me. "Gender perspective", yes, it is already common in your initiatives. "Human rights approach in a cross-cutting manner". Come on, I believe that all initiatives that are promoted and adopted in a democratic Parliament will have a human rights perspective. That is, if this initiative had been much cleaner, it would have had our support. But it's that you're tangled, you're tangled in yourself. I tell you, I don't know what happens to you when you make the proposals, which are more or less understandable, as I say to you, clean, simple, that then, when the transactions arrive, you start to come up with words that, I say, I think you don't understand them yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u72	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u73	I'll do it from the place. Mr Urrutia, yes, this opposition group likes literature, what we're going to do. When we make amendments we put literature, honey, mime and... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... Urrutia, yes, this opposition group likes literature, what we're going to do. When we make amendments, we put literature, love, mime and many times even poetry. Although then that's good... I'm sorry that Laura Garrido still doesn't understand how many times we've talked about the concept of intersectionality, that we've taken him to the Equality Act and talked about it at the same table all together. So I encourage you to look for it now on Wikipedia, which is not cross-sectoral, which is cross-sectoral. Mr Urrutia also spoke of frames and frames. And that's just it. I mean, when someone's going to buy a painting, they also buy the frame. And in this sense, I think we're talking... I will highlight three issues. In his day, we had a framework that was advanced, the Social Services Act, the map, the portfolio decree. That was a framework that for other territories and for other sites was a reference. What about it? That that frame didn't have a painting. Well, I had a painting, but that painting has to go renovating, because those paintings are also undrawing. And now we are at a time when it is very important to redefine that content. And how is that content redefined? Well, researching, devoting money to research. And, of course, you say, yes, yes, if we're doing it, we're doing it great and we're doing it really well, and that's the line we're working on. But it's not that. We are proposing a very specific question, which from the outside is perfectly understood. A plan, in a specific time, with specific objectives, with a specific methodology, the methodology used in social services research. And that's very clear, and it's clear in and out. And I feel, I really feel, that we have not been able to be in this same frame and in this same picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. The Socialist Basque shouldn't speak a word. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u75	Mrs. Garrido, do I remember? Yeah, we made deals. I also remember one we didn't sign for a word. I remember, I remember. Because we have always spun quite thinly, but everything else that we make with I don't know who, the covenants we make a few, I think shows the insubstantiality of your argument. That the pacts we make, that we make with Bildu in educational matters or with whom I don't know, what makes clear is the insubstantiality of his argument, because little or nothing has to do with the subject we have today. Mrs Gonzalez, sometimes I recognize that you have the ability to leave me ojiplatic. In your first intervention you said something like the autonomy so many times mentioned, such... It's not enough to live. I think... I repeat, I repeat one of the messages I wanted to convey in my first speech, and I believe that we have ample reason to have more confidence in our institutions of self-government. I think that if this autonomy is not enough we could increase it to live better, but I think that really the standard of living of the country is not like saying that you can't live. And I am aware of the increase that we are experiencing not only in Euskadi, but in virtually every West, the inequalities and problems that we have. But I think if you look around, you can't manifest what you have manifested. Our amendment does not urge us to continue to do what is being done, because I personally took care not to "go deeper", but to deepen, because of the reflection I have done before, because I believe that research and innovation is a matter that always asks more, always asks more, because, in the end, research leads to knowledge, and knowledge also ends up transmitting to us its new doubts that need to be investigated and that need to be studied. You were talking about the lock in your first intervention. No lock. It's just that Mrs. Kortajarena may like what I'm going to say. Baina es ke horretan katramilatu race: plana bai, plana, ez; plana bai, plana ez. Eta ez dugu edukia buruz hitz egin. Eta, beharbada, azterketa hau, hausnarketa hau garatzeko, nik uste dut zera egin beharko genukeela: edukiei buruz hitz egin. Eta edukiek eduki horiek were ango gaituzte aurrera egitera. He also said that you like literature. I don't know, I sure do. I like literature, too. But sometimes from your literature I get the impression that you have to hide that they always say what Bildu says. So, of course, then we need to tell who we have to do with we have a hypothetical plan, how, etc. Which is very good and that one day we'll have to address as well, but... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...with whom we have to make a hypothetical plan, how, etc. which is very well, and which one day will have to be addressed too, but first addressing the content. Because between the frame and the frame, really, I when I'm going to buy a frame, I buy the frame, and then the frame, because even many times it can be changed. And I had so many things to tell her that I didn't bring the paper. But I think we'll have a chance, because it's true that the plan can come, yes. You say you're sure he'll come. I wouldn't say yes or no, but I'll tell you one thing. It seemed to me that, from the speech of the opposition teams, it seemed to me, what I've said before, we've upset the plan, not the plan. And it seems to me that there are many doctrines, a discourse learned by heart. The other purpose of your law was perfectly round, but it seems to me that there is no great alternative between the opposition groups, or the investigation and innovation of social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nozzeral corrections that have been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 27; the contrary is 42; the abstainers are six; the whites are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u77	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 6; the contrary, 41; the Abstations, 28; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u78	Not accepted. And finally, the Basque Socialists, the Eucalists, the Eucan patriots, will vote for the full corrections that have been proposed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 22; the abstations, 12; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-26.u79	Integer correction has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at fifty-nine.
