ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Mr. Fernando Buesa and Mr. Enrique Casas, we will begin with a minute's silence. [[One minute's silence]] The vote for the congressman is hand-picked by Estiliz Larrate. And we'll start. First point in theme list: "The examination of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, the state of the New Mountain Institute with mutual compatibility. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Does he want to speak against us? We'll simply vote for the union committee, except for the members of the legislature related to the judgment, and the other members of the legislature can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 69; in favors, 69; opponents, 0; abstain, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u1	Therefore judgment is approved. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and the EH Collectors, about the plans of the Medical Department not to leave the health hospitals behind the overwork of the workers. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Ubera, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u2	Good morning, everyone. Before the speech of the day begins, I will bid farewell and welcome our guests at Emergence, those who enter the legislature, and those who are outside. Today we are able to discuss the effect of the interpenetration that took place on February 11th. And what we wanted with interpelation and motion, and what we wanted to achieve, is the goals we want to achieve: one to pay for what is due to the workers; two for the management problem, neglect, or ill management, to prevent the citizens and workers from suffering and not to pay; when three of the medical department's duty services are revealed, the training of technical conditions, and opening up a line with the laborer in the sector to direct as fast as possible the lack of government and the development of technical conditions; and the fourth, in six months' time, to make a study and plan for the public service which Emergence has turned against the sanitary organizations. First of all, we have to say that since we made an interjection, we have novels, very rarely, but we have positive nobedades. Now it seems that the scursiveness of the social security residence of Gibraltar, which is in Seville, had forgotten to be put to death by the −Jaursaria, on the legal report. But when the thing came to the legislature, it was over, you know, and then it began to move. Sad, isn't it? It was all very strange and dark, and we had to bring it to the lawmen to collect their cares and the employees. Maybe he's taken it in time. Maybe it's possible. Honela gave zehazki Bilboko epaitegietara bidalitako Jaurlaritzaren gutunak: "On February 16, 2022, the legal advice of the Directorate of Financial Policy sent us by email the proof of transfer made by the company Casualty & General Insurance Company, branch in Seville, for the amount of 286.531,52 euros. Therefore, when the money is actually available from the treasury service belonging to the Directorate for Financial Policy, they will proceed to transfer it to the relevant courts." Hope the workers get what's theirs, even if they're still waiting to see how and how much they'll pay and how much they'll pay for it. We'll see, we'll keep an eye on it. We all like to collect for the work we do, even for the underconcontradictions of Emergence. And it's sad having to act like that. Newsbookly, even in the enterprise they're working on, there's been difficulty in cashing nomines. And anyway, it's like when you're going to get a dollar from people, not just any number...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u4	...that he'll insert a very competent figure into the corporations because the company doesn't get to pay their nomines. How is that possible? How is that possible? Besides, it seems that this funding will be included under the concept of management of the law. What are you... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... How is that possible? How is that possible? It seems, moreover, that this funding will be included under the concept of management of the policemen. What's he doing? How does the health department do the assignments? The management of the service which, as I was saying to the head of the Medical Department, is quite a pity, not to mention it to be miserable. But we do not know why this really happens: For neglect? Because he doesn't give the importance of service? or, as soon as the service is released, the Department of Health discharges entirely all that concerns it. It's normal that a company introduced to an Al has a desire for profit, but what's not normal is that the medical department should be concerned with providing a quality service. That's why it's certainly not easy to understand that in a dead or living service, which is the first service of attention, when you're making a move, you're not hiring the company's privacy, and the rest of it's in Gibraltar. It's not normal that one of the company's company was part of the UTE company to run away from his cares and to be at work for Christmas, and to pay for that company with everybody's money. I think it's more than fun to manage the money. You should be more careful because it runs with everybody's money. I can't handle him with his money or EAJ's. But all this is a drop in the sea stirred from emergencies. It is an example of how it is managed, how there is no control, how there is no supervision, how, thanks to the efforts of the workers, an essential, front-line service is attempted to keep and float, in which the Department of Health has long since completely abandoned it. It was very significant when the Emergencyziak manager told us in the appearance that it wasn't his responsibility the contracted party. And we ask ourselves: Whose responsibility is it? Curious, isn't it? The Department hires a company or a few companies, but then, like it doesn't go with it, when those contracted companies offer service with Osakidetza's clothing, on behalf of Osakidetza, ambulances wear the Osakidetza logo and go to people's emergencies on behalf of Osakidetza. And the question is, why? Why do Osakidetza, the Department of Health, Emergencyziak, evade their responsibility? Our situation in Emergence is very pretor. We told the chief physician of health: the condition of an ambulance is pretor, the state of the workers is pretor, the state of the ambulances is premier. The previous day, during the interpelation, the head of our medical department represented the model of our vehicles as an example, but the whole fleet does not exist in the everyday. We do not know where a part of the fleet which represents it in its Allocation is, and we ought to explain it also. Even in the Interpelation, the medical department told us that time, that sending the closest ambulance is not important, that it was more important to send an appropriate ambulance when it's collected in the pliers that it should be time to send the nearest ambulance when it's received in the protocols. They don't even have a record device, they don't even have a second check on the second place and security that's being picked up in the Plains. What formation have they received during the last two years? What formation did they get? But today, the greatest lack of basic ambulances is that they have no strategy, no direction. Such information is not received by companies, and least of all by workers. The only thing we know is that there's a lot to improve, starting from coordinate centers, continuous from protocols, with patient clinical security, time for maturity, localizations. Emergency management outside the hospital has not been the priority for this government. And we've had some disturbing situations and we've lived them. Look, you remember when the centralization of the center coordinaters happened, there would be a report that we agreed on in this legislature that this report would be finished for 2019: The legislation ended, we began a new legislation, and we don't know the report. The edge of the Security Department. and the centralization of centralization has also produced terrible evils. On December 31st, 2019, the removal of the UTEs service has not only happened on December 31st, 2019: This is a cyclically repeated fact. We see that the time has come when Emergence enables us to take the Integrated Sanitarian Organization, with a solid management, with its workers of Emergence, to open a permanent line of improvement with the representatives of the workers, and to give us steps to change the model management. They're starting to be in the neighboring community. Steps started during pubertication: If we've had trouble with what we've been up to now, why don't we at least examine, another model of management? And this is what we wish to set up for the present: to perform a examination in six months' time, and to publish that section, which Emergence hires to operate in the Integrated Sanitio organization. If the old management model doesn't work, let's try something else, right? We have a clear idea of the example of Emergence. And these years, we have proposed this model in this legislature, and have suggested different ways of reaching that model. We made a suggestion for the history of European funds in the Euskal Autonomy Eremia Ere, which is necessarily a strategic area, answering daily and not usual emergency problems, which we respond to, to structure, organize, organize, and arrange our services in one network, to be more efficiently organized and organized, to give us steps in the stability of the system... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... In order to organize and organize, to be more efficient daily management, to give steps to the stability of the system, to be more efficient in the public funds, to penetrate into transparency, to place the area and population which may exist in the peripherarys in the centre of public health, and above all to save lives, for what is here in play is life? And we're ready to share our project, to talk about our project. At the update of 1/2017 Law, we even tried to create the Euscal Agency in the Emergency Law, the only structure and the public in the case of emergency emergency emergency emergency emergency emergencies. We didn't get it, we didn't get it, but it opened the way to that structure. So we have the handle to hit that road. Today we demand an examination and a planning to start, and, after examination, to present ourselves to the legislature. I don't think that's too much to ask. Because we cannot constantly continue in these discussions, engaged in the discussion of eternal want and preparation, when we treat of the fundamental and fundamental code of the public health system. We know that we have a great deal of challenge and difficulty in our hands at this moment, and we are conscious that it is not easy to reach them all, and that they require an effort, but they must always come to business at the Emergence's house, because they always stand aside, and there is time for our challenge here. Because it's time for an emergency service of quality. Because, after all, we're offering a proper health care, which life saves, that's where it's in the direst emergency. We think it's essential. That's why we made today's proposal in order to get what I've explained at the beginning. Tell them the other teams even introduced corrections. And together we've made a medium with Podemos-Nozzer, and that's what we're talking about. And we would be grateful to the rest of the legislative groups to seriously reflect on what is going on with this service, and to reflect on it, if you please, we must settle this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we are forced to start by condemning the attack on Ukraine and trusting that all democrats will support the action of the European Union and NATO, and send our support to the Ukrainian people. The motion brought to us today by Bildu, in connection with the Emergency Service, seems to us to be a revolt, an important revolt of subjects, which makes the debate very difficult and which does not help us to move forward in a solution to a problem that is undoubtedly very important, not only because there are employees affected, but also because it has an impact, indeed, on the health of the population, and at times, moreover, very sensitive. But to mix the employment situation of emergency workers with the problem of the endorsement, with the technical means, the lack of inspection in the quality of the service, the lack of information in the tender for the award to the UTE, in the legal form of structuring the service, because it seems to us that it would have been more effective if this initiative had been presented on only one of these issues. We would have been able to analyse and deal with it in depth, and, if necessary, other initiatives on each of them would have been presented. But, finally, everyone is exercising parliamentary activity as he sees fit. I am going to try to go in order, and I am going to give you my group's views on each of the matters included in this (...) initiative. On the issue of the UTE endorsement, it seems to us that it is a clear demonstration of the poor management of the Basque Government, which did not carefully analyse who the financial institutions that issued the endorsement were. This government, which has been selling to all citizens the myth of good management, is increasingly showing that its management of the public media is more than improveable. But once the mistake has been made - that we will pay all Basques, as always, and especially the workers of the UTE, who have been thrown away - all that remains is waiting for the corresponding judicial claim to follow its course, hoping that this has been done well. Of course, workers must pay what they are owed, and of course, they must be repaired in this respect. Therefore, in our amendment, we urge the Basque Government to review and correct public procurement procedures and regulations in order to prevent similar situations in the future that have led to the impossibility of implementing the UTE endorsement, and to exercise all legal claims arising from the breach of the contract with UTE Larrialdiak Maiz in all possible courts, in order to give effect to the guarantees provided by that UTE and to defend public interest and money. With regard to workers' claims to the failed UTE, it is a matter for the judges to examine. I wish they'd do it for the workers. We hope that there will soon be an adequate response to those labour rights that may have been violated. But this is a workers' claim to a private company, or rather to a temporary union of companies, to the UTE itself. And, in that connection, we understand that the Basque Government does not have to be in the middle, however much these companies have been awarded a public service. I know you would fix all the problems in the world with the money of the Basque citizens, but I prefer that public money is handled more rigorously, because it does not come out of the trees. With regard to the quality of service, technical means, lack of information, etc., the Basque Government believes that it must review the terms of the contract and/or the contracts that are being made and the management, control and monitoring systems, because, in fact, it seems to us that they do not have the appropriate quality and level of commitment... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... management, control and monitoring systems, because we do not think they have the right level of quality and level of commitment. And in the event that they are improveable, which I believe is clear that they are improveable, since everything necessary is changed to ensure that they are rigorously and continuously complied with towards companies which, in fact, charge their agreed figure every month, and which therefore have to provide the service with the means and the proportional quality. It is true that the amount of money is not unlimited, but it is a subject..., it is not small, but it is a very sensitive subject, and that it should be managed with a level of care and a level of excellence that we think we are far away from today. We also propose in our amendment that the Basque Government review and improve the economic, material and labour conditions required in the solicitation documents for emergency services, with the same aim of ensuring the provision of an excellent quality service, given the level of sensitivity that, logically, entails for the citizenry this service. What does not seem to us to be a receipt is that the solution proposed for everything is to make the service public. What makes you think that if the workers who offer the service are civil servants or employees of the Administration, they will do better than if they are employees of a private company? There are examples for all tastes. What makes you think that companies run by public officials or employees are better managed than those run by employees or entrepreneurs?For it would actually be the other way around. I know that you private companies in general do not like them very much, that you consider them all to be suspected of illicit enrichment, and that if it were you we would go to a fully state-owned economy, which is no longer visible and in the few communist countries that are remaining in the world. But the reality is that for many years now it has been shown that private initiative is far more effective than public management. That employees of private companies do their job beautifully and with a level of commitment and professionalism from which there is much to learn in the public administration, and that private enterprise is a source of wealth generation and irreplaceable employment. We therefore do not agree that this service should be made public, but that its management by the Basque Government should be improved. With regard to the amendments tabled, we have to say that when we saw the proposal from the groups supporting the Government, we thought that there was a compromise with our amendment, because they were not only similar, but I would say that the Government's proposal was drafted using our own script. But we were surprised that the Government announced that they did not see any points of coincidence. The truth is, what I see is few points of difference. And therefore, I have to conclude that there will be some other reason that I do not want to even study our compromise proposal. Then they will be filled with their mouths talking about Auzolan, of collaboration with the opposition, hand in hand, etc., when reality is just the opposite, and the citizens must know this reality. However, I am grateful to Mrs Lete for the cordiality and kindness with which she has led this process, which has proved somewhat absurd to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u8	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Sad wars, of course, if it is not love that promotes them, as that poem somehow said. Our group, our coalition, of course, condemns all wars, and this for peace, although, of course, I do not believe that support for NATO, an organization created precisely for war, is the solution to conflicts. Today, in the face of this initiative, we must, of course, say that we find it a real shame and a waste of time that, three years later, there will be dozens of uncollected workers who are still awaiting wages. Workers who also work in an essential public service, in a public service of first order, such as emergencies, such as ambulances. It is a real shame for a country that workers who carry out this important work have to be three years after that lame departure from the company in December 2019, they still have to be claiming those wages. We believe that here there are several responsibilities, of course, that of the Government, to which I will refer a little later, but I would also like to start with the company, for the..., in this case, the UTE, several companies, companies that already before that rock-bottom trip happened had an attitude that is not unacceptable to these workers, with unpaid wages, etc. And this is not admissible for those who are giving a public service. It is not acceptable for companies, in this case this particular company, to have this type of attitude with the workers. Firstly, because it is not acceptable for workers who provide this service, such an essential service, to have to be in such unfortunate conditions, and secondly, because this always affects the service, and in this case it affects patients, patients who have to resort to emergencies, who have to resort to such an essential and necessary service as ambulances. Unfortunately, the bad practice of private companies working for the public administration in this field, also in others, but of course, in this field, is increasingly a worse practice. We see companies that only seek private benefit. A private benefit that they get from public resources that we pay citizens, most of us and we workers with our taxes. They get some benefits and they do so at the expense of degrading the working conditions of the workers, to the point of not meeting even the legal minimums, as we are seeing in this case, with wage debts three years later. This is totally... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... of not even meeting the legal minimums, as we are seeing in this case with salary debts three years later. This is completely unacceptable. Companies that offer this type of services to the public administration, not only in our autonomous community, but also in others, are increasingly plagued with investment funds as owners because they know it is a business niche, a business niche, and, quite secure, quite profitable. Resources obtained from the public administration with a need for citizenship, which is health care. Then they tell us it's the market. There's no market here, there's no competition here. Here is a safe business for them through a need for citizenship. And, of course, there is also a responsibility of the Government in this matter, a great responsibility of the Basque Government. I believe that the Basque Government, I am not going to say that it acted in bad faith, but, of course, it has been absolutely negligent in the management of this award. It cannot be that the Basque Government takes out this type of service and finds itself, from night to morning, with which a company leaves the service and stays a part of the country, on 1 January, and, as we all know, the New Year's Eve is a night on which, surely the workers know perfectly well, with a great workload for them, they leave the country with the company that gives that service out of service. Of course, the company's responsibility. But, of course, there is a negligence on the part of the Basque Government in the management of these resources, and that must be said and that responsibility must be demanded of the Basque Government. Also with the wage debt. But it seems to me that with the management of this type of services there is a great responsibility of the Basque Government. If these workers are here today, it is because of the bad practice of the company, but also because of the bad management of the Basque Government. That is why it seems to us that, of course, the Basque Government must be involved and must ensure that workers who ultimately worked for this autonomous community do not have to be three years later demanding the payment of wages that have been earned with the sweat of the front, which were won with the sweat of their front long ago. But, secondly, the Basque Government must also make a self-criticism of the mismanagement it has made of this. And immediately afterwards, to reflect on the model we have in the privatized part of emergencies, in the privatized part of ambulances. We obviously disagree with Mr. Gil Vegas's exhibition on models. It is not a question of workers working better if they are in a private enterprise or in a public enterprise. The workers, who, at all events, are generally professionals, and more in a sector as sensitive as this, and will work well in any field. But the public model guarantees, first, that the Administration is responsible for what is its obligation: to give the service directly without intermediaries, that the only thing they want is to earn money, because the effect of that need to earn profits on the part of these companies is what affects the quality of work, not the good or bad practice of the workers, which we believe is very good in general terms, that is what weakens the model. That's why we question that model. That is why we defend and believe that a direct public model is important. And, indeed, as has already been said here, there are other communities that have begun that path. In the coming weeks, the most recent, in La Rioja a pact between the United Left, Podemos and the Socialist Party will launch a public enterprise to manage ambulances, and, moreover, with something, logically, very important: the subrogation of the workers who had been providing these services. That's the model. That is the model that will prevent future situations like these from reoccurring, of non-payment three years after wages for women workers who have already earned that salary and who should not be here today. We, therefore, as Mrs Ubera has said, have signed a compromise in this regard with the proposing group. First of all, the most urgent thing to do is to get those wage debts paid. Secondly, the Government recognizes that there has been mismanagement. And, thirdly, and for me very important, the reflection to which we invite the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi on the two models that are in play, the reflection on the fact that Euskadi has a fully public model, as, for example, will happen in La Rioja also with the participation of the Socialist Party. That is our commitment because we believe that this is what will ensure in the future that these problems are reoccurred. And, of course, I want the workers to receive these debts as soon as possible and that all the workers who work in ambulances in Euskadi should stop having problems, because they are constant problems that they have with companies every time they change an award and during the course of the awards.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u10	Thank you, Madam President. And it will allow me, first of all, to express, on behalf of the Socialist Group, our condemnation of the attack by Ukraine and our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. Also to greet the emergency workers who have come to this plenary. Mrs Ubera, I am going to try to schematicize because after your speech, which has been a little bit of coming here with everything, it is difficult to reflect what we are talking about. I believe, and at least I understand that from your initiative, that you raise three questions. The first, the specific situation of the quantities due by the company UTE Larrialdiak Anbulantziak to the workers. A second... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...questions. The first, the specific situation of the quantities due by the company UTE Larrialdiak Anbulantziak to the workers. A second, which would be the current status of the service. And, a third, that would be the service to the future. And I'm going to start with the first: the amounts due to the workers. Here it is necessary to be clear, there is a claim - which is legitimate - of the workers, because they are right. And that has to be said unequivocally, from this Parliament and from anywhere. And, of course, we support him. But let's talk about the context. By the end of 2019, as you all know, the award of the new contract file had already been made, but there were a number of appeals that made the new company unable to enter at the time it was established. This was taken advantage of by Larrialdiak to try to move an increase in tariffs - which was completely unjustified - and which, of course, was not accepted. And since it was not accessed, by bureaufax they reported that on January 1, 2020 at 00:00 they stopped providing the service. And this, of course, caused at least two consequences: first, the service had to guarantee it; and, second, a harmful consequence for the workers, because, moreover, Larrialdiak left without paying the extra pay and without paying the finiquito. That's the situation. Let's see the guarantee of service. Of course, this was an important and logical concern on the part of the Basque Department and Government, because the service had to be guaranteed so that the citizens of Euskadi did not pay for the duck. And that's something I think we'll all agree on. How did it get done? Well, alternatives were sought with other operators to continue to provide this service normally. And how did it materialize? Well, through emergency files. And the service was provided from that 1st January, until the new companies had already entered. Let's talk about the amounts due by the company to the workers. Indeed, Larrialdiak left without paying those amounts we talked about. I repeat, to be clear, inadmissible. And also, logically, the workers are claiming it. Where? Courthouse. Because you, like me, all of us here, know that this is the procedure. And what has the Basque Government done? Hold the back. There are problems with execution. It's true. Why? Because he's based in Gibraltar. But, of course, you here today slipped something that you said more clearly in the interpellation, because you blamed the government for not having done the duties by not seeing that you were in a place that could cause problems. And it's not true, it's not true, because you know it. And I'm gonna explain it to whoever doesn't know, but you know it. Because the problem arises with Gibraltar a year after the contract had already ended with Brexit. With Brexit. A year later. Because, to all intents and purposes, Gibraltar was the United Kingdom. And I say he knows. Do you know why you know? Because we could also see Article 13.3 of the Royal Decree-Law which was passed for the transitional period, which even allowed these insurance companies based in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Gibraltar to continue operating for two years to come. And you know that, because EH Bildu in the Congress of Deputies did not vote against it. No, he didn't vote against it. Therefore, things are as they are. It's not worth using everything here. We need to clarify this: the workers are right, but it is not worth going out here to say absolutely everything. And, through this problem that Brexit has caused us to everything, there have been two problems in implementing the endorsement. Yeah. First, we have an agreement with the Tax Agency that does not allow us to pursue outside the Spanish borders. And, second, these specific companies are on the list that since January 1, 2020, 2021, sorry, cannot work in Spanish territory. Yeah, that's right, things have gotten complicated. Therefore, the workers are right in their claim. The procedure has been complicated, but a solution must be sought. And that is why our point is one of the amendment, which is that the Basque Government should take the appropriate actions to ensure that the company's debt to the workers is paid off. And, of course, coming here to say that everything has started since you brought it to this Parliament two weeks ago, so forgive me, but it is ridiculous. And you know it, I'll say it again. He's read a little thing here. Read what comes before, read the dates on which the Basque Government's Financial Policy Directorate has requested the quantities from the company. You'll see we're talking about June, you'll see we're talking about January. No, we are not talking about two weeks ago, when you brought this initiative to the Basque Parliament. That's not true, Mrs. Ubera. That's not true. The service today. I am not going to dwell on the material aspect of the Emergency Service, because, moreover, we have already talked here about the helicopter, about the 11 advanced life support resources with a doctor, about the other 11 with a nurse, about the 63 ambulances with basic life support, or about the 428 emergency and scheduled transport ambulances, which, as you know, can be advanced life support if you are added to it by a doctor or a nurse, nor will I give a good account of the quality of the resources we have. I want to stop in the working conditions of the sector. And I go back to the context, because it's important. We came from a previous situation that was anomalous. In Bizkaia, the convention had passed to better life in 2014; in Gipuzkoa, in 2010; and, in Alava, there were six conventions. And we find ourselves in a situation where there were very unequal conditions. That is why, in 2019, the signing of the Autonomous Convention on Health Transport in Euskadi was proposed. By the way, it is supported by 70% of the trade union party. Good. This resulted in the homogenization of working conditions: upward wage parity in all categories, reduction of working hours, increase of the maximum age limit, more assistance, improvement of contract conditions in practices, supplementary social benefits, and paid leave and leave. Conclusion: substantial improvement of previous conditions. By the way, the convention was valid for two years: 2020 to 2021. The content was expected to be maintained until a new agreement was reached, but... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... of the above conditions. By the way, the convention was valid for two years: 2020 to 2021. The content was expected to be maintained until a new agreement, but this is perfectly guaranteed by the labour reform that you have not supported. In any case, that agreement, which provides for substantial improvements, and I think we will all agree, must be looked at in the specifications for the award of the service, as was done together with other issues, such as the endowments of the bases of operations, operating protocols, ambulance characteristics, training requirements... which are included and, therefore, and this is important, must be fulfilled. And, in this regard, the second point of our amendment: that inspection and monitoring systems should be maintained to verify that they are being complied with, and, if they are not, that the Basque Government should take the necessary measures to ensure that the conditions are met. Of course, it seems important to me, because here you can't come and say one thing and the other. You can't say - how they come to us and told us in the interpellation - I don't know what about the inspections, is that the inspections..., and then claim more inspectors. There's something wrong with what you're saying. There's something that doesn't get married; here it's not worth everything. And finally, service to the future. We have always advocated the constant improvement of public services, and in this regard we believe that the instruments for coordination, control and improvement of the quality and effectiveness of the system must be deepened. And we believe that this must be the case, whether it is the provision of the service directly by the public or in public-private collaboration. We don't care. We don't care. That must always be guaranteed. And in that we are no stranger to publishing processes that have already materialized in other autonomous communities. And I am going to say this: we believe that we have to pay attention - indeed - to our environment, in order to assess all possibilities. But, I repeat, these quality standards give us no matter whether the provision of the service is public-private or directly public. Those standards always have to be there. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, members of the legislature. Well, we introduced the original motion we have on the table, a full correction, and all the other teams too. We received an invitation to direct the middle-line correction, and examined it thoroughly. It couldn't have been, but I think it's a positive attempt. Particularly, I would like to thank Mr. Popular-Chaulous, Mr. Gil's essay: he has shown the will ready and ready, although he has added other things to-day. It wasn't possible, I wanted to explain our reason. Mahai heurean daukagun proposed in honetan, guk aurkeztu of some proposed, aspektu tekniko-juridiko oso zehatzak daude, age horiek aldatzea ez genuine possible ikusten, (legality?) They beat barruan, noski. Gure zuzenketan jaso ditugun Puntu guztiak egingarriak dira. Egingarriak will say, age hori bear inportantee da. Not only are they likely, but they are possible, and also possible, to achieve them within a limited period of time, thanks to the efforts already made by the Government and the high degree of maturity of these efforts. We felt that it was important, very important, not to introduce into our proposal aspects that did not exactly conform to reality and legality. And why did we want to agree and - let us say - why did we want it to be so? Because this affects people, workers who are here with us today, who do not deserve to receive an incorrect message, who generate wrong expectations, because they have already suffered quite a few changes in their employment situation in recent years. When the counselor responded to the interpellation in full control, she gave us a lot of data about the service. I am not going to go in and repeat them because, obviously, he did it much better than me and with more knowledge. But remember that the Emergency Service consists of 1 helicopter, 11 advanced life support resources with doctor, 11 life support ambulances with nursing, 63 basic life support ambulances, and all this includes 402 people. The data I wanted to bring back to the table with one purpose, and it's a solid form of service. The co-ordination of all this system is in the hands of the Euko-Ming. And they are different ways of doing service, and different kinds of things are used for it. The government is the head of it, on the edge of that pyramid. And besides, the chief physician added that TETA system has increased, which is a perfect tool for coordinate. But, Mrs. Ubera, the remote nuts approach 14. This is what I came to say in your discourse: You have said many things at the same time, and few things at the same time. In the light of the communication from the contractor, Larrialdiak-Maiz, that she would not continue with the service, the Basque Government, in particular the Department of Health, set 31 December as an absolute priority the maintenance of the ambulance service, despite the fact that the company contracted for it at the last moment said that it could no longer carry out this task, or did not want to. This was the priority. And as a result, with the greatest speed, the precise tools were sought for citizens and the health system to continue to function with absolute normality. In fact, this was the case: the service continued to be offered from the user's point of view normally, despite the storm that this caused for the Government, of course, and for the workers, of course, who, from night to morning, saw themselves in a delicate and unforeseen work situation. As everyone knows, the formalization of the contracts was slower than they wanted and desired, and until 1 August it was not possible for them to be definitively formalized. During this time it was attended with excellence, the service was offered with excellence. And that must be recognised by the Basque Government... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... They were definitely formalized. During this time it was attended with excellence, the service was offered with excellence. And that must be recognised by the Basque Government. In the face of the setbacks that have arisen, he sought nothing but to prioritize the priority: to give priority to the health displacement needs that citizens might need. In this particular situation, I'm sure you'll be able to find out if you don't like it, but in the last seven months the service went on like this. He continued thus, though pandemia was over him at that moment, on all of us. He replied also to the situation of Pandemia, and the first and second wave, which was a special situation, and yet the protocol, the instruction, the instruction, even in the general absence of EPI, was given an answer. It's not fair, it's not fair not to think about all this, and it's time to start off with some companies that helped and the workers, of course, and along the road together... Oh, well, the service was given. For this reason, we have determined at the second point of view and follow closely, because we have this very present thing, and that it is not denied that it is done. I said that priority was given, because people are always a priority for the Government and the parties we support the Government. But in doing so there was no forgetfulness towards the workers of this contract, although probably from a human point of view we would all have wanted to do so in another way and be closer. Gobernuak zerbitzuetako kontratzioa Larrialdiak (...) UTEarekin zeukan, horren zuzentasunik ez dago kolokan, ez dago kolokan, nahiz eta, Ubera andrea, zuk hainbat zalantza, susmo eta Salaketa mahai haenean ipini. Gogoratu behar da halako lizitaziorako kontratzio zerbitzu and dakka Gobernuak, eta teknikari finak eta adituak dira, eta horiek eraman due aurrera espedientea. There was no mistake in our file on the table, you didn't find a mistake; there's no such thing as the watering of what was agreed on, there's no room for it in the plagus and conditions, and there's no delay for payment. Much less, much less control. This does not remove the government from the fact that it has neither empathy nor sensibility with the workers, that it has not observed the circumstances of its work, but we must act justly. And you said in your proposition: "You're crazy to be on top of him." Ms. Ubera, this is what you propose, you know it's not possible. No way. It's not legal. It can't be paid directly to the workers. I can't afford the wages the company paid for. And you, Mrs. Ubera, you know that. Then the things we put on the table are useful. At that point, the first point of our motion reminds you that everything that's in motion should be carried forward. When UTE left the service, the workers took care of the subrogation of the workers, went to the court of society, and the government did everything that the court asked for. And when he had received orders to execute the ass, he went to that end. There were difficulties, we were told here about the firm where the activa y por paiva Gibraltar residence. It is true that this has made the trial difficult, but the Government has continued in a permanent manner, and we are in the process of recovery. In the end, Gibraltar at the time was a community territory, it was in the community territory. Brexit has changed the picture, but, well, in the UK it was two elections. So I hardly believe that the contracting body could take all of this into account. This is a court case. The social court has required the cooperation of the Government and the economic and contracting bodies. The Government will do as the courts dictate, and if the judge decides that the contractor has a joint responsibility, the Government will have to act accordingly. Because the court that has analysed the whole issue so dictates. But not because neither you nor I agree, no; that does not fall within our competence. It is something, it is something that has no path, so it is an exercise of responsibility to include in our proposal that which is executable, that which is legal and that which will help in this process in which workers have a few uncollectible amounts, which we all regret, of course. I would also be grateful, as Mrs. Ubera has said, to reflect on the rest of the teams, to consider where our forces are, to see where our origin is, and to see that development will be much better based upon it. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u14	The responsibility for the service, the responsibility for the service is the Government's, and it is subsidiary and legally the Government's. I don't know, you've noticed, we're in the government. It seems that our responsibility is ours. Welcome to the government, ladies and gentlemen, welcome. It will be that the Basque Government does not check the solvency and the endorsement will be the responsibility of EH Bildu. It's going to be that the Brexit issue was a one-day process for another. You can wear the monkey as you like, but the reality is what it is. And if you want it, there's what we can do with the workers, and they're in a week's bases to see what their daily reality is. To see. Let's go and see where the situation is. And excellence, excellence, recognizes the workers, Mrs Lete, because they do vices with the resources and in the conditions in which they work, vices. Eta beraiei esker, beraien heuresfortzuari esker, 2019ko abenduaren 31n beraiek bizkarrean hartu zuten zerbitzua éa tenantu zuten... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] Thanks to them, on the 31st of December, 2019, they held the service on their backs and kept it, when theirs was no longer theirs, when the government was in charge. And you've been talking about sensitivity to workers. Sensibility is to the working people when they don't pay attention and they're in trouble now, not Gibraltar−, when they're in trouble to get nominatives and the funk doesn't do the right thing for everybody's money instead of injecting money at which concepts I don't know. What kind of management is that? What kind of management is that? Gibraltar's been the cake's gin. But to see what model of management there is here, because there's no control, because there's no inspection, you're talking about lack of control and access. Let me give you another example. Look, now there's a new cabin building built up in that new building where a space would be made for an ambulance wall, a garage. In the meantime, they were in another place. Oh, they didn't! Where'd the control go? In a new building, it's 2022. Don't you say 'exgestion'? Qé gestion? Later, more. To see the pattern. You see, the clinical history is affecting us patients, the attention they still do in emergencies is not recorded in clinical history, and when the patient arrives or the hospital, they need to start all over again. Is that normal? No, it's not normal, it's not normal. And we have these instances over and over again, and what we have been trying to show what situation we have in our troubles and what management is, and what results this brings us to. And you keep what you propose, and what you propose is el Control, la inspección que tenemos actualmente; Then a ver. If something doesn't work, let's see what doesn't work, let's go straight and change the pattern of management. And what we propose is to prove, they begin to do in other communities, because we stay behind in great distresses, which we do not know. Rioja, Navarre, they've all started, and the results are better. Why not us? I understand that companies are interested in the profits, but what is the interest in this government in keeping this model of management? What is it? I understand that this government has to be the end of its health. And, inevitably, the workers must work on suitable conditions, the bases must be the right way, the ambulances must be the right way. And to conclude, yes what I meant to say is, to Mr Gil, if for you the public services are communism, the same, the same the problem of location you have. So it seems to me, in truth, that the subject deserves a deep revision, a deep revision, because we are in the presence of a service of death or life. Even the people who work out the usual emergency problems and the unusual ones. See what happened at the Horseland. How many hours the first step was lost because it had been wrong in the emergency, the hours were lost. And in emergencies the hours are very important, and time is very important. So, let's go over all this management, please, and check this out. And that's all we're asking for. Thank you, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u15	Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'll start by saying Mrs. Lete, there hasn't been an attempt to agree. There hasn't been, because you didn't even want to hear our transaction. Therefore, it is not that they were concerned about the strict legality of the terms, it is that they do not even know what we wanted to put and what we wanted to remove, because they have had no interest in (...). Moreover, there has been an explicit interest in not having it. I don't know exactly why, but let's be true to the truth. Okay? The case is that then, when we see your group's amendment, we are a little surprised, because it says... the first of the points says that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in the area of competition and in compliance with the legislation in force, to take the appropriate actions to ensure that the debt to the UTE is paid". In other words, the Basque Government is also urged to take action to settle the debt. Hey, I'm sorry, aren't you guys doing it? Aren't they already being realized? Because this is a little surprising. That is to say, does the Basque Government need Parliament - that is, that you yourselves - to urge them to take some action to ensure that the debt is paid? Does that mean they're not currently being done? I don't understand this part. The truth is, no one understands her at all, right? And it's just, you know, I think in these... We can continue with the amendment, because it is a whole collection of such assertions. But I believe that here we must distinguish well between the past of this subject and the future. I say the past, you have to do exactly what happened, so that it doesn't happen again. And what has happened, from my point of view, is that this is an example of the mismanagement of the Basque Government. And this we can disguise as we want, we can put the excuses that you want, but I think this is obvious. Let's see if it turns out now that Brexit's guilty are the gentlemen up here. That is, when an award is made, it is very good that the legality is fulfilled, it is essential. And it's very good that everything is done... that the laws are complied with, but it is not enough; moreover, the award must be made to an undertaking which, at the very least, ensures that the service can be given. I mean, I do have the feeling that legality has been fulfilled, of course, but I do not have the feeling that this has been done with care, with the level of excellence and with the level of quality that this deserves. There is, therefore, an important margin for improvement in the quality of management, in responsibility and in commitment on your part. And, of course, it's that what we're living with all this is that, in fact, emergencies are poorly managed. Maybe we can go beyond that. And as we have said on some occasion, Osakidetza is wrong... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... with all this is that, in fact, Emergencies is poorly managed. Maybe we can go beyond that. And as we have already said on some occasion, Osakidetza is mismanaged, because it is actually worrying about not complying with any illegality, which is essential for them to do, but it is not enough. We are working with something very sensitive that is the health of citizens, and there we need an excellent level of management. We must go beyond strict compliance with the law. And speaking of the past, well, the debate on models is perfectly understood. Finally, it is a debate that we have repeated here, Mr Hidalgo, many times. We have heard the usual retaliatory against private companies, that if investment funds, that if they make money, etc. And if that's not it, actually, it's that... well, it only works the public and the state. I think it is a debate in which it is not (?) That we go in, because I don't think it's going anywhere anymore. But speaking of the future, which is what I am concerned about, have the procedures been corrected so that this will never happen again? Have the measures been taken to ensure that the specifications include the conditions necessary for this to never happen again, for the Emergency Service to be given the quality, the resources, the means necessary, not the minimums with which it needs a level of management such as that which deserves this type of services? And it seems to me that this is still... I have not heard it, because, in fact, your amendment says that inspection and monitoring systems must be maintained to ensure that companies meet the conditions. No, look, it's not enough to keep, it's better. And it says the third of its proposals that it deepens the development of the coordination instruments, that it deepens and that they change, because, of course, they have been insufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos-Nozzer of the Animals, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u18	I do believe that we are talking about model differences, here and in many places, you yourself have said it, Mr Gil Vegas, here we have discussed this issue many times. I in this legislature and in the previous one with your colleague from the People's Party, in this case Mr Damborenea, and you will continue to argue, because they are two models, they are two models that have different support between the parties, between the political parties, and of course, my group will never give up that debate and push the management of the public administration towards that model without falling into the demagogy and caricaturizations that you make of our speech. You've never heard me say that all companies do it wrong, at no time have you ever heard me say it. In the matter on which we are discussing, there is, of course, one thing that does not convince me, which is to relieve the Basque Government of its responsibilities. I have listened to the PNV spokesman and it seems that the fault is exclusively Brexit and the company. Of course, we do not exempt the company from liability, and that is why I too, in our intervention, am talking about the bad practices of the companies and about the bad practices of this UTE in this case. But the Government has a responsibility, it has a political responsibility. And, of course, something I am absolutely convinced of. If the government has done everything right, and the result is this, it is clear that this model, this model that you defend and that you say it is good, is a real cod, a real cod, because it is unable to avoid something as simple, as simple as that the workers receive their wages for the work done, something as simple when the resources to pay those wages come from the public coffers, because the company pays the wages, but they come from the award, which is paid by the public coffers, with what is collected from the taxes, we have heard the collection of the last few years. Why do these workers who provide a public service continue to claim wages here three years later. That model doesn't work. It is an authentic cobbler, and of course the agreements are important, I agree with what Mr Rico says. I believe that they are now negotiating the renewal of the Autonomic Ambulance Convention, and I hope that they will achieve a good agreement, and indeed, it was very important that we should be ultra active in labour reform, but we also know, and we know it in this sector, that with existing agreements many companies are not complying with the conventions. There are constant conflicts in many sectors, but in this particular area there are constant conflicts, because sometimes the conventions are not complied with. In what part of the agreement it says that you can stay three years without paying the wages of the workers. So, the problem here isn't the convention, that's what they and they fight, and they're fighting it. Here the problem is one of a company and one of a government, which has the greatest responsibility, which is why it doesn't matter, Mr Rico, it doesn't matter the model. Indeed, the one that is in force must guarantee the quality of service, but it does not happen, it does not happen. And it doesn't matter, I invite the Socialist Party to speak clearly in favour of a public model for ambulances in Euskadi, in La Rioja we are doing it..., we are doing it together. I understand that you are part of a government that has specific agreements and that this is certainly not on the agenda, because the PNV is not in favour of that model. I do not know the Socialist Party, but I believe, and of course my coalition does, that when it is part of a government, the commitments within that government are fulfilled, from that agreement, but it does not give up explaining its own positions and operating also within the government to convince, in this case, its government partners that that other model is better, and above all, it is better in Basquedi, because we are seeing the negative consequences of the model. This case is just one example, and I regret perhaps bringing the debate to the model issue, because I know that what is most worrying the workers at this time is to collect the wages they have earned with (?), his salary, and of course, I add that this has to be resolved now. But I also know, because we have spoken with them many times, that ambulance workers are the first to be convinced that the best model would be a public model. And I really appreciate it, because they prove that I don't... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... ambulance workers are the first to be convinced that the best model would be a public model. And I really appreciate it, because they show that they don't look only at them, that they look at society as a whole, because we are talking about a first-class health area and therefore it has to be a public service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u19	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u20	Thank you, President. Mr Hernandez, not Hidalgo, Mr Hernandez of Elkarrekin We can. I see that every time you come up to this rostrum you have a certain obsession with the role of the Socialist Party, and it also makes sites that, frankly, do not take place for a reason. I think I have been clear enough here on the issue of publishing. I was when there was an appearance on this subject in the Balearic Islands and I have been in the meetings I had with the workers. And I've always said the same thing, which is what my party says. We value what is being done in different autonomous communities. We understand that, of course, we have to be careful. The Socialist Party does not give up anything. Moreover, the Socialist Party in some autonomous communities is putting this on. Okay. We, at the moment, are not the majority in the autonomous communities, and we value it. And we'll have to see... And I think there's nothing wrong with seeing how it goes to those who are putting it on, to see if you can bring it or not. That is what the Socialist Party says. We have said this every time we have expressed our opinion in private and in public. First. I would like you to look at the promises of Podemos in many of the municipalities, when it arrived in 2015, of publishing services, and when by chance it got the mayors..., well, by chance, because they voted them, they got the mayors, where did they leave them? And there without co-government agreements with other parties. You guys. There it goes, reports say... There it goes, how about... And with the public service workers who had promised gold and Moorish in front of them. And they've lost town halls. Well, that's where I leave it. Look at you guys a little bit inside. Mrs Ubera, no, you're not in the government, but you seem to be in the judiciary. Because it is that the subsidiary civil liability is not decided by you, nor by me, eh, nor by me; it has to be decided by a court, a court. Well, it looks like you're now a member of the General Council of the Judiciary. And, of course, you don't give a damn about brexit. You don't care that this would have happened the same if the firm were in London or Manchester. He doesn't care. This is anecdotal, this is nothing. And the brexit seems to have been provoked by us. Well, no. He doesn't care if he comes here two weeks ago to say that the inspectors don't do their job. And then, in a deadly twist in logic, he asks me for more inspectors. Great. It's all super-reasonable, all super-reasonable, all super-reasonable. And I'm going to make my own mistake, Mr. Gil. It is also my fault that there is no compromise amendment with you, because my conception of public services is not the same as yours. And then here's my fault. Yeah. It's just not the same. And here I'm going to make a parenthesis, Mr. Vegas. Because you have spoken about some issues that I think are important. And you are the representative of Citizens, but here you are the representative of the People-Citizens Group. I come from the General Councils of Bizkaia, I've been there for a few years and I've taken the hacienda issues. I can assure you that every time we have put forward some progress to see..., and it's difficult, you have to say that technically it's very difficult, the issue of tax havens and hiring with companies that have some of their accounts in tax havens, which we've never had next door is the People's Party, uh. And I do the parenthesis because you're a citizen's representative and I think that's where we could understand each other. But who we've never had at our side is the People's Party. And I admit it's technically very difficult, it's technically very difficult. But even when we have promoted these areas, the PP has told us no. So, of course, coming here to say certain issues, for man, as a representative of Citizens, is good; but if it is as a representative of the People-Citizens group, I cannot admit it. The workers are right - and with this I conclude - in their claim. The Basque Government has to be there to make the recovery of what is owed to you effective, legitimately due to you. And the Basque government is going to be there. This hasn't worked since Mrs. Ubera brought you here. That's not true. You can see in all the documentation how the Basque Government has been demanding these payments for months now. They have encountered difficulties, it is true, the difficulties arising from the Brexit. But I say to you that the collection of those amounts that you owe must be guaranteed. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mrs. Lete, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u22	Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, I'm not going to do an exercise in putting on the second cheek, but, nevertheless, I reiterate my thanks to Gil Vegas, Mr. Gil Vegas, on behalf of PP-Citizens. And I would like to tell you that it is not a small thing that we say in our amendment. The Government is urged, not because it does not do so, but because it has to continue to do so, and because, if there are added difficulties, the workers must know that it is going to... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... The Government is urged, not because it does not do so, but because it must continue to do so, and because, if there are added difficulties, the workers must know that it will continue to do so, trying. In their proposal, they said that judicial claims were made. It's something the government doesn't do. Judicial claims are made by the workers, and we respond to the judicial body. Mr Hernandez, public money is to be managed with... lehendakariak askotan esaten du: zintzotasunez, zorroztasunez eta zuzentasunez. That's how it's handled. Therefore, paying wages that are not the responsibility of the Government cannot be done. That's why you can't do it. The time will come when, of course, if the Government is responsible for solidarity, it must respond to that judicial claim. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Many of the opposite groups in the opposition that was playing the release bet required to avoid the pattern of publication, which (... ), it is a system, it cannot be denied, it is not the only, nor is the best of itself; it will have its own problems, and its advantages, as all systems have. The cooperation of the private public system is deeply rooted in our territory, and this is the chosen system. The advantages of this kind are considerable, and our strength has been in several parts; in education, in society, in enterprises, in study, in innovations, and all that. Companies offer expertise, experience, knowledge, and the ability to adapt to new situations and seek innovative solutions. In a changing world such as this - in the pandemic we have seen - this system offers expertise, and guardianship, coordination, organization from the public institution is undeniable, which ensures that the service is continuously monitored, to offer improvements. And this is one of the keys to our proposal: that the possible improvements that the system offers be kept under review. One thing is that the service is public responsibility - which it is, which it is, and it is undeniable - and another is that it must be provided with its own workers. We are all aware of the great trajectory and roots that public-private collaboration has in our territory, and that is what has been wanted to explore. Perhaps he has no experience of our own in other societies, and has no experience of ours, and ought to be drawn from a heaven; it is not our case, our case, and we have him in Devata, Madam Ubera, we have a great deal of examples about him. I should also like to comment that the collective agreement reached by the workers in 17-18 - I do not know exactly the date - produced a great deal of wage improvements in this area, and that is the way. And that also led to a substantial increase in the government's budget for this service. 2020, 21 and 22 will have an additional EUR 34 million to meet this service. Horren harira, hirugarren puntua, gure proposemenaren hirugarren puntua. And finally, to finish it, EH Collecte introduced a half-way proposition, and I, to be honest, Mrs. Ubera, I don't see the middle course, the middle correction, from my point of view, is to do something in the middle of the road. If they were here and it's still further, well, de cara a la quail, but I don't think there was really a good intention behind it. In the former law, when I was in town, one of your party, well, party, said to me, "Well, Elena, if I want your refusal, I'm very easy, I've put it high, and I've got it; but how I'm going to get it, I won't do it." In your case, I don't know what your intention is, whether you put a very high level or really agree. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. Now that the discussion is over, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together we'll have the middle-direction signed by Podemos Edemos-Nozera. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u24	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 6; the opponents are 67; Abstenations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u25	So it's not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucaian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 40; the opponents are 34; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u26	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mation, introduced by the member of the Ciudadans, Laura Garrido Knörr Eusula, a member of the Cnicans, in the measure of repairing the deficiencys of the Osa. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] Mrs Garrido, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. The chief physician, the Erkorek, Mr. Arriola, and the congressmen, good day. Well, gaur...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u29	We filed a motion after an interpelation. We think it's very convenient to discuss this motion at the moment. The last two years... Oh, or pandemy... It looks like we're at the end of the palace. We have to say that these years have been very hard and that we are now in a new situation, but we must also say that we must maintain all preventive measures. At this moment, it is essential to make an evaluation, whether the measures taken to examine have been effective or not, and thus we must take up the new measures which are required to prevent such a situation, with a better or better condition. As I said, it has been hard, complicated years - these two years - in which the light is finally glimpsed at the end of the tunnel. However, we cannot fail to appeal to individual and collective responsibility, and above all to maintain as citizens the necessary preventive measures, because still, as we have repeated many times, the virus is out there and can spread all its effects and with all its virulence. We have certainly come to a more favourable situation in which, as I said, the light was seen at the end of the tunnel, and we can say that it has been thanks to the fact that a large part of the population are immunized, the group immunity that we so longed for as a society has been achieved. And in that sense, then, we must put on the table the success of vaccination and the effectiveness of vaccination in dealing with this virus. But, at this time, we also have to say - and we have pointed out this, and we told it the other day by the adviser himself in the question that we put to him and that he causes this motion - that it was necessary at this time to take stock of the actions taken, an assessment, to check whether the measures that have been taken during these years by the Basque Government have actually been effective, the measures or the non-measures taken, and, if necessary, to take the appropriate decisions in order to be better prepared in a similar situation in the future. That is why we call for an independent and external assessment of all the measures - as I have said - that have been put in place to see their effectiveness, and that we should now respond, once and for all, to the question that many citizens - I believe that the vast majority of Basque citizens - have asked themselves over these two years: why have we been at the head of the contagion index in Basquedi, with the most severe restrictions, continuously, systematically? Why even other self-restricted communities, because they decided on the basis of their corresponding organs, or other self-restricted communities that decided to ease their restrictions when this issue was not decided in Euskadi, have they had much less contagion than in Euskadi? What happened in Euskadi to be continually - as I said, all the time - at the head of the number of contagions? In my reply to the Counsellor -- two weeks ago, at the Friday monitoring plenary -- the Counsellor replied that an external evaluation had been carried out. Well, we have no record of this evaluation, of that evaluation, we do not know whether it is so or not; we will not doubt the word of the counselor, obviously. But as we do not know, we have no record of it, we ask for that independent and external evaluation. We think it is very important not only that it be an external evaluation, but that it be absolutely independent, to know exactly, clearly, the actions that have been carried out by the Basque Government. And, on the other hand, we also think it important that this assessment be forwarded to the Basque Parliament, so that we can get to know it and debate it even in this House. From this Illus, we think at the moment that −bi years later, − is useful for doing this evaluation, that it is necessary and that it should be introduced into the legislature. The Chief Department said, when he answered that my interpelation in this legislature was made of this evaluation, but it has not reached the legislature, and from that point we demand that we make the evaluation and send it to the legislature. As for the tracking network, well, we believe that its operation is clearly improved; that it has been endowed with few resources; that it could not find the focus of the contagion, and thus cut off the transmission of the virus. It was dismantled early, and then, when it was wanted to start again because the situation required it, in a new wave, it was dismantled, and it was practically necessary to start not from scratch, but not with the speed that the situation required it could be operating that tracking network. We also want to analyse the effectiveness of mass screenings because it has been a general focus of the Department of Health at times. We doubt their effectiveness, if they have served anything, because, rather, they have also been able to be dissuasive that a particular population has gone to carry out the corresponding tests in these massive screenings, especially for fear of being told that it was positive, and especially in very specific groups, because of the very job situation of those who were doing these tests... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... especially for fear of being told that it was positive, and especially in very specific groups because of the very job situation of those who were doing these tests. With regard to the vaccination process, here we have to say that, apart from the criteria established at state level within the framework of the Interterritorial Health Council, in the Public Health Commission also with the Autonomous Communities, with the Ministry of Health, planning is a competence of the Basque Government, and there has been no effective management of this matter. It was hard to pull, we were going last for many months. For not remembering also here the episode of irregular vaccinations. And we also have to say that many sectors of the population, especially the most vulnerable, have nothing more to do with the specific area of residences or the area of dependent persons, especially the large dependent persons, grade III not institutionalized, that is to say those people who have a great dependence, but who are not in fixed care resources, well, because that vaccination, as we denounce here also through initiatives and questions to the department, because it did not occur with the required speed. Questions also remain to be resolved with regard to the vaccination of some groups, vaccination of age groups such as the 30-year-olds, who have failed to achieve the objectives they were pursuing, and also the child vaccination that has been slowing down. In that regard, we have also called for specific campaigns aimed at specific groups. Txertoari prozesuari buruz esan behar dugu gauzak ez say it on the egg, eta hemen argi dago gauzak hobetu behar say it. As to our first attention, we have seen how there has been trouble, especially lack of resources and lack of professionals. In relation to Primary Care, a problem has arisen with all its virulence, in all its dimension, that was there, which was the deficit that we have especially of personnel, professionals, human resources in Primary Care. A problem we've been dragging around for a long time. We have already demonstrated this when the primary care strategy was developed, which we have continually called for its revision, even before this pandemic appeared. And now we believe that it is necessary, also in the face of the protests of the professionals, the concentrations, the continuous complaints also of the users themselves, well, to realize, apart from a revision of this strategy, an imminent plan in the field of Primary Care. It must not be forgotten that it is the gateway to the health system. The delays have also been a constant, and also an issue that has been put on the table, which should also be analysed in that evaluation, which is the whole follow-up of chronic patients, which has obviously also been affected. We were told by the counsellor that retired staff were hired for the processing of job losses. Hiring this staff is fine, but it's late. I want to say that these issues also of pulling out certain personnel, such as retired medical personnel, could have been done before. Nor have the experts been counted on. We don't say it, the experts themselves say it. We have had the opportunity to listen, to read numerous testimonies in this regard over these two long years. The role of the Committee on Infectious Diseases, no matter how much the counselor tells us, has been practically irrelevant in epidemiological surveillance units, as they have not been used, as they could have been used. Resources of these characteristics and professionals from specific fields, who have also expressed their complaints of having been the great forgotten, who had much to say during all these months. We also have to comment, as we have done on other occasions, that there has also been a lot of change of opinion, of hesitation, which has generated great confusion and confusion in the citizenry. And I'm going to put two fairly obvious examples, as they are what it has to do with diagnostic tests, which are PCRs. It was the option... was the choice chosen by the Basque Government, by Osakidetza, by the Department of Health at the most complicated times, and the antigen test, its use was generalized at the end of the sixth wave, according to the counselor herself, because it was won quickly and the workload of Primary Care was relieved. I think that here there was a change of opinion, and obviously, if it was so good to make antigens, at times when we were as we were, with a great saturation of the health system, and really tense, it is when we had to have seen the desirability of resorting to this kind of testing and not at the end, as other autonomous communities, such as the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which was criticized precisely for resorting to diagnostic tests of antigens. With regard to the covid passport, we also have to remember that the Basque Government was super reluctant, I am not going to enter into the effectiveness of that measure, but to put it in place earlier, as other autonomous communities did, and especially if it was thought that it had a direct effect on vaccination. In short, we believe that it is time for the review of what has been done, the evaluation of the measures taken and those that have not been taken, and above all, it is time for self-criticism, to learn from the mistakes so as to be better prepared for the future in similar situations. In that regard, I would like to reiterate, although I have already referred to the issues raised in our motion, the need for such an independent external assessment. It seems that it is there, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party in their amendment also refer to it being referred to Parliament, but since we have no record of it, we have requested it and it is being presented in the Basque Parliament. We call for the strengthening of the Epidemiology Units and the Epidemiology Service of the Public Health Directorate. We also ask you to take into account a report prepared by the Advisory Council for Emerging Infectious Diseases of Euskadi in 2019, concerning, in addition, a very important report on the organizational capacity of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in situations of epidemiological alert... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] In addition, a very important report on the organisational capacity of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in situations of epidemiological alert. We call for a very important issue now, now that there is going to be a lot of social interaction, and in closed spaces, for protocols to be guaranteed, protocols to be adopted and technical indications given to ensure air renewal, as well as facilitating the installation of CO2 fans and meters in these closed spaces. Finally, as I said in my speech, we also ask for a review of the Primary Care Strategy, with a diagnosis of the needs of staff and materials, in order to remedy the many deficiencies detected. Also an action plan - an issue that we believe is relevant - to ensure the assistance, early diagnosis and follow-up of patients with covid pathology, as well as all necessary awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns. And I shall end, Madam President, by referring to the amendments tabled. I'm starting with the government. Well, some points we can share, but it seems to us that it remains a little short, in the sense of what I have pointed out earlier, that a more rigorous assessment, a more thorough analysis of the measures taken would be desirable. And with those presented by EH Bildu and Podemos we have points in common, and obviously we will vote accordingly. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u31	Good morning again. At the beginning of this point, we wish to support all the workers who are keeping public health, and we wish, as we have said before, to attempt to maintain the public health and to make proposals to strengthen it; for, with an offer of protection, and grateful words, are not enough. And that's why what we're trying to say is that we're gonna be next to them, because we see, that all our efforts finally produce results. Sometimes it takes a lot of trouble to get those results, sometimes they don't belong to the right ones, but then we see things moving, otherwise we can see the last movement in the Medical Department in front of mobilization and Gregor's. Then let them say that the Gregors are of no use, but that when he has seen that the Medical Department has moved from July to predict that he will fulfill the development of his profession which he has signed with the unions, which he has hitherto been in a state of delay and flight. In saying this, we must say that when we read the P.P.A.'s proposal, we were a little surprised, because we saw him in the last two years, and that in the last few months he's taken points of many initiatives that EH Collect has made, and he's taken part with these points. So, of course, we agree with what Poppsa plans. Hence we are more focused on our corrections at this moment, on the one hand, on the short −, of course, to collect what we ought to do with pandemia, and on the other hand to collect the measures of strengthening the two columns which are essential to our public health system: on the one hand, the first attention, and on the other the section of the Public Health Administration, which is located in the epidemic. We are all conscious that we are plunged in a new stage of panic and that it requires us to conform to the strategy. But this strategy requires necessarily to strengthen the prevention and surveillance system of the most vulnerable collective and wastelands. We have to put the focus on it now, because the most vulnerable people with the virus in the hospitals are found in the centers and housing houses of misery. But this does not mean, as has been done throughout the whole −pandemia, that we must reduce the rights of these persons, and that the action which is positive in their global health must not be limited, we cannot continue to do so; but that it means that to structure the system of their care, to rearrange them, to adapt the means, to adapt the protocols to them, to prevent the example from being useful and necessary to adapting their adaptations. And at this moment, there's a power to put the focus on it. And that's where we need to focus. And in the other areas, in order to penetrate into prevention and to be able to read the development, the SARS-CoV-2 viruss, and in general the plan of a special care for respiratory diseases, and the work of household training, by strengthening the public health system. For pandemia was at first much talked of public health, which had hitherto been excluded from the margin, and we all said that public health was to be strengthened by the direction of −emirology. But I don't know how long you've noticed that's been put aside again. We tried, we tried to get an alternative to female diseases and to face future pandemies as an alternative of law that has never been applied. But most of the people in this house didn't want to, and a law of no use was accepted, and it was fun that he hadn't dared to force. Because if it were in force, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, almost everything would be closed. Well, I'm sorry, at least the antipandemy law served to give an account of the Medical Department once a week at the Medical Committee, which at least served to do so, although the medical Department didn't want to explain the reasons for the Medical Department to cancel its emergency, we haven't been able to find out which strategy the new phase is following... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we have not even received an explanation on the new phase which strategy is following and which means it will place the health department. But yet, I want to know that we've made a request, so we can see the new phase of the Medical Department's strategy. The only thing we know is that the government, this time in councils, has re-entered the emergency of health, and that the new order has been introduced into action, according to the usual course of the same order, has left the responsibility to the rest. We don't even have the EHU evaluation report of the independent group of pandemary management to the end of 2020, so we've asked for several times, and the answer is always done. So it's normal that the lessons you gave me were difficult to put into strategy, even though it's come out of the government's pandemia again and again. However, we have a report that was very interesting, very good, in December 2019, expert and trained in pandemia's veterinology, which infections, various stimulants of the existence of Osa, had made together, a very good document, which planned a reorganization, so that the epidemic could be resisted to the yadamis. And we proposed, based on this report, that we could form a positivity, a potential epidemic, a infection in which we could face pandemies, but that wasn't possible either. But no doubt it's time to strengthen public health as a whole... And not only from the ideological view: To give an effective answer. It's time for Osabast's first attention, because it can't continue to get rid of everything that isn't COVID-19, because it's still on the side, because it can't continue without commitments in the Onkology, because it can't continue to postpone the diagnostics and perpetuate the situation. At first all this might have been understandable, wouldn't it? while planning and organising. But the health department has not been able to do it in the first three months of 2022, after two years, even in the right way. And that produced a tremendous problem and anger in the integrated sanitarian institutions. He's had a lot of suggestions from the Medical Department, starting from the legislature, to address them in shared management mode, which is better than sharing browns. Not really. It hasn't even been a chance to share brown because everything is taken as an attack. for if they are demanded of the Oracles, they are required, because if they are made, they are too many. In spite of the social situation, during the two years of communication, I'm so full of − that only one person on the street sees himself in free space or in a car with FFP2. Pues, it's not normal. But in the end we are all losers: institutions, delegates, politics... In the meantime, the attention of the health quality of the people's health has been diminished by the fact that health workers can't help it any longer. Getting the presence of a query is getting harder and harder, and that the deal that our age is getting doesn't have a name because of the digital cracks. I know you're taking all we've done wrong, and that's how you try not to take any initiative even in the medical committees, but we've tried to do it. We have tried, and have made many efforts to contribute, sometimes better and sometimes worse. We've tried, before the pandemia began officially, to start the organizational tasks; we've tried to force the management of the pandemia to be shared; we've tried to work two months before the waves, to modulate the waves; we've tried to build alternatives for the citizens who were out of the channel of production. We tried, but... In the budget, also, I end with this −, we made an effort to make him a bigger investment for our first priority of attention. And we managed to get 30 million more. We know it's not much, but there's more than nothing. Now this agreement must be carried out quickly and well: It's urgent, because they can't wait anymore. And we will try to work out the taxing, the Ogage, in the frame it has, the priority of health workers and unions, to advance and manage the necessary measures at this moment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is the representative of the Animal Party, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. From our political space we have demonstrated on several occasions our will to, in the framework of the pandemic, reach agreements and transfer to the citizenry a message of unity, when society faced unforeseen, serious and tragic problems, as this pandemic has been. A demonstration of this will was the agreement of the anti-pandemic law, and the support of virtually all the measures that served to mitigate the contagion in situations of absolute uncontrollability. With all the necessary caution, no one escapes that it seems that the contagions and gravity are diminishing. Now this government has to undertake another task: to strengthen Basque public health, starting from the base, which is not another but those units that will help us prevent similar situations in the future. And this is where we see it essential to strengthen the capacity of the epidemiological surveillance service of Osakidetza in the face of future warnings, because, at various times, during these two years, it has not been given the importance it could have, and with too much urgency it has reduced the number of trackers that were needed. Therefore, we believe that, in view of the future, this surveillance unit must be boosted and must be provided with the necessary resources... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... that they were necessary. That is why we believe that, in the future, this surveillance unit must be boosted and given the necessary resources so that we can achieve quality preventive health. The ability to get ahead of this pandemic during this time, as I said, has failed. Throughout the successive waves of this crisis we have been acting late. The first wave overflowed us and the deficiencies of the material were seen. In the successive waves there have been other kinds of problems, such as the lack of trackers, logistical problems in vaccination, the contradiction in messages, and it is that this pandemic has put... if anything has put above the table, it is the rather important mandate, which is the one that cannot be saved in Public Health. It's obvious that in the decade... In the years following the crisis, there have been only cuts, and this has passed the bill to the Health System. As I said before, we are in the last few months of a pandemic, and although the data show that it is gradually being transmitted, new daily cases continue to appear, and nothing assures us that there may be repuntes. And before them, we must be prepared, and what better preparation than the evaluation of the documents and protocols that have been developing during these two years. COVID-19 has led to the adoption of measures of unprecedented social and economic stalemate, which have had a very significant impact on the quality of people in the population, and has significantly increased social inequalities in health. Not all population groups have suffered the pandemic in the same way. This pandemic has had sex, this pandemic has been old, and has also had social classes. And these factors must be in the assessments to be carried out in the future. At all times, for one cause or another, as I said before, we are late. And although the problems have been solved, these solutions have often fallen on the back and on the will of the professionals themselves, and we believe that the time has come to make a thorough assessment of what measures have been positive and what measures have been negative and have not worked. That is why, from our parliamentary group, we believe that an external report is needed to review the effectiveness of the measures taken during the different ones alone, with the aim of dealing with future epidemiological crises with the duties already carried out. The positive ones, I suppose, will already be introduced into the protocols. That is why I think it is more important to see the dysfunctions that have occurred at all times. For this pandemic, as has been said before, has hit very hard in the Basque Country, more severely than in other communities, despite the fact that stricter measures have also been taken here than in other communities. On specific measures that our group has promoted, and we believe it is very effective, is that of the placement of CO2 meters in interior spaces. It's a measure that's proven. It is a measure, it is known that ventilation of enclosed spaces is an effective measure. Opening windows, doors, acts effectively against the virus, and this measure is not only endorsed by the World Health Organization, it has been applied insistently in schools, we do not know if so in the rest of public institutions and buildings, I do not know if they have had windows and doors as open as schools and poor children. In Osakidetza it is necessary personal, because the existing one is not enough to cover the needs. An illustrative case of these is the guards, which should be three, the optionals should do three guards a month. But when we talk to the health workers and the health workers we are told that they do not make less than five, and this is the result of poor planning and a lack of professionals. As we have also reiterated in the Health Committee, the failures of Osakidetza are not short-term due to the pandemic, but are structural in nature. The pandemic has only made them manifest. And the unions have calculated that in order to cope with the pandemic, it is necessary to create at least 5,000 new jobs, of which 1,000 should go to primary care, and it is necessary to reduce the temporality in the current workforce from 58% to 8%. The benefits offered by Osakidetza are not a political decision, they are a political decision, forgiveness. And it is a decision that depends directly on the annual budget of the Public Health Service. However, this budget is becoming more and more full of private tenders. We have just learned that the Strategic Health Plan has been commissioned by an external consultant, LKS. And in this situation we ask ourselves: does there not exist in Osakidetza officials with sufficient knowledge, years of experience who can draw up a report and an analysis of the perspectives of the Public Health System in the future?, does a private company have to do so? This is further evidence that the problem is the model. It is a privatizing model, and it is no longer privatized just what can be cleaning or kitchens, which have been privatized for many years. Ambulances are now also being privatized, which have been discussed before, interventions also to interrupt pregnancy, and also the very functions of the Government. If we stick to this line, shouldn't we also vote for the consultants to... What are the ones responsible for making these reports? In these months of pandemics, it has also been shown that all links in the health system are essential. But a separate case is the problems of various kinds that have been dragging primary care for years. Primary Care is if not one of the most strained units in the Health System, one of the services that has suffered the most from overload because of the covid, and this is due to a lack of forecast that the doctors themselves have repeatedly denounced for years. And looking for a little bit in the hemeroteca I met with two news reports from 2017, which say: "Two hundred and sixty Basque doctors come together to denounce the precariousness in primary care." "We primary doctors have no strength, no age, no desire to continue doing overtime." It's news from 2017, many years before it started... that the pandemic would come to our lives. The burden of work, as well as the lack of human resources, are the causes that prevent them from carrying out their work under adequate conditions. These are recurring problems that this collective has been facing for years... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... which prevents them from performing the work under appropriate conditions. These are recurring problems that this group has been facing for years. And the workload translates into delays. And it is not normal for society to assume as usual that a patient who asks for an appointment and has to wait days to be attended to, just as it is also not normal to have to wait in a waiting room for hours to be received by a doctor. So if we have shown anything in this pandemic, during these two years, it is that society has a lot of patience: it has patience to be vaccinated, it has patience to be cared for. And it has also been shown that Osakidetza's staff loves their work. You'll tell me how many retirees get back to work if it's not for supporting your classmates. And from here, I want to take advantage of and send a thank you to the staff of Osakidetza, of course, and, in particular, to the Radio Diagnosis Service, in which I work from time to time and I know that they have passed it very hard and have given the callo properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u34	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u35	Thank you, President. Well, today we have two very similar debates in this plenary: in point three, the motion resulting from the inquiry that we are going to have today; and in point five, which was a pnl recorded by Elkarrekin We can before the motion, but, well, by the rules that we have in this Parliament, because they have gone at the same time. Out of respect for the groups, we wanted to diversify the amendments. And I will try not to repeat ideas in both debates, but advance them that it will be absolutely impossible, because I think it will be impossible on the part of each and every one of us. And besides, it's going to sound like something, and it's going to sound like a lot. Because this motion before us today is not so much a sum of amendments from other groups, Mrs Ubera, but is the sum of two points to an amendment by the Group of the European People's Party which was tabled in September and which was discussed in that plenary. Okay. The context. We all know that. I'm going to repeat it too, I'm not going to be the only one here who doesn't talk about the context. The pandemic has affected us in all areas of our lives, and obviously the health sector, on a pandemic issue, is not going to be an exception to that condition. Measures have been taken, which have been of one intensity or another according to the degree of pandemic evolution itself. And the current situation is optimistic, because of the obvious improvement of the data: in three weeks the contagions have fallen - as you know - by 89%; those who entered the plant, by more than 52; and those who entered the ICU, by 33%. And that optimism, that obvious improvement in the data, I think it also allows us to be optimistic about the progressive recovery of welfare normality, something we have always defended from the Socialist Party. Yesterday, a series of data were given - which also point in the same direction -: the recovery of the surgeries is already 100% in the morning; 80% in the afternoon, with about 500 per day. In addition, the number of calls to be answered is being normalized: from 70,000 a day, they have risen to 30,000, exceeding the number of calls to be answered by more than 90%. And we are approaching the recovery of indulgence, which is already around 50%. And this is a moment of opportunity. I agree that this is a moment of opportunity, and I will develop it, if I may, more in the fifth part of this plenary. And now I am going to focus on the analysis of the ensuing motion for an inquiry raised by the People's Group. And as for this court, we must start coming with a lawyer, for I am going to do a tour of each of the initiatives, but with documents, so that they do not tell me that we ask you - as you have already told me in some debate, Mrs Garrido - acts of faith. No, I have come today with documents, to try –like this comes from my catechist stage – not to evangelize, but to convince. We started with the first point. An external and independent evaluation is called for for action and effectiveness. Allow me the evil, I don't know if this is asked where they rule. Well, actually, I know they don't ask where they rule. But, having said that, here, on many occasions and in many debates, we have heard that this assessment does not exist either in the Government of Spain or in the Basque Government. Good. "Health and communities launch the expert commission that will evaluate the management of the pandemic in Spain." 22 September 2021. As you know, this is underway, with the unanimous vote of all the autonomous communities, that is, also where the People's Party governs. As you know, in Euskadi, the Department has requested the UPV to prepare a management report for the first half of 2020, which we are aware of. No, we have no record. Yeah, we do have records. EH Bildu has asked several times about him. And we, the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, have registered a request to appear before the Commission at the time it is finished. Second point of his motion: the epidemiological surveillance units, the Epidemiology Service, i.e. the Directorate of Public Health, must be strengthened. Good. In the 2022 budgets, the increase in this direction was 10%, 9.69 to be exact; and by 2021, it had already grown by 38%. But also, if you see what we have at that second point and the priority objectives that are set out in the budget's own memo, on page 25 of the budget's volume, you will see that one of the priority objectives is the improvement of epidemiological surveillance plans, which you are putting to us today. And if you go to page 30, you will see how these improvements are made: to adapt and review the epidemiological surveillance systems and serious diseases, with a... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And if you go to page 30, you will see how these improvements are being implemented: adapting and reviewing epidemiological and serious disease surveillance systems, with an adapted COVID-19 surveillance protocol, adapted influenza surveillance systems, updated surveillance protocols, updated information and control systems and updated computer surveillance system. In the third point we are asked to take into account the report of the Advisory Council for Emerging Infectious Diseases of Euskadi 2019 to improve organizational capacity in case of epidemiological alert. And I'm going to tell you, yes, of course, and it has to be taken into account. It's precovid, that's what you've marked, it's an important thing. It is an early report, but one that can be learned from. And don't forget, it opens an opportunity in the law itself of Public Health, in the future law of Public Health. Fourth, protocols, technical indications for air renewal and facilitate CO2 installations. The representative of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita spoke of it. And it is true that your group has brought him to this Parliament, brought him to committee. And it is also true that we have reached a compromise amendment, which is this one here, on 14 March 2021. And you'll see that we all signed it, except for the People's Party, even though they voted for it, I'm not going to cheat on it. And if you go to the Osakidetza website, because you ask us to have publications, infographics, etc., etc., if you go to the Osakidetza website, you will see that the recommendations are published and you will see that the infographics are published. Point five and point six I'm leaving for the end. I'm going to move to seven, awareness-raising activities for young people. Well, the reality is they're being made, Mrs. Garrido. I didn't bring my cell phone, I left it there. But, if you want, I put the videos in which the Youth Council, together with the Youth Directorate of the Basque Government, raised the hashtag "always mask", "if you pass, you pass" of the Department of Education and we can see the specific campaigns that have also been made in Osakidetza. I tell you that they are in video format because, precisely because they are aimed at youth, they are aimed at social networks. And they're there, they're available to each and every one of us. I've left for the end of point six and point five. Point six is that of the persistent covid. We reflect this in our amendment. We've already discussed this here. And for us it is important to deepen the knowledge of the so-called persistent covid. You have spoken of strengthening the investigation, and it is important. But I would like to tell you that, as stated in the department's responses to this Parliament, there are several research projects in Euskadi integrated into the different national and international research networks, and in which more than 100 researchers from Biocruces, Bioaraba and Biodonostia are participating, together with CIC bioGUNE, UPV/EHU and Tecnalia. And with regard to the point of primary care, this I will leave essentially for the next point, for the point raised by Elkarrekin Podemos. But I do not do it for anything other than this, Mrs Garrido, is that a little while ago, very little, on 28 October 2021, the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party reached an agreement on primary care, October, which has not even been six months. Do we have to change positions? "The Basque Parliament, on the basis of respect for the field of competence", and I continue, "and the defence of the Plan on Primary Care defined and explained at the beginning of the legislature within the framework of the action programme of the Department of Health", in defence of that programme. The amendment went on, we were talking about the national strategy and we were saying that we were pleased that there were more MIR quotas in the family and community medicine specialty. But, of course, the problem when we come here with initiatives already raised in September is that we forget the agreements we reached in October. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u36	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u37	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. To start well, perhaps with waiting for a couple of hours, hour and a half, in which a GNP proposed by Elkarrekin will be carried out We can on health reinforcement, it would have been worth and we would have saved this debate, which, by the way, has emerged over this parliamentary term over and over again, the same in full as in each of the Councillor's appearances in the Health Committee. So it is no longer possible to think of new ideas to anyone, nor to me, which in principle would be the most relevant. [[Barres]] , because and you, and I come back to the beginning, you don't think of anything. And it is that the motion that you are making to us today is a copy, in the letter, of your amendments to various GNPs tabled by other groups a month ago, even the same as another amendment tabled in September, as Mr Rico has already said. So he copied it so strictly that he then had to correct it in the latter because it referred to budgets already completed. That is why, if I had waited for the next debate, we supported everything at the same time, which is probably what the Bureau should have approved if it had read above the proposals and their amendments. But, well, that's what we are for, to discuss and fill hours of a plenary, even though we only bring back ideas. Because you are insistent, though exclusively in a series of topics. And it is that I also feel in the need to reproach him, with affection, that I could have devoted a little more affection to the subject. Well, even if I repeat the same thing in proposals and amendments over and over again, I think... I don't know, semantics, lexicons and oratory allow complex combinations and floricultures to say the same thing in an infinite way of ways, and it may seem that even different things are said. But no, you, in your abulia, repeat the same ideas with the same words, even after the years. And that, I insist – at least from my point of view – deserves... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... you, in your abulia, repeat the same ideas with the same words, even after the years. And that, I insist – at least from my point of view – deserves a small reproach. Politics, Mrs. Garrido, is also to imagine: it is to turn around language, ideas and thought. But, well, maybe this is asking too much. And it is that the same text, exactly the same, is worth talking about strengthening health, how to manage the sixth wave, how to solve Osakidetza's deficiencies, or creating a commission of study on the pandemic. Actually, his ideology seems to be based more than a dynamic and imaginative thought, I don't know, on a photocopying thought. I think that the fact that someone has a concrete idea of what to do – which is already a lot to think about – and that he is rejected by the vote of representatives of Basque citizenship over and over again should lead him reasonably to change his strategy: to negotiate and move forward with his ideas argued in a different way; not to repeat himself mimetically. Because the logical thing is that, who didn't like it six months ago, the same thing still doesn't like it today. In any event, I believe that with what I have said before this motion, I have responded to your amendment of the next debate, which will save me time and a half to discuss with you. And already put into the flour of his repeated idea to satiety, I have tried to address it since his intervention in the interpellation origin of this motion - which is the same one he has had today -, and once again I met someone who only works to question everything, absolutely everything done by the Department of Health and Osakidetza, to convey the idea of permanent disconcert, disaster of management, of not giving one, of not knowing what has happened at every moment, and, especially, throughout this pandemic. What do you want me to say? Apart from the endless reproaches of Basque health throughout his speech, he has only sought his support beyond his own idea of the subject, and he did so in the speech two weeks ago, in a person in whom he refers as someone very important to talk about pandemics, such as Mr Bengoa, former Health Adviser to the Government; my respect - indeed - for Mr Bengoa, but you brought him to this Parliament. And all of a sudden, I have remembered - I don't know if you remember - a health commission in 2011, in which you and Mr Bengoa jointly gave a blow to Mr Inclán, a councillor in the previous legislature, who, in a previous pandemic of influenza A, declared as a pandemic by the WHO, Mr Inclán previewedly bought several million masks and gloves that, thanks to God, had not to be used to a large extent because the pandemic came very little here. Do you remember what they said? Look, I'm in case I'm gonna remind you. Mr. Bengoa said: "According to WHO, it is not recommended to use masks at work or at home, not even in the health field, except premature and urgent, so, if the previous government had done its duty, it would not have bought those masks." And you said, "It was an absolutely disproportionate purchase. We're worried about this waste. That this mismanagement of public resources will not occur again in the future." And, said this, do you come to tell the current government that you have done everything wrong and that you know what needs to be done? Well, man, I don't know if I trust much of what you tell us. In spite of everything, and even knowing that it won't work for almost nothing, because so many times the counselor and the members of her team have answered, I will try to beat him up something, but, yes, I already advance him that from a prepressive state and without any hint of success. But, well, for trying not to stay. A subject on which he insists over and over again is why there have been times here with more infected than elsewhere and with the most restrictive measures. Well, look, if we have more or less, that's always a questionable thing, and it depends on when and with whom we compare. What is logical reasoning, but Perogrullo's logic, is that when they have more cases the measures have to be tougher, because if we had more cases and softer measures you would be here criticizing that mildness of measures. If we had fewer cases, you would be here criticizing that they had been tested less. And if the measures were minimal, you would be accusing the government of playing with the health of the citizenry. That same thing gives you the same thing that happens and how you try to correct it, that to you, always as a concept, everything will seem wrong. Look, up and down has happened to all of Europe, to everyone: sometimes Euskadi has been above, others below, and other half pensioners. The measures taken were based on what was happening and on epidemiological, biological, sociological, analytical, and other advice, which made it experts in the field: those from within the LABI, from outside the LABI, from Osakidetza, from health, from the university or from where they went. If from there it seems to you that harmful ideas have emerged, disorientation in decision-making, I will not convince you otherwise, for the counselor and other posts of the Department have explained it to you a thousand times, and if they have not succeeded, what am I going to do?, a vulgar parliamentarian on foot to do so. LABI's advisers have been told by the adviser in this Chamber. The Department also considers what the Emerging Infectious Diseases Commission says or what the Epidemiology Network explains to it. But all that has already been said; there are even written answers, explaining technical-scientific reasoning for taking certain measures. And you keep asking. Is it because it does not answer or because based on holding a question as a drop (...) it intends to create structural doubts? I just don't know anymore. What obsession in questioning absolutely all that has been done and not one in considering that it has not been right in anything, as if what has happened here is horribly worse than in other places nearby or far away? And it is very easy, in the face of a situation of continuous alarm, and in the form of successive waves, to have ideas of what to do, to criticize what another does or what another asks, but to get to do, to manage, and to make decisions in the face of a pathology that comes to collapse health and (to endure?)). And that's not easy when you're in the engine room, but you're sucked when someone's like those people who watch public works as a spectator. And that's what's going on: that you've set out to be a spectator. Look, you can follow yours, that we will follow ours, and we will wait for the outcome of the independent evaluation on the response of our health system, that it will surely come soon, we will support the continuation of the primary care strategy that was proposed at the beginning of the legislature and that was ratified in two PNLs approved in this Parliament, and, as Mr Rico has told you, in one you abstained and in the other you approved it... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... which was proposed at the beginning of the legislature and which was ratified in two GNPs approved in this Parliament, and, as Mr Rico has said, in one abstained and in the other you approved it, and we will ensure that the Department of Health deepens the work on persistent covid, which, by the way, is not a pathology, is a pluripathology. In the meantime, you will continue to criticize everything that is done without hints of imagination and without hints of empathy, even for the most common and logical issues. Look, I've been asking you in committee for at least three months now to even support and encourage people to get vacated and put on masks inside and I haven't made it yet. And you know why, simply because it would be asking for something in what you, even if at a minimum, would agree with the government. And it's that you're dead before you ask for the same thing as the government, even if you ask people to do something to save your life and that of others. That's your policy, so there you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any correction, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u39	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking the People's-Citizens Group for bringing an initiative to this House which, of course, we have already registered with the various opposition groups. Specifically and with data, Vox registered a similar initiative on 22 October 2021. Besides, I have up to the entry number in case you want to look at it, 7379. Having said that, I would remind you that from this very atrium we have defended on many occasions the imperative need for this Government to expose its management of the pandemic to an external and impartial assessment to be carried out by a group of experts from different fields and without political affiliation, without political toll to be paid. This is very important. The objective of this evaluation should be twofold. On the one hand, identify areas of improvement to be taken into account in future situations similar to the current one, and on the other, to assume their responsibilities for the consequences of the decisions taken. It is not about evaluating the response of the professionals of Osakidetza, which has been excellent, but the way to make the decisions made, the participation of experts and what experts, communication, the management of information, the confrontation of the Basque Government with the judiciary, the chain of command, the local management of a global problem. It would also add the desirability of assessing also the initial forecast, the improved ability to respond to self-criticism, the tenacious emphasis on hospitality and catering, the vavenes, the foresight, all those issues that should be considered in this independent study that this Government has awarded to LKS, impartiality without a hint of suspicion. And what today (?) as it will also commit itself to transferring to the Health Commission, which is just what is going to be approved today after a new debate of the deaf, not of the mute, because the initiative is of PP-Citizens, not of Vox. I would dare to say that in an impartial assessment of truth, the important thing to highlight would be the absolute unpredictability of health officials throughout the pandemic from beginning to end; the null self-criticism of managers who have always sought guilt outside, in the citizenry, in the Government of Spain, in the hotelry, in the restoration; that political interest has been prioritized to the opinion of the experts; that excessive power has been given to the political LABI and the political managers of what is a health crisis; confrontations (?) because it was the judges who stopped unjustified and markedly authoritarian measures, the beginning of the vaccination campaign in this region, and the opacities of Councilwoman Sagardui in parliamentary office. Also the imposition of vaccines (?) with certificates discriminating against one person in respect of another. And I add two more details. Government parties endorsed both unconstitutional states of alarm and everyone's data, death by covid, surpassing 6,000 deaths. Otherwise, add that we will not support (?) of siren or empty commitments, such as those raised today (?) But we are not going to vote in favour of the original proposal either, because assuming that it is appropriate to take into account the views of experts and not just interested and dependent politicians, such as those who make up the LABI, we have always argued that the best management of the pandemic was national. And I'm done. You see, democrats of the anti-democratic cordon, adalides of imposition and authoritarianism, here we are now debating an initiative that Vox also presented, and we are doing so indirectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u40	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In answer, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u41	Well, I'll start with Mr. Telleria. I, in any case, thank you for focusing exclusively on your turn, on my motion. It means he's devoted some time, at least to reading it and being able to argue it in his turn. That is, I thank you for studying it carefully. Also, humbly, I would like to give you advice, criticism must be accepted, assumed, especially when you are a representative of the citizenry, and I think that here we should all accept, assume and more or less fit the criticisms. I don't think you can have such fine skin. In any case, I don't know if you've also played to be a fortune teller, just as you get the crystal ball out here in the replica turn. Well, we'll also be aware of what they can tell us. I wanted to tell both Mr Rico and Mr Telleria that this initiative obviously covers many of the measures we have proposed over all these months, but because we believe that they are still absolutely necessary. We have referred, Mr Tellería, to the success of vaccination. I do not need to tell you that I believe that all of us in the Health Committee do not have to be constantly making appeals for vaccination and putting on a "yes to vaccination" sign, because, obviously, it is well understood, and you also know that it is. Therefore, I do not think it would be appropriate to play the game of confusion on such basic issues. I also have to tell you that there are issues that are not questionable and... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to confusion on such basic issues. I also have to tell you that there are issues that are not questionable and questionable, better said by me, but by the whole of the citizenry. If one has only had to go out on the street and hear the opinion of the citizens regarding the management of the Basque Government during all these months in relation to the pandemic, the changes in criteria, not to say, not to respond, the uncertainty generated, the confusion generated, the rebuking of events. Well, many changes, as I said, of criteria. Of course, you're lauded, and you know Basque health isn't what it was. And you know that, obviously, when in a department in a short time there have been three counselors, it's that you're not hitting the key. You have to know, when it has always been the crown jewel and all Basques have been very proud of our health. And it is no longer a reference to Basque health in the rest of Spain. It's not. And all you have to do is see - which I imagine will also travel a little bit through the rest of the autonomous communities; above all, that is why also to go to where better time ago than here - than health systems in other autonomous communities, in some things are reference to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I look at this with sadness, because we have been referents, and, above all, considering that we are the autonomous community that we spend the most on health per inhabitant: 1900 euros per inhabitant, which has no comparison with the rest of the figures that the autonomous communities can present. And, then, that involves demanding that the Basque Government, the Department of Health, be efficiently, effectively and effectively managed in relation to the decisions that are taken. And we can clearly say that this has not been the case in many - not all - aspects, in many aspects in relation to the issues that..., measures, rather, that have been adopted. Of course, the evaluation. Well, yes, Mr. Rico. But we don't know the assessment. If, already, I am referring to the replies to Mrs Ubera, who, moreover, thanks to the activity of Mrs Ubera, we also often know the intentions of the Basque Government. Because if that's what the Basque government tells us... If it were not for the questions we put, or the requests for information, we would not have information, because, on many occasions, in this specific area and in the management of the pandemic, the Government has played rather to obscurantism rather than transparency. Well, then let's wait for that evaluation. If it is referred to Parliament, please appear and explain it. Reinforce. I am glad that amounts are included in the budgets. Let's see if they're executed, because there's the budget executions. Let's see if they run. With regard to the emerging infectious diseases of public health in Euskadi, the report will have an opportunity. Okay, let's see if we incorporate it too, once and for all, into, for example, the Public Health Act. With regard to primary care, we will then have a specific debate. It's about the enclosed spaces. Well, it's that we ask you to go further: that you can contemplate aids; that you can facilitate that renovation of the air in enclosed spaces, with installation of fans, of CO2 meters. The persistent covid, of course, is that it is the reality that we have on the table. Awareness-raising and awareness-raising activities. Well, if there's still a problem with certain groups, it's that it's not right or something needs to be reviewed. In short, yes, coherence in an initiative, because we believe that the Basque Government is not doing enough on some issues. And obviously, because the striking thing would be that this group would not have picked up on an initiative as a motion, after an inquiry to the counselor, all those issues...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u42	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u43	... over the course of these months it has defended and believes that they have not yet been done with their full effectiveness or in a complete manner. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u45	Well, in this second shift, I'm gonna start with a little humor. I know I'm not the funniest one. That's what Mr. Telleria's for. I also know that it is not the subject or the time, but, with your permission, Mr Angulo, because humor always helps mental health and this subject for all has been very hard, as you have said well, less bad, less bad that this pandemic has had sex, Mr Angullo, less bad. Dicho esto, señor Rico, see if you're more lucky than we are, because we're the ones who're trying to do the events that we're showing, materializing the signs around the reports already made, but we're not lucky. And now you have proved another strategy, a report not yet arrived, and the report which the Government has not done, you have already asked for its occurrence, and at least the report of evaluation on the end of 2020. So to speak, we have a few priorities at the moment. And it is necessarily a priority to strengthen, in the collective and most vulnerable districts, the surveillance system, prevention and care system, the virus system. And that calls for old people's houses at the hospitals, on hospitals... , here specialized protocols, require more resources. And that's what you have to do. And that has nothing to do with the reduction of the rights of those persons who have been made throughout the whole pandemy. That's where we should make an effort. Then, on the other hand, we're in a very delicate and complex moment for management. And while we prepare for the new phase, the surveillance network, system, network, virus control, and even respiratory diseases, we must not abandon the existing system, we must not desert it, as the government did in the sixth wave, to tell the positive, because it finally causes distortions, and leaves it not to be examined as it ought to be. So it seems to us that these two elements must at this moment be relaxed, that it is very important, and that we must put all our strength in it. And for that, inevitably... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that these two elements must at the present moment be stripped, that it is very important, and that we must put all our strength in it. And for this very purpose, the Director of Public Health must necessarily strengthen the epidemic structure, and not as it was done in the law of the −scals, bring in a measure to weaken the structure of non-demiology. Not with words, but with actions; and it is seen that we have not succeeded in bringing him to the center of Public Health Management. And as we discussed the antipandemy law, it seems important to us to integrate them into Osa with the first care of interacting with each other, because what has been done has been drained of attention, the first thing we've done is to load our attention with work, and finally not the usual activity and not the covida, nothing. Then it seems to us that all this must be ordered and that it must be strengthened and that it is important. And it's also been talked about the covid permanent that our team brought this proposition around the demands made by the Basque and Basque Medical Society at the Commercial Committee. And it is true that in the inquiry there has been some steps taken, but all the demands which they made are left in the way; it has not been done, nothing has been done. And there's an incredible struggle for these people to get the bajok. Then it seems to us that there are some points which ought to be dug up when it comes to the confession of the disease: for the diagnosis of this disease in the public health system, of determining the course of the pursuit, of the formation, of the attainment of a treaty with Social Security, in order to be a code, and to be the right thing. Then pandemia isn't over yet, it seems that when the government cancelled the medical emergency, the pandemy is over. Now this new phase is going to be very complex and you have to handle it. And it seems to us that there must be measures, and that the government cannot continue to exasperate the responsibilities, as it has been done with the councils in the cellars of the carnivals, with the brown passing through to the carnival. So, as we've often talked about this new phase, we need to adapt the strategy, but the strategy is not to demise the strategy, but to strengthen the necessary structures we need is − and we're late, and besides the covida handling, everything that's not all the rest of us is off −bi years, which has to be put into the "J" machine, and we have to offer the proper attention of the citizens, to do the presence, to do the diagnostics, to see what's going on with us. So we've got a lot of homework, and I feel like we could help us all out of here by borrowing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Podemos Antzel, Mr. Angulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u47	There is little talk of sex in this Parliament, I think next week we have a demographic challenge debate, I hope a little talk of sex. I've talked a lot about sex in my life, so, well, a lot. [[Barres]] Of everything that has been said, I've seen few... There is little debate and much agreement, also on the part of politicians who support the government, saying that they already collect everything. If this is all there will be no problem in voting in favour of the amendments and the initiative that has been put forward, because we are all in the same direction. Obviously, all cities, all peoples, all communities have not gone up and down in the same way, there have been communities that have suffered constantly and repeatedly, and have been leading the covid or covid incidence positions for longer; just as in all countries there have been, there have been people who have done so, who have taken other measures and saved the pandemic. And also Mrs. Ubera, Rebeka Ubera, has talked about rights. I think it is very important, it has focused on the rights of the elderly, who have been violated. I believe that children's rights have also been violated at many times. And I want to claim your rights here too. On the other hand, we will say that we are going to vote in favour of the initiatives of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u48	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u49	Thank you, President. I'm not going to go about sex, I'm going to pass the word, it's not going to be that this goes up in tone. [[Berber]] The question I believe is clear and obvious. Certain issues are raised by the Government, public policies are carried out, public policies are implemented after they have been designed, and from the opposition there is opposition. But, of course, the opposition also has the opportunity to decide how it opposes. And many times in the opposition he is wrong and misses the shot, posing that making opposition is simply opposing everything; it is that everything is wrong. And I've ever been heard in this rostrum saying that everything is wrong is as ridiculous as saying that everything is fine, because self-criticism is demanded. In this Parliament, in the Committee on Health, in the committee, I am sorry, in this plenary, that I have been heard on more than one occasion, and not just myself, by the two groups that we support the Government on some occasions to say that there are things to be corrected; in our own amendments, er, with our own amendments. But there is one difference: we have to manage reality, we cannot afford to live in a dream in which one, instead of going as far as possible, goes to purity, to holiness, to the head of the banner, but then to have absolutely nothing to manage. I'm not gonna do... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ...to purity, to holiness, to the head of the banner, but then to have absolutely nothing to manage. I'm not going to make opposition opposition. But, as Mrs. Garrido said, I'm not going to talk about it, but here I leave it to you. Well, I am not going to oppose the opposition, but, man, it is less bad in this Parliament than on many occasions we have not listened to them. Good luck. Here we have come to discuss whether to stop giving the second dose of vaccination to the citizens of Euskadi in order to extend only the first vaccination. And I remember when Mr. Telleria and I were saying, "Well, this is jamming, it's true. But it's the scientists who said it." I have reviewed that debate. Mr. Telleria and I told them we weren't epidemiologists. That I say again, none of us here are. But sometimes, it seems that some are, or some. Well, we discussed that here. And remember, where they did it, what happened? Well, they're still not recovered from that nasty management. I don't ask you to support them by taking out banners, saying, "Hey, you. And how good he does it." No, no, But I do ask that we be even. We cannot come here to the Health Committee to say that it will take us four years to immunize, Mrs Garrido. That's what they said, four years to vaccinate. For today we leave here, without any intermediate step, and recognize the success of vaccination, as if people had been vaccinated because they fell on the street on a needle that, incidentally, was carrying the vaccine. No, no, It's not like that. If I don't say clap with your ears. No, I don't. If there's a lot to improve on, all right. But in all health systems, also where you govern. Of course. Because we have to learn from this pandemic. The debates on the vacunodromes. It is just that you have not reported that there are going to be vaccunodromes, when in a previous committee you had been informed of the possibility of such vaccunodromes. That is what we have been constantly experiencing in this Parliament. When he was saying, "No. It's just why they keep the second dose." When in Andalusia, Mrs Garrido, the PP government was paralysing first-dose vaccination for not collecting second-dose vaccinations. And least of all, it was that government of Pedro Sánchez, which you have always put on the ground, to give more vaccines to Andalusia, to gobble up the autonomous communities that did, including some governed by the People's Party. But there was the Government of Spain pushing a government out of another party and saying, "What do you need?". I believe that in situations like these the height of the groups and the height of the parties is also demonstrated. And there are those who can choose to take out a headline. That's very good. But it will last you little, because all citizens will know that when we recover primary care, when we recover the public health system, it will have been despite you. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u51	Thank you, ma'am. He was already depressed today. I have already warned you before these continuing debates, this repetition of ideas causes me depression. But, of course, I'm even more depressed because I'm nothing, and it turns out that even the pandemic has sex, and I'm dry here. [[Barres]] Although it's also true... Mr. Angulo, I disagree. Maybe we haven't talked much and we have to talk a lot. But it's not about... sex isn't about talking, uh; it's something else. And now, look, Mrs. Garrido, I know that you want me to focus on you and not disperse too much, I'm going to try, uh. Look, it's coming... They have come, successively, in the time of different health emergency Sailburus, but comes the health one, and you tell him that the education one has to come; comes the education one, and says that the health one has to come; comes the education one and asks him how are the aids to the hospitality; comes the business one, and you ask him how is the vaccination going. That's your model. You could... And I'm not doing any parody, eh. It is a reality that all my colleagues in the Health Committee could ratify right here. Then... In addition, he comes to us and tells us, "We have to do the evaluation." But if you should... If you read the orders of the day, the requests, the bulletin, you would have to know that it has been ordered for a long time and that we - I have already told you Mr Rico - have asked you to come and tell us as soon as they hand it over. That, by the way, it turns out that the evaluation has to make it an independent body, and, instead, the Public Health Plan cannot be commissioned outside. It can be loaded out, although then the one who subscribes and the one who modifies what they do out is going to be public health. Don't hesitate, Mr. Angulo. Don't hesitate. But I'm still with you, Mrs. Garrido. I'm not giving up too much. Trackers dismantled in advance. The trackers were dismantled when the pandemic ended and when we were 15, 20 days without nearly any cases. If the government had kept those trackers for two months and there had been no rise in the pandemic, you would be talking about waste again. He doesn't care. That he doesn't agree with the screenings. There are times when you, a year and a half ago, asked for screenings in certain places, in committee, in committee, Mrs Garrido. Vaccination, what about the 30-year-olds? Of course, if there are 30 boys who won't be vaccinated, it's Mrs. Sagardui's fault, almost certainly. The 30-year-olds were there at her house, and it wasn't Mrs. Sagardui who told them, "Get away, handsome." Look, we'll also have to transfer some responsibility to some citizen from time to time, from time to time. There's one thing you said you did right: hire retired doctors. But he immediately said, "But he's late." For a good thing, it's late. That's all the concept you're permanently moving. To whom his friend Angulo joined today... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It's late. That is all the concept that you permanently move, to which your friend Angulo of Podemos has joined today. About..., really, besides, I'm still surprised by that speech, if something is done right, it's because the professionals are chachi piruli; and I don't doubt it, but what I know is because the managers have made bad decisions. Listen, simplify, simplify that, I think it is absolutely unfair, absolutely unfair, without putting any doubt of the professionals we have. But it's good to hear all that. Sure, then, sure, I have fine skin. No, no, I don't have the fine skin, Mrs Garrido, I have a reasonableness that runs away from cynicism; that's something you plan in this House every time a health issue comes up for debate. And, in addition, you stand permanently as a spokesperson for what citizens think; it seems that you are talking all day with the 2,200,000 citizens. By the way, by the way, I'm Basque, don't tell me I'm lauded, I'm Basque; I'm born and raised in Gipuzkoa, studied and illustrated in Bizkaia and matured to senectud in Arabic. And you refer, you become a spokesman, but you don't quote us from the last report of the Spanish Public Health Defence Federation - nothing to do with this gentleman - that says the community with the best health services in the state is Euskadi. And, look, Mr. Angulo has said that society has patience. I won't tell you what I have. And in any case, you will permanently continue to come here to stage everything that happens. And I would say to you a pair: Mrs Garrido, yours is not of this Parliament, it is of the Lido. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Isn't the Mist team gonna talk? After discussion, we'll put Garrido Knörr's original text to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 32; the contrary, 41; the abstainments, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u53	Not accepted. We're going to vote for the full rights of the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 26; the contrary, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u54	Not accepted. Together, Podemos-Nozzer we'll vote for the full rights of the Animal Team. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 32; the contrary, 41; the abstainments, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u55	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u56	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Amaia Martín as the Congresse of Misto, as a symbol of rising terrorism in the western world. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs Martínnez, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, the speaker of a local radio station reported that the Status Quo group had chosen Bilbao as the only place in the State where it will be performing on its next tour. Not of Spain, he said not of Spain, but of the State. It may seem like a minor issue, but it is not; it is the victory of a story contrary to the concept of Spain, which has also permeated every corner of this region. For years we have lived between messages of support to ETA and its imprisoned murderers, between aggressions to the country of all, to Spain, and the symbols that are also of all. A strategy conceived in the herriko taverns and in the batzokis, which national bipartisanism never faces. Moreover, the Socialist Party now follows its partner, giving good cause to the insulting urban decoration of walls, facades and squares of villages and cities of the Basque Country. Thus, today we suffer the consequences of 40 years of letting go and of desidiy promoted by the PNV, and not faced with firmness either by the Socialist Party or by the People's Party; which makes them co-responsible that in this region of Spain it is dangerous to claim the condition of being Spanish, that using Spanish symbols supposes, even today, to face violent situations. And we know that those of us who militate in Vox, as we also know in the PP; militant parties have been threatened and attacked for defending their status as Spaniards. This is the environment in which we live, an environment in which any Spanish symbol can be stained, in which the obligation of the presence of the Spanish flag in any official act can be breached. In which to label Spanish flags painted on walls and facades is freedom of expression not persecutable, as Mr Erkoreka also told us right here... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in which to label Spanish flags, painted on walls and facades is freedom of expression not persecutable. As Mr Erkoreka also told us right here. Too bad I didn't get a chance to ask you, because I'd like to know if I'd feel the same way if the outraged flag were the Ikurriña. Anyway, I imagine what your answer would be, because we have already experienced situations in which any staining of any Basque symbol was treated as an attack on national identity, against its country illusion, against the dignity of all Basques. Moreover, in the same speech in which Mr Erkoreka defended the legality of messages against Spain on a wall of 200 square meters, he informed us that criticisms against Ertzaintza had been removed from the public street. He came to us to tell us that cutting a flag of Spain or claiming Euskal Herria as a territory outside Spain is an exercise of freedom of expression. Not to criticize the Basque Police, something that the adviser apparently considers to be a persecutable offence, using his own words. The partiality of this Administration is more than well known – and it is well known to all. For decades, the administrations - all those led by PNV and EH Bildu, all those in which the PSOE is a partner of Government - have allowed those who still vitor ETA and insult Spain and the Spaniards, especially those we live here. For many years, the enemies of coexistence have enjoyed almost total impunity. And since those administrations, it has helped silence those who, also on the street, wanted to defend the country - which is of all - and its symbols. And from those dusts we have these muds. Moreover, its repugnant anti-democratic cordon is an invitation to violence against the only party that defends the unity of Spain. That the provinces regain the leadership and the leadership they deserve, overcoming the failed state of autonomy. You outline a scenario in which those who still today are those who legitimize the violence of ETA and who can do an obscene exercise of victimism, in which silences those who defend Spain, its symbols and its diversity. Thus, in a central square of Mondragon can remain a "Gora ETA" for years alongside a flag of Spain spotted, in a clearly visible place that has certainly not escaped the eyes of agents of the Ertzaintza or the Local Police. As I have already pointed out in the question to Councilman Erkoreka, even today, in the streets, towns and cities of the Basque Autonomous Community are used for the exaltation of terrorism, to demand the return home of genocidal prisoners of Spaniards, and to demand impunity for the terrible crimes committed. I have no doubt - and I dare say that even those who sit in the seats of the parties that support the Government - I have no doubt that these messages are humiliating for the victims of terrorism, for those who continue to suffer the consequences of ETA's criminal activity, and the shameful support of those who in their day were financing the band and today continue to defend the legitimacy of their violence. The suffering, of course, is still there, as we have seen in this House by remembering today the murders of Fernando Buesa and Enrique Casas; to which we must also add that of Jorge Díez - listen to Buesa - whose relatives from here show our solidarity and our respect. The suffering and pain are still there, as follows by EH Bildu's support to those who perpetrated these and other attacks, even if they are capable of an exercise of enormous hypocrisy - presenting themselves before the monolith in memory of Buesa and Díez - when just over a year ago they questioned the injustice of the damage caused by ETA, considering that it depends on each account. Ladies and gentlemen, the data always kills the story. Of course, his story has little to do with that of Sara Buesa, the daughter of the parliamentarian whom we have just remembered here. This Sunday he publicly said that empathy with the victims is incompatible with support for the violent. And in this line, I wonder whether respect for the victims is compatible with the permissiveness of the Basque Government, of many municipalities and I dare say that this Parliament too, with painted and well-visible messages on walls and facades supporting those violent, when not of ETA elevation in public spaces: in a square of Bergara, in a street of Elorrio, in a wall of Larrabetzu, in many other places. With the only exception of Vox, which, since its creation, has been clear in the denunciation of this kind of symbolology on our streets, the rest of political formations have favored its proliferation to the detriment of the legitimate expression of thousands of citizens of this region, who feel Spanish, who defend and respect their symbols, who should have as much right as any other to make use of public spaces to make visible what they are and what they feel. That is so, respecting the rights of others, with the commitment to keep clean cities and villages, something that to the left abertzale seems not to worry him at all. But we all know what happens when they try. Not long ago, a citizen decided to place stickers with the Spanish flag in various areas of this city of Vitoria. He was followed by a car with no I.D. that was pulling out each of those little stickers seconds after they were glued. That sounds really good to me. Has anyone witnessed the same course of action when the symbolism is protera or proof and when it is not manifestly xenophobic? Of course not. We are aware that this is the reality of the Basque Country and so are you. That is why I advocate not only the removal of walls and facades from every message of the rise of terrorism - which is still a lot out there, and perfectly visible today - but also the removal of political messages that imply that the image and symbols of Spain are tarnished, that they defend preferential treatment for murderers who neither repent nor cooperate and that, moreover, they deserve to be in prison until they have fulfilled their sentences in full. We advocate that the Basque Government regain leadership for the withdrawal of such messages - as was already done during Mr López's Government - although the other day Councilman Erkoreka intended to point out the situation in the PNV box. We believe that it is necessary to allow specific items in the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community to help the municipalities to remove from their squares and streets this type of symbolology so painful for the multitude of victims of terrorism, and to entrust the Ertzaintza with the task of identifying and notifying each painted and every message likely to hurt sensitivities as a step before its elimination, also encouraging collaboration with the local police, perhaps the best connoisseurs of its surroundings. And, of course, this activity deserves to be pursued and penalized. It is a question of dignity, a necessary action to improve coexistence in this region. And one last thought before giving the floor to groups that do not practice the indecency of the anti-democratic cord against Vox. Freedom of expression has its limits, because everyone's rights end up where the rights of others begin. In the Basque Country the right to freedom of expression is recognized to all that person, collective or political party... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... they end up where the rights of others begin. In the Basque Country, the right to freedom of expression is recognized for all persons, collectives or political parties who defend the uniqueness of this region and its consolidation as a nation. Also to those who claim rights and favor treatment for genocidal killers, for ETA prisoners. But the same treatment is not offered to those who defend our country, Spain, and its symbols. For years, for many years, carrying a Spanish flag created serious problems for anyone who had the courage to do so. We still have this little problem here today. The Spanish flags have been removed from a multitude of public administrations and are marked on walls and facades. And to those of us who claim our Spanish nationality on the street, they have to school us to avoid being assaulted by violent and redeemed and xenophobic. No, ladies and gentlemen. In the Basque Country, diversity is not defended when doing so implies recognizing the existence of Spain, its symbols and a national feeling. The authors and defenders of the Gora ETA, of the targets, are protected from those who tarnish the image of Spain and try to impose secession and favor treatment on prisoners of the terrorist organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u58	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u59	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. And thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Our group will vote in favour of your motion. With the four points we agree. We agree that we must work on those tasks of cleaning up political messages in so many places, that they are so hurtful against the victims of terrorism, or that we believe that we must work with the municipalities to keep clean of those regrettable messages these roads, these squares, these places, and have done so and working with the municipalities. And it can be done, that is, the economic contribution is also interesting. And also that the response be given when such expressions of radicality arise, that the police identify themselves and that the prompt response be given to such cleansing. And also with the fourth point in relation to investigating who is responsible, of course, for criminal attitudes and against the legal system. We, my group, the People-Citizens Group, will always be in favour of public efforts aimed at eliminating from our streets criminal or radical expressions that undermine the legal order. They are also the memory of so much suffering, and the continuity of some lamentable strategies, terrorist or criminal, of this country. Still with criminal expression in that which you have identified and so the other day towards questioning the counselor. We are fed up with those expressions of radicalism. Before we were victims, of course, permanent; now we are also victims of these expressions that remind us of this past of suffering, and we know what they seek: they want to attack, they want to end our coexistence, it is pure expression of hatred, of animating the coexistence, of exalting terrorism, of remembering the murderer. I mean, wrong, very bad what happens, and that's why you have to stop it. Because the truth is that they happen very often, very often in villages, in cities, in festive areas or not, and almost always in the same sense. Almost always this radicality is in the same sense and with the same protagonists: ETA, its successors, its surroundings. That's the most frequent of all those expressions. And that is why they are an aggression, they are an attack on coexistence, and, as such, as criminals against the norms, they must be answered with the law, with justice, with the actions of the administrations. We do not deserve, of course, we do not deserve, the Basques, those still abundant expressions of radicality and attack, as I said, to coexistence. We don't deserve it. We also have to say on the website of COVITE we have found for a long time an interesting section, a section that is called, which is the Observatory of Radicality. And in that permanent, constantly updated study, we see how these expressions are there. These expressions move permanently in our peoples, in our cities. He talks about the tributes, he talks about the ongitorri, he talks about, he also talks about the banners, the posters, the painted ones in that allusion to that radicality. And it speaks of 2021, 2020, 2019, you can..., and it also speaks of each of the expressions. So you can consult that data that, of course... And there they are, too, of the symbolology, the one that reports of paintings, banners, posters. Well, as far as the year goes, more than thirty of those expressions are already being recorded. So, in that sense, it's there and we're still suffering from it. And, moreover - and to conclude, and interlocking with other debates that we can and that we have in this House - a true historical, recent, democratic memory is also not compatible with the maintenance of criminal messages of hatred, of terrorist exaltation. And that must disappear from our streets. And that has to be a priority for the authorities as well; because if not, you wouldn't be working on talking about an inclusive memory of everything that's going on, it would be keeping the flame alive of the worst we've had in this society lately, wouldn't you? That is why we need that effort and also the authorities, we also need that economic effort and in collaboration with local governments, some of them, of course, reluctant or unfavorable, but, well, they feel that it has to disappear. For there must also be such collaboration with local administrations to erase or eliminate these forms of humiliating symbolism in the form of paintings, posters, banners that do so much harm to the victims of terrorism and to society as a whole. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours. [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u61	President, ladies and gentlemen. The dignity of people, the respect between people must be exercised every day, and in any of the circumstances of life and social relationship. There are no rights of manifestation, assembly or expression that could be considered this way if they involve traces of humiliation or degradation. The existence of socialism, unlike other ideologies, has its raison d'être with the commitment, defence and implementation of human rights with life and freedom, with culture and democratic coexistence, with the eradication and reparation of injustices, with solidarity with all victims of all violence. That's our 140-year-old legacy. Our commitment was, is and will be to dignity, to justice, to education in values. With the demand for an ethical soil that provides and ensures quality for democracy and coexistence. Our commitment and convictions, our democratic militancy, also demands a high level of vision, and create spaces and opportunities to broaden democracy. Therefore, and without diminishing the democratic quality, we have always known that although freedom coexists between risks, it is undoubtedly the safest space we have, a space in which we have no one who wants to be, even if it is difficult for him to accept it. Freedom and security, always delicate and fragile, which makes us permanently vigilant and condemn any expression or display of hatred, humiliation or revictimization, whether it be a crime or not. A surveillance and condemnation that we extend to all kinds of fascism, marginalization or exclusion, for alleged ideological, religious reason or motivation, by place of birth, sex or any other circumstance of diversity in the human condition. Our commitment was, and will be, so that freedom of expression, being free, is not harmful or offensive to human dignity. For education and training to help the use of political or social expressions that respect decorum, because our rich nuanced languages make it easier. A freedom of expression in which the sick, rude, ill-intentioned, exalted, reckless, funny, frustrated, clumsy or disturbed, with or without diagnosed pathology, are more afraid of ridicule than the Penal Code. Socialists work every day in society, in institutions, in governance responsibilities, so that public authorities act in the public space with the corresponding tools, helping to make that space sensitive to the victims of terrorism and to any victim of any circumstance. In our society there are expressions of violence that come from the previous stage of ETA, and there are also expressions of violence from other sources. All hate stimulation is related to and close to violence. We work every day to reject politically, socially and culturally any act of recognition or exaltation for any ETA terrorist, has complied with justice or is about to do so. We did it by challenging fascists and terrorists, when they killed for exercising politics or demanding freedom. We did it by mortgageing a lot of personal things to win the collectives. We weren't the only ones who did it, nor were they all who did it. That's why socialists have service sheets; other pages of prose only. Acting against paints and other expressions of violence is not an organizational problem, of human or economic resources; it is a duty and a political obligation that we assume and that is on our agenda. Socialists work every day from society and in institutions, to keep public places and other media free of provocations that incite hatred, humiliation, threat, terrorist advocacy, and to pursue and bring to justice any criminal conduct. Democracy and freedom, human rights are not compatible with anti-immigration, anti-feminism, they are not compatible with fundamentalism, populism, intolerance, racism, xenophobia, public gypsies. They are not compatible with threatening pluralism. They are not compatible with the claim of the illegalization of democratic ideologies, with the appreciation of virtues in the Franco dictator, with the promotion of the use of personal defence weapons, or with the designation of foreigners as criminals. There's paints that aren't on walls. They are in hemerotheques, libraries and phonotheques, which affect human suffering because of their political burden and the consequences of rejection and marginalization they apply, which will remain forever and which are infinitely more worrying than those that bring us here, with the same stamp and signature. In none of this I have just referred to there are values or ethics for those who defend it, as in order to pretend to be a moral guide in this Parliament. However, the (complexity?) and the greatness of a democratic system, of a rule of law, of the use of broad margins that must always have freedom, makes it possible for those who defend these postulates to obtain seats, to predict their dangerous barbarities in them and to be asymptomatic to anti-painted products. As is known, freedom is like movement: it is not defined, it is demonstrated. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth exists, the lie is invented. That is why this is not an intervention; it is not an amendment. Maybe it's a sound in front of those pitchers that, the more empty, the more noise they make. And it is a part of our vision and function of history as socialists. Anyone who wants to improve it... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... the more emptiness the more noise they make. And it is a part of our (vision?) and the function of history as socialists, anyone who wants to improve it will need more than a microphone, paper and pencil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u62	Thank you, Mr Price. Passing on the answers, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u63	Thank you, Madam President. From Vox we understand that no parliamentary group has amended our initiative, Mr Prieto. We understand this perfectly because it is such a logical and decisive initiative that there is no possible amendment. We've done very well. It is shameful, on the other hand, that I also want to point out that a political representative of the PNV, I want to denounce him here, Mr Ortuzar, publicly maintains an undemocratic stance with Vox. This is part of the anti-democratic cord. With a force that is the third political force in Spain, and growing, that they do not forget, and, moreover, with so many millions more voters than those who can have the PNV. And they have the little shame of saying what he said publicly. He says Bildu's turning from darkness to clarity, that's what he said the other day. My question is: Is it you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, who illuminate this path with your heavenly light? I think so, don't I? Finally, this is the concept of democracy that prevails in this House and that we live day by day every time there is a Vox initiative as it is. For you, for the sake of democracy, it is important to build a containment dam for Ortega Lara's party, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, and yet, for the sake of democracy, they tend silver bridges to those who support Ortega Lara's kidnappers. That's the one we live here day by day. Terrible. But, well. Mr. Prieto, it's you... I think you've been a little out of place. He must be looking at me a lot older. Because I assure you, I have nothing to do with Franco. I can assure you. I simply defend common sense. And I do it day by day in this House. And macho, a macho party, has referred to mine. I assure you, as a woman, I have much to teach you about feminism. And I also do it day by day here in this House, where you all practice an anti-democratic and very sexist cord against a woman. But, well, here we are in the house of speech and debate, in this Parliament in which the parties claim to respect the legitimate right of any political formation to defend its positions and proposals whenever they are made within the framework of legality and without incitement to violence. Although, in fact, it is a mouthpiece defense, as I have just said, because when Vox's proposal is created with the right to ignore and reject any proposal that comes out of our ranks, no matter how sensible, no matter how fair. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that today you have not been very tired in this debate, more than anything for the sake of your health, as I said before, that the problem of health is very acute today. But besides, gentlemen of the PSOE, I'm going to tell you one thing. There are many quiet decisions that you have not adopted in this House. And I am telling you that Vox has brought this Parliament. The last, I think I remember, this PSOE refused to incorporate into the curriculum of ESO students the visit to the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism, as a necessary step to keep alive the memory of the suffering caused by ETA for decades, so that no one forgets the senselessness of terrorism and the shameful complicity of its environment. I don't know how the Buesa family will see that this PSOE doesn't consider it necessary for young Basques to keep in mind what happened in these decades, who were the victims and who were the executioners. I am grateful that you have spoken today because, well, in the end, we are opening the debate a little further to the field of what the debate is. But don't forget that there are things that we have brought very worthy to support and that you haven't. And I'm going to end the particular PNV campaign, that particular marketing campaign. Your reference to a political option as legitimate as any other, your manipulation of reality and your campaign to whitewash the criminal past of those who today can celebrate their cowardice, because the paintings and messages that you allow in the streets have a more than obvious authorship. The promoters also drink from the waters of Bildu and its satellite organizations. And you know, I don't need to tell you, you're very smart. So I trust that, as of today, the lords of the PNV feel complicit in the radical left every time they see a "Euskal Herria is not Spain", a "Euskal Presoak Euskal Herrira" or a "Gora ETA", or a target, which also has them. I hope you feel complicit, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, because, I tell you one thing, you are. LEHEDAKARIAK : Eskerrik asko, Martínez andrea. The Basque Popular must not speak. Basque Socialists? He mustn't speak. The vote ended... After the discussion, we'll put Martíne's original text of Mrs. Grayleña's motion. We can vote. (stopping) [[31st beginning of tape]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the opponents are 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u64	So, not allowed original text. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of Polydemos, which is the same as that of the parliamentary band of plurality together, concerning the measures of strengthening public health. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mr. Hernandez, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u65	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. As you know, we are on the eve of two important days of general strikes in Basque public health. Tomorrow a general strike is called throughout Primary Care, and next Monday 28th a general strike is called throughout Osakidetza. In addition, various demonstrations convened by public health unions in the capitals of Euskadi will take place during the weekend. These mobilizations, of course, have the full support of our coalition Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Although I must make it clear that no one, nor our group, wishes to see a general strike, and less in such a sensitive, necessary and essential area as public health, and less even if we continue to suffer the pandemic. But that is precisely why we believe that the Basque Government's obligation is to ask itself what it is doing wrong so that public health professionals, who have shown overwhelmingly their commitment to our society during this pandemic, can call several days of general strike. The response of the Basque Government to this strike, beyond a reflection that it does not seem to do, has, however, been the most conservative, and in my opinion, the worst of the imaginable. Tell the Basque public health workers and workers that the strike does not fix anything. We have heard that phrase too many times in the mouth of those who do not want anything to change, when it is precisely a change that is being asked of the Government by the health and health authorities of Euskadi, when it is precisely a change that is being asked of the Government by the health workers, the Government tells them that it is not prepared to make changes. But we also know from our coalition of experience that strikes, the last resort of the workers, in this case of public health, serve, strikes and mobilizations serve to move things. Strikes and mobilizations serve to push for change. A very close example, the victory that was achieved yesterday, at last, by the PCB workers on whom we have also discussed and spoken in this Parliament and to whom I take the opportunity to congratulate. And Osakidetza's staff knows perfectly well that his pressure and mobilizations serve. That's why they've been mobilizing for a decade, especially in the last four years. The Basque Government should therefore ask itself what is wrong. You should ask yourself what you're doing wrong so that we're back on the eve of such important mobilizations in the Basque public health. The Government should listen to those professionals who are going to mobilize in the coming days, and to the society that is going to mobilize with them and with them. And it should make changes in the health model and changes in public health management if it does not want the problems reported by the Osakidetza unions to be chronicled and their discontent to rise. The best way to avoid strikes, which are going to occur, is to respond to the complaints of workers and workers, and to respond to them by initiating changes in the model and in the management of public health, to strengthen it, as they claim, and to end the problems that the workers and professionals are suffering, and that, no doubt, as they and they themselves denounce, have a negative impact on the quality of care, something that must be of concern to us and that must be of concern to the Government. The diagnosis and proposals for change put forward by our public health professionals themselves should be taken into account, because, moreover, they are not new, and the Basque Government has been familiar with them for many years. If the Basque Government does not listen to the message that is being sent to it by the Osakidetza professionals, it will only ensure that the discontent between them continues to increase. They cannot be answered that the strike solves nothing and wait for them to stand idly by when they have been demanding major changes for years, the same changes, the same claims. Some changes that the Government has not denied them now, have been denying them for many years. The Health Advisor states that the problems that have been identified during this pandemic are short-term problems resulting from the pandemic. And that's not true. That's not true. The strikes of 2019, therefore, prior to the pandemic, which were massively supported by the workers of Osakidetza, already called on the Department of Health to take concrete measures to reverse the scenario they were in before the pandemic. What scenario, how professionals described it: workloads, increasing waiting times for patients and lack of resources in Primary Care. We have discussed these issues in this Parliament many times. Some claims that health care providers have continued to make throughout the pandemic and that they are resuming in the next few days, and to which are added other issues that are also well known by the Government: ending timelessness, reversing the outsourcing model and assessing the psychosocial risks of the workloads of those who care for our health. The problems in Osakidetza are not something... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... the psychosocial risks of the workloads of those who care for our health. The problems in Osakidetza are not temporary - as the adviser argues, as the Basque Government argues - but are partly the result of a lack of planning and partly the result of concrete political management promoted by the Basque Government. The policies of the last decade have triggered a progressive and worrying weakening of public health, which has become evident in the current health crisis and which has been visibly desolating during this sixth recent wave that we have experienced. The lack of personnel, the high rates of temporaryity, physical and emotional exhaustion, the systematic overload of work, stress, lack of recognition, lack of protection, neglect of occupational health and the lack of willingness to reconcile are some of the issues that Osakidetza workers come by, which they have been protesting, before the pandemic, during the pandemic and at the moment. The oppositions that are called and that are always announced in drums and platters accumulate delays of years. Every month there are 10,000 temporary contract workers, and they will retire around 1,000 other professionals a year in the coming years. Trade unions have spoken more than once that it is necessary to deal with this with the creation of at least 5,000 new places. Alongside the large workloads, the precariousness, the job uncertainty faced by professionals and professionals, the health service is increasingly privatized. As much as the Basque Nationalist Party strives to deny it, we are one of the communities with the highest degree of privatization of public health, and where, as a result, the private sector of health is also growing more. The deterioration of public health has been and continues to be the main incentive for private sector growth, and is therefore one of the strategies used to promote such privatization. This system needs to be radically changed, for they are areas where management and work should also be public, directly public, because they are essential for people's lives. But the Basque Nationalist Party remains committed to the model of outsourcing, of what they call public-private collaboration - we saw very well this morning in the ambulance debate - which is not a model of public-private collaboration in this case. It is a direct model of privatization of a public service, and also with consequences such as the one we have seen: worse services, overcosts and quality employment problems for those in those jobs. These awards of services to private companies ultimately undermine the public system, because it empowers, develops the private system, and prevents the development of the public system. It is a policy that favours private pockets, in the face of the common good, that generates, as I said, extra costs, and that ultimately results in a worse quality. All this is compounded by the various scandals in the management of health in Euskadi, such as the most recent cases of doped OPEs or irregular vaccinations of high-ranking people. Osakidetza's spine has been suffering from scandals, irregularities and even concrete cases of corruption for decades, recorded episodes since the early 1990s. Not so long ago, in 2018, some high-ranking charges of Osakidetza were condemned. That's why, with that backpack, you can't tell the workers that the strike doesn't solve anything. The pandemic, moreover, is not the problem to take steps towards finding solutions to these structural problems. It is not the problem to take steps in improving accessibility to primary care. The problem is to recognize and deal with them, and then the Government will discuss with the professionals on the implementation of the measures. But the first step is to recognize them and face them. The difficulties in accessing the required health care are already a cry between the citizenry, and the staff's splendour is clearly reflected - both in the massive follow-up to the mobilizations convened in recent months and in the different open conflicts in public health, which are not few, are a few. This Government should change its policies in the area of health, genuinely relying on strong and self-sufficient public health. And for that, right now, and at the door of a general strike, you should sit down and negotiate with the workers of Osakidetza. To negotiate, not to anything else; not to propose to them a meeting on the eve of the strike, announcing beforehand to the media that it will fulfill what it had already agreed, and yes in a previous announcement to the unions, in a clear maneuver to discredit that call for a strike. What we are asking of the Government is a change in public health policies, through a concrete initiative. It is true that today the content of the initiative we knew that there was no room for agreement with the groups supporting the Government. We will hardly reach agreement on a non-legislative proposal if the Government is not able, in time, to arrange this with the public health professionals at the tables with them. Therefore, what we are asking the government today with this pnl is: a change in public health policies; that it attend to what is being said to it by those who know our public health best, who are the professionals who work in it and who are left behind in it. We ask that change from the Government. We ask you to listen to those who are going to mobilize these days, not to discredit their strike initiative, because we are convinced that they are the first ones who are not interested and are not comfortable in having to go to a strike situation, but they know that they have been demanding and denouncing how Basque public health worsens for many years. And we have to listen to that, and the Basque Government is obliged to make changes. We believe... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...how Basque public health worsens. And we have to listen to that, and the Basque Government is obliged to make changes. We believe that today this Parliament had to have this matter on the agenda of this plenary. We think we have to listen to them. And it would have seemed incomprehensible to us that on the eve of these important mobilizations there would not have been an item on the agenda where the parliamentary groups discussed these issues. That is why we have brought this initiative. That I know that some may find it repetitive, but that we will continue to insist on. As long as we have public health professionals saying that things are wrong and that changes need to be made, we will bring these issues to Parliament, and Parliament will have to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u66	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I will be brief, because I really believe that although this proposal is not a law specifically, I do not want to tire Mr Tellería either, although I imagine that now his intervention will focus more on the initiative of Elkarrekin We can on the situation primary care. I was saying I'm going to be brief, because, obviously, we've already discussed... - although not specifically - on this issue in some way in the first point following the motion we have tabled. And we have to say that we have come to say in this Parliament because all that, and to put forward initiatives in relation to everything that we believe does not work well or that is likely to work better. And, in that sense, well, because we have raised the motion as a result of questioning, and in one of its points - which coincides with Mr Hernández's initiative - we refer to the situation of primary care in our autonomous community. No one misses the quality loss of the system, and especially in primary care. And I said in my first intervention, I pointed out that Basque health is not what it was, it was a clear reference, and also in primary care. There are multiple deficits, the most significant is the lack of personnel, but this is a structural problem of Osakidetza itself, not new. Already when we discussed the Primary Care Strategy in the past legislature, and we had discussions, and we have appearances on this issue, the health professionals themselves - and I am referring in particular to the group of primary care doctors, pediatric doctors, nurses - were already pointing out to us the warnings of the lack of professionals to meet the needs at that time present and future. And a specific problem also of Osakidetza, as is the lack of generational relief, and that a large part of the staff - as we are seeing happening - would retire in the coming years, which is what is currently happening. It is therefore a reality that was there, and we at that time defended and stated that the strategy promoted by the Basque Government was not ambitious enough to meet all those needs that our health system had in the short, medium and long term. It therefore did not provide for such measures. But after the hard months that we have spent and that, undoubtedly, the health system as a whole has been saturated, and especially primary care, those deficits that were there, well, they have come out with greater virulence if it can. And what I am saying, and indeed I am going to give reason to the groups that support the Government to see that it is not all criticism, criticism, criticism and disqualification - which is what I have wanted to see in the loving words of Mr. Telleria who has dedicated to me -. It is obvious that I agree that all health systems are tense, and especially the primary care of the different health systems may be tense, but what we have to think here - and the Basque Government in particular has to think - is that there is a much greater margin of action than in other autonomous communities when the health budget is EUR 4,352 million and the expenditure per inhabitant, said, 1980, exactly EUR 1984 per inhabitant. We therefore believe that there is wide scope for action in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And what we are showing is that we understand that adequate measures are not being taken to address the shortcomings currently faced by the Osakidetza workforce, especially primary care. The professionals are overloaded, they're saturated. There is a lot, I certainly will not go in, because perhaps many times it does not coincide perhaps in the formulas of showing certain complaints either. But, well, there everyone also manifests that tiredness. But what is clear is that the staff - because of this saturation, because of this overload - is showing an obvious fatigue, to which the Basque Government and the Department of Health in particular cannot be alien. We have tabled our amendment, which is also consistent with what we have done on this point for a long time, as it could not be otherwise. We have already proposed the revision of the Primary Care Strategy, but not as a result of the pandemic, but we have proposed it long before. And when I invite you... Mr Rico is new to this legislature, but I imagine that Mr Telleria will have had occasion for what, moreover, well, because he likes to read the hemeroteca of this Parliament, and above all to read with great attention to this parliamentarian, because he will have read my speeches when this strategy was presented and that we were critical with this strategy; but not because of the criticism for the criticism, but because the professionals were also critical, and there are also the demonstrations of both Satse and the union... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... but not because of criticism for criticism, but because professionals were also critical, and there are also the demonstrations of both Satse and the medical union and the different schools. We therefore agree at this point that this strategy needs to be reviewed, that we cannot waste any more time and that imminent steps must also be taken to address the – which are multiple – deficiencies that currently present primary care in Euskadi, Osakidetza. To that end, we once again urge the Basque Government to the issues that we have repeatedly insisted on over the past few months, because, as I say, this is not a new problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u68	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u69	[[Microphone Off spoke]] The things we have. We'd like to thank Podemos Almighty, and we'd like to thank the left plurality for bringing in the discussion today, to give us a chance to discuss our first attention, for allowing us to discuss the state of public health. What do we think of it till we get on with it and get it right, we don't get tired of talking, but above all we should agree on the proposals. It is clear that we must place in the centre of the political agenda the physical attention to the people in the first instance; for it is a right and a means of paying attention to the Administration, to enable the measures for planning and organisation. When a person needs it, so that every person can get attention in time and time when he needs it. Or if any other attention is required for the −'s irruption of health, or for a program to have access to the public health system, without any philtro or hindrance, which is all the sociative condition of that citizen, be as much a genus, economically rich, as to be poorer for money. Membership, our public health system, must be everybody's, and it should be a system that makes us all equal, because we should go to it. Thus, because we are all going to defend the community and the public health system, and the elites of this country, and not to become the marginal system of the United States. So the challenge we've got in hand is a bad one. Someone will think that what I said right now is an exaggeration, and that we have no such problem here compared with what's in the United States. But if we see ahead of the pandemia a few years ago, from the side of the − professional health, what accusations and accusations were laid on the table, and what are they now, we shall see that these proclamations and accusations are the same. Remember, when they returned to 2016, the mutations, the employments, long before ovapandemy in 2019, were proclaiming the same thing. He's being conspicuous during the past few years, the preparation of his partner, the demise of his first attention. And it wasn't the outcome of COVID-19 that only COVID-19 helped us to let the citizens see what's going on in the public health system that had such a good reputation. Look how far we're reaching the privatization and demitation, where there's still a series of tremendous waitings in a pandemia for a consultation, as soon as there's difficulty in getting surgery, the government has been able to reduce Santiago's emergency, to remove the surgical surgery from Asuncicion, to cover the leaven of clinic, to prevent social attention in the Eile Hospital when there was a chance to maintain the surgical capacity for courgics, to close or to reduce the emergency hours. And all this is not a consequence or accident of virus, but all this is due to a particular policy and management; the precise management which is being maintained in years, and unfortunately has some disturbing consequences for our public health system. And this government is very clear: if the public health system is weakened, the private man gains weight. And we will say one thing, perhaps at some point, it may be understood, or it may be understood that the private area is helping the public health system in the harshest moments of the panedemine, but in favor of the general interest, and not for the interests of private interests. We think it's time we're going to −buckle ourselves to get all these challenges we've got in hand, and the priors are clear: Planning, personal health system, template and first attention. We have these three major priorities. And we think, in order to begin with, that the negotiation must be restored, because we have a table made for −, which is not called elections from 2013, but is not able to complete any signed agreements with the development of our profession, the covenant signed in July, which is going on. On the other hand, planning, planning, and planning; the arrangement that has not been made for years must be taken up with a capital schedule, a short, medium, and length of time; otherwise we shall find ourselves again with the absence of professional health. After that, it's vain to say that we have no professional health, it's no longer credible speech. I remember from 2012 to Berasdo, even in the summer of 2000, how he told us there's no need for more doctors. Only to see how many medical men are to be retired during the next few years. Look, the OPEs that are to be made in 2022 are designed for 2012 and 2016 of the legislature, and it's 2018 and 2019. It answers the past... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... 2012 and 2016 are designed in the legislature, and it is 2018 and 2019. They answer to the past; they do not consider our wants, nor our wants in the future. It's all so slow. It doesn't even resist the provisionalness of these OPEs in Osacia, the deprivation of professional health. All this has to take a turn, both to speed up OPE's management, to the university note, to the MIR model, etc. People take care of people, and we can't go on with homes and hospitals (see? for in order to avoid the flight of professionals, they are to be offered to them, in order to keep the members of the community in our own hands, in a quapo, without abuse, in form, in study, and in particular in the first care of a worthy contract. If not, our young men are leaving. They're leaving, and we have to hold our talent. We make an enormous investment as a village in the education of young people, and then they leave. Following the map. It's time to change the policy for memberships. When OPE's corruption blew out, we made a specific proposal to change the model of contractation, beginning with attention, and contracting with the formation, which was not successful. Contracts must be stable, they must be equal to form. And we can start with rares: personal personnel can be fixed as long as the owner of that job returns, or as long as that job goes out to OPE. This is essential. So stability in one way. And on the other hand, what can't be done has been to change every month the number of people working at Osar. It can't be a planatilla structure from 27,600, and then the number of people working every day at Osa, at a funeral, 36,000; the next month 34,000; 31,000; the next, 39,000. That can't be. So we have registered a −eta initiative to add the planatilla ovilla to 3000 jobs, that is to say, more 3000 codes, and then to examine, to Balzam on top of these codes, and to identify the OSI, how many more codes we would need in the structure of the planet, and that's essential. It's essential. But necessarily, with necessity and predominance, the primary attention must be reached, because this is the foundation of the Ossar. This is the basis of quality health care, where we have to put focus, because that's the door. Because without first-rate attention, there's no Osar. And it's our priority, and I want to think it's the priority of everyone. And it's not the moment now that you've been doing what you've done so far, but you have to take a blow. One must strike, one must change the direction of the pretty ones, and one must change the content of the pretty ones, to increase the first precaution, to stab the planet, to keep the residents in attention first, to debure their first attention, or to respond to the lack of doctors. But we can't continue to maintain the policies that lead us to dismanatement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u71	President, the covid pandemic has affected us in all our areas and has completely affected the health sector. The ordinary configuration of all of our health systems was neither designed nor structured so that their main goal was to cope with a pandemic. The epidemiological situation has conditioned and will continue to condition in an obvious way the strategies to be developed in the different care devices: hospital care, ICUs and also primary care. And that is something that is happening in all the countries of our environment, in all the autonomous communities, and obviously also in Euskadi, because we are not strangers to this reality. There is therefore an issue that is obvious and cannot be overshadowed, because it would not be realistic. It is not possible to claim that a pandemic of the characteristics we are experiencing does not have an impact on the normal care of our Health System. But we do not want to deny reality or become mere notaries of that reality, which it seems that some do want to do, nor to remain, as I said to them, mere notaries of reality. When we are seeing how the pandemic is affecting our public health system, it is essential that we continue to move forward on the basis of the system that is Primary Care and that is deeply strained by this situation. Being aware of the condition of the pandemic in our Health System, we believe it is necessary to continue to promote a dynamic reorganization of primary care centres so that they can adapt at every moment to the different situations that occur according to the degree of incidence of the VOCID-19 pandemic. But as we pointed out in our amendment, the ultimate objective must be to promote the recovery of face care as the pressure of the covid decreases on our health system and always ensuring the safety of professionals and users. And in this same sense, in relation to the reduction of waiting lists and the delay in receiving health care caused by the covid, with particular attention to patients with severe and chronic diseases. Socialists believe that it is necessary to further strengthen primary care as a level of care that is closer to the citizenry, with the aim of ensuring greater accessibility and avoiding inequities in health. In this regard, we consider it reasonable to urge the Department of Health of the Basque Government to continue to make available all the personal and material resources available for the fight against the victim... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... In this regard, we consider it reasonable to urge the Department of Health of the Basque Government to continue to make available all available personal and material resources for the fight against COVID-19, for the care of the people affected and for the care of the rest of the people affected by other pathologies. To this end, it seems to us essential that, on a structural basis, the process of renewal, increase and consolidation of staff be completed by means of public offers of employment, which have already been approved and convened. And from a more conjunctural point of view, referring to the moment we are going through, that it maintains and disseminates the offer to cover the vacancies of optional staff and nursing, and also strengthens the administrative areas and bets on the new functional profiles as well as their formation. And in this sense, it should be noted that there is already an OPE of 3,535 places: 322 places addressed to Family Medicine and 62 Pediatrics. And we say this by being aware of the difficulties that exist with regard to the lack of qualified staff available to recruit, both to deal with replacements for layoffs and retirements. For example, there is a shortage of medical professionals specialized in primary care and community health. But, at this point, it should be remembered that the serious difficulties that are being encountered for the relays in these places are due to the fact that they were not contemplated in the planning of previous MIR calls, during the governments of the People's Party. In order to reverse this situation, from the Spanish Government, President Sánchez, a number of measures have already been adopted which we believe can also be taken from the Basque Country. Thus it has been done that in the current MIR call the offer of places of Family and Community Medicine amounts to 2,336. In other words, 97% of the places accredited to the specialty. Also, on 13 October, the Ministry also drew up a draft ministerial order for the training programme of the specialty of Family and Community Medicine, in order to expand the teaching capacity, guaranteeing the training quality of specialists. And with regard to new specialties, further progress must be made, and in a transversal way. The creation of the professional category of Family and Community Nursing has already been approved. The creation of the specialty of Child Psychiatry and Adolescence has been announced, which we believe is very successful, because the pandemic has also affected our emotional health, and especially that of our young people. For the first quarter of this year, the decree of new specialties has been established, for which it will be very useful to count - for the beginning of this year also - with the study on the supply and demand of specialists doctors for the horizon 2021-2035 that is in progress. In addition to this is the Primary and Community Care Plan 2022-2023, which, among many other things, aims to develop a community health strategy at the level of each autonomous community. A plan in which the Department of Health of the Basque Government - as we agreed in Parliament - has also participated, on the experience of the Basque country, and on our own primary care plan, as has been moved to the previous point. And, of course, here in Euskadi, with our plan, with the plan that was presented at the beginning of the legislature, to which we have devoted not only the previous point, but quite full and quite many points of the Commission. And through the agreements we have adopted in this Parliament, and also through budgetary commitments. I don't think these are topics to look for titular positioning, but it's a matter of hoisting the shoulder. Finally, I will take the opportunity, once again, to acknowledge the work carried out all this time by our healthcare professionals. And I believe that the best recognition can be that, at times like these, we are all going in the same direction, which can only be to offer solutions to the problems of our citizens. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Sailburuok, legebiltzarkideok, here I am. It's like a deja vu. It's not the... Again, a déjà vu del déjà vu. This is not the first or second time we have talked about this subject. We have explained this to him every time, with his corresponding amendments. But you still do not accept in substance what this Parliament repeatedly approves by a majority of the citizens' representation. Let us begin with the principle that, although it is the best way to start, it does not seem to go with you, which, by the way, begins fatal, at the beginning of the justification of this pnl for a conclusion that is false. And, of course, from there, he realizes a construct that, obviously, and by pure logic, when created on a false conclusion, is a rigged construct. And that false conclusion to which I refer, and which is with which the justification begins, as I have said, is that of "the current pandemic, in its sixth wave, has also become an excuse for Osakidetza to apply cuts." The sixth wave is not an excuse. It's an incontrovertible reality. More than a wave, by the way, has been a tidal wave. And this can't be an excuse, because no one's invented it. There it is. And, of course, the least true is that it's being used to cut anything or anyone. Or can you prove that it's being cut? The serious thing is that a reality - the wave - you intend to turn it into an excuse from the Government for not knowing what. Because that is to accuse, by the way, the Government, of cheating or trilling, which takes advantage of the widespread disaster to cut; when never - and you know it - the Government has had that intention; when every year the health budgets come up - and you know it - when 30 million more euros have been added this year for primary care - and you know it -. And already, of course, I didn't pass that way. Is there less budget after the sixth wave? Are there fewer contracts? Did those who were already hired get their pay cut? No, there are no cuts. The only one who uses the sixth wave as an excuse for something is you. In particular, to continue with the only work that remains: trying to wear down the Government instead of cooperating in rebuilding. That's true, at times you've done it. And all of a sudden, he starts exaggerating with semantic scarecrows. And that, I admit, surprised me. It is not surprising the pnl, which even seems to me reasonable from its personal and political point of view, and from the perspective that every time the unions... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... PNL, which even seems to me reasonable from your personal and political point of view, and from the perspective that every time health unions go on strike or manifest themselves, you present a PNL. He told us, too. What is surprising is the justifiable argumentation, its excuse to present it, which is an infundio, I insist, is a troll. And it's just that you've fallen into populism. I'm also surprised, that it's nothing other than inventing a fallacy, spreading it, putting megahertzes in it and trying to capture general attention. The reality is that Health is having a bad time, and that is not the responsibility of the Government or previous governments. It is the fault of an unpredictable pandemic that does not end up leaving and that in its sixth wave has decided to infect hundreds of thousands of Basques and Basques in very few days. And there's no Health that can stand it, not the one here, not the one in Melbourne, not the one in Sevastopol. And this situation obliges, as in all the sanities of the world, delays, not to be able to meet with all the effectiveness that has always been intended for all. But when every day 12,000 or more tests are done, when every day they give positive 5,000, 6,000 or more, imagine the public health that must be taken to bear all that. But we all know that what is happening has not come to stay, that sooner or later we will overcome it, and that at that time we will have to work to recompose a system that continues to work to the fullest, but with excessive resources earmarked for a single objective, COVID-19, and they dedicate themselves to that basically, because if it does not collapse hospitals and kills. Also in his statement of justification he says that in some OSI of Osakidetza, nurses and nurses in training have been pressured to leave their rotations in specified days to carry out vaccines or tests of covid detection, to which he added that they were not compensated. Having said that, and without me denying, that it could have happened, we're back to turning the anecdote into a category. I can assure you that everything Osakidetza has to do to me, which I have already told you before that it is a lot of things, they have been doing to me without skipping a date or an hour. Because I've got the body relatively well, but the engine's broken. Now, I also wonder: is what they have done to me so for everyone? I'm sure we're not, we're 2,200,000 citizens, we're a lot of endless casuistics. But I will not move you as a populist my case as that of Osakidetza's normality, although I have for me that comes much closer to the reality of his example. You continue in your justification warming up, it's warming up, I don't know what happened to you that day when you say that making this request to nurses and nurses, to information, when there's financial capacity to hire staff, it's an abuse. This is an economic attempt to get personnel at zero cost through emotional blackmail. Don't tell me it's not populism to fill your stories with dramatic epithets, don't tell me. You know there was a time when some antigen tests could not be done, because there were no specialized personnel, because there are no, more than a hundred retired nurses and nurses have been hired, volunteers to collaborate with the work. And you'll assume that if you've had to appeal to people already retired from professional work it's because you didn't have them active. Then don't talk to me about abuse, and emotional blackmail, is what you intend to do with those arguments, drawing an Osakidetza as a merciless exploiter, whip in hand, hits your workers who almost naked crawl through the neighborhood with bloody sore. Man, a little please. By the way, nurses in training have among their functions the task of performing any normal work of their professional category. They normally cover all guards, and by the way, I believe that working in a pandemic and the complexity it carries would be part of its formation. If something has happened, which is not the case, it must be considered an anecdote, and it must be denounced, but not raised the matter to a parliamentary category, as if it were normal. And the economist thing, for look, I'm sure that in this the citizenry would think mostly that to manage thinking about the budget because it's not bad either. Because among other things, Osakidetza is not a bank, the bank of Osakidetza is all of us, and besides, public services should be managed, or we believe, also from a certain economic control. Evidently, one (?) it is like this, which is also a continuation of several previous ones and which has been keeping public health tense for two years, it has to affect something to health care or much, because public health is not structured for this type of situation, like the health of any government of the world as powerful as it is, or as the staff of firefighters of the Canary Islands is not prepared for the eruption of a volcano, otherwise it is that with its difficulties and logical delays, public health has continued to care for the citizenry, has not stopped, although it has had to focus a significant part of resources on the covid, and has had to appeal to new urgent material and human resources during the last two years: trackers to locate infections, nurses and nurses to massively immunize us, more than 4 and a half million vaccines in one year, more than 4 and a half, administrative for bureaucratic procedures and to attend calls, and all this, in environments such as the sanitary ones with difficulties, because they are spaces with ease for viral transmission, and therefore hinder the presence. To this end, over the past two years, an average of 4,000 more employees have been hired than Osakidetza's normal workforce. And already recently with the difficulty of finding available professionals, as they are all employed, you have come to hire, as I have already told you, retired professionals. Recognise that this situation in the last two years is not normal in the public health of Euskadi, which has been an extraordinary situation that until it is overcome will not allow to take the normalized pace and of optimal service that has always characterized Osakidetza. And our amendment refers to that, to the steps that must be taken by the Government to recover that position as soon as possible. In short, what we ask of the Government is to strengthen primary care, maintain the offer to cover the places, finalize the OPEs convened, promote a dynamic reorganization of primary care to better adapt to different situations and work intensively to reduce waiting lists. In short, we comply with the commitments made at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which in successive PNLs we have reiterated and approved by a majority of this Parliament. It is also logical that we are basically pointing out to the Government that in the face of the current situation, and it is logical that it slows down aspects that are indistinguishable at the moment, do not lose its objectives in the future and continue to work... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... It is logical that we are basically pointing out to the Government that in view of the current situation, and it is logical that it slows down aspects that are indistinguishable at the moment, do not lose its objectives in the future and continue to work. Thus, in the midst of the pandemic, the best state emergency service such as Txagorritxu has been completed. We're in a pandemic. We've been here two years. Public health is resentful, and that's logical. And the public health service is not the same. It can't be. As it is not being anywhere in the world while the pandemic lasts. Although our public health system is the best in the state and the best funded. In the meantime, you see that you use the pandemic, a situation not created by anyone, and less by the Basque Government, as an excuse to wear down the Government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u75	Thanking the EH Bildu group and Mrs Ubera for having reached the compromise, because, if not, then I forget, without any intention I usually forget. To answer... To keep responding to Mr. Telleria. Man, if I wanted to take advantage of the pandemic to make a policy of wear and tear, simply to the government, I would not have based my speech on the fact that the problems are structural and prior. It's just that I'm going to insist that what the unions are telling us... is that the problems are prior to the pandemic. We are not going to deny it, and I have not - and you know it perfectly well - made reference to it all along, Mr Rico, we are not going to deny the impact of the pandemic on any health system and that, logically, any health system was not sufficiently prepared to respond to such a pandemic. We're not gonna deny that. We haven't denied it at any time. I do not know why you are surprised by the speech we have made today, which is the same speech we have been making for a long time, which is the same speech about public health that I remember having made in this House a long time ago, which is the same speech that I remember my colleague Uria making in this House in the previous legislature. And we know where we have the coincidences and where we have the differences. And, of course, the difference is that for us it is not a question of recomposing the health system just because of the effects of the pandemic, it is not a question of returning to normality prior to the pandemic, because the health system in Euskadi, the public system, was already deteriorating earlier. And that is why we insist that the problems are previous. And we think that's what the unions are saying. Look, I don't elevate anecdotes to what categories. I gather as a point of our initiative and as something of our concern something that has happened, and that is not acceptable, and that the unions have denounced: that these workers, these residents, should be asked to do that job without receiving any remuneration. And it is a matter that must also be denounced. And that the unions were denounced, especially at that time when we were pnl. You didn't like our justification, you think it's exaggerated. Man, I tell you one thing: if we could agree on the operative part, on the content, I, of course, like my justification and nuanced what is needed. However, the justification is simply to transfer what the professionals, the health professionals and the health professionals are telling us, because this initiative was intended to be a parliamentary response to the mobilization announced by the health professionals. In our daily work, of course, we fasten our shoulders. It's not just about looking for a headline. It is about getting, yes, a headline, a headline that could be: "The Basque Parliament supports health professionals in their demands." It seems absolutely legitimate to me. And you know perfectly well that our parliamentary group throughout this pandemic has been hoisting its shoulder. In what we have been able to agree on, we have signed agreements with the Government. Even a law, the famous anti-pandemic law. But what we don't agree with, no. And in what we do not agree, we will continue to say so with force we consider it opportune. And, of course, we do not agree that Basque public health does not have important pre-pandemic problems and that the problems that are being seen are exclusively from the pandemic. And that is why we are putting forward these kinds of initiatives. We have also collaborated on the issue of vaccines. Or has our group not made an express recognition of vaccination? He has also criticized all those things that have been done wrong in vaccination. And I'm not just referring to the famous irregularities, I'm also referring to how it was left for a post-emergency phase and the emergency professionals, who have been here this morning, from ambulances, those who work for subcontracts for the public administration. But we have always said, for example, that there was a good rate of vaccination. I therefore believe that we cannot be accused of using the pandemic to wear down the government. We, to wear down the Government, are using to put on the table something that we believe the Government is doing wrong. And not just this government, because we say it is a structural issue that comes from previous governments. That there is an increasing weight of private health in Euskadi in the face of an ever-increasing deterioration of public health. And we can discuss the nuances, what everyone believes or does not believe that public health is deteriorating, whether or not the words "dismantling" are exaggerated or can be nuanced. Of course. But for us this is a reality. And, above all, what supports us in staying in those positions and bringing them to this Parliament is to meet thousands of public health professionals who tell us that. We think we have to listen to them. So...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u76	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u77	I'm done, Madam President. Yeah. I repeat, if you did not like our justification, Mr Tellería, I have no problem eating it, eating it, if we agreed on the content of the operative part. But I don't think we agree, because I don't think the government recognizes those structural problems that workers are denouncing... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... if we agreed on the content of the operative part. But I do not think we agree, because I do not think that the government recognizes those structural problems that are being denounced by the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u78	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Well, I did want to make a clarification that I have not been able to make in my previous speech on the first point of the motion put forward by the People's Party-Citizens, and I have not done so either in this first round, which is in relation to a reference that has been made to me by Mr Telleria in relation to an agreement on the primary care strategy, signed in this House. It was an initiative that led the group's spokesman, Mr Barrio, and in that initiative and in that agreement, which was also successful. I therefore believe that it was a timely initiative. Reference was made to the debate on the primary care strategy at the national level, and above all, because we were very drawn to the initially very collaborative position, let us leave it there, of the Basque Government and the elaboration of that strategy in participation. And so, well, I believe that in some way it was possible to go further thanks to the initiative, as I say, of my colleague Mr Barrio, because the position of the Basque Government is welcome. On the other hand, I believe that, well, I am not the one to give advice, obviously, but it is true, and less so to the Basque Nationalist Party, which also does not feel very good about the advice that this spokesman can give Mr Telleria. But it is true that it would be desirable to leave so much recourse to self-congratulation that the groups supporting the Basque Government systematically resort to, and especially the Basque Nationalist Party, towards all the initiatives that arise in these plenary sessions in relation to health, our health and the situation in Osakidetza. In the past two initiatives, this other two initiatives, I think it is a matter of concern to the citizens and of concern to these groups. And in that sense, well, the debates are there. I believe that the situation of primary care is not good, it has not been good for a long time. And as far as the position held by the People's Group, People's Group-Citizens, we were already critical of that strategy, and what we are asking is for that strategy to be reviewed, which is now time, that we are going late and that we get to work. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u81	Look, we'll like the fact or not, but they're data, and the facts don't hide reality. So there's no point in denying reality. Look, it's also information from the Medical Department, okay? In 2022, 142 retired in advance, 2023, 176, 2024, 253, 2025, 244, 2026, 264, 2027. So you will understand that the increase of the structure of the planet is not answerable to our deficiency. In 2021, the memory of Osae, the budgets, was planned by a 156 increase on the structure of the planet, but it didn't complete. Looking at 2022, the same holds, and we shall see whether it is or is not fulfilled. And besides further increasing the planetal, or placing more resources, or adding further investments, that −soso is well and necessary with that, together with which, necessarily, it must be accompanied by changing the modes of working, with other organizations. That will be inevitable because otherwise we won't arrive at this moment and the problem we're having in our years. Because what we're talking about in 2016 we're talking about now, and that shows how many times we've talked about the plan for Osata. For, the planetatilla is from 27.600, but the data from the −Osans Department is from September 2021, 100 percent during the practice: nomines, 41.282; persons, 39.181. May 2021: nomines, 41.254; persons, 36.808. This is reality. Then we have to hold this. This we must come to, and it is certain that the model of contracting is much cheaper for the administration. Yeah? And in years, we're making an effort to increase the map, to stabilize the planet, and change the standard of contract, because that's essential. It's essential. Why? In the care of health, people are taken care of with people, and without a person, because health is not to be paid. And that's essential. So here, they're essential at the moment: one, planning, reaching to what hasn't been done in years, to stabilize two, planilla, and this is not only done with OPE, we need other policies, and first attention is indispensable. And if we do an exercise of hearing, professional healths have very clear politics, what measures to be taken. And we've been trying to bring in these proposals over and over again, we've taken specific measures on our first attention to the budget, what precautions those 30 million should be taken, and they're thrown back. These 30 million restructured in a very general way. Now we have the chance, in this tax frame, to guide us to the measures required by workers and professional members of the Osae. We know it's not enough for 30 million, but it's not enough for a lot of politics... and to change them is not necessary an investment, and political change is more necessary. The health policy must be modified in 180 degrees, inevitably, and with regard to Urgence. Because no one, not even health workers, don't like to be mobilized. They don't even like to be constantly with the banner, or to do the job. They don't joke about it. They can't do it anymore because... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... They don't even like to be constantly with the banner, or to do the job. They don't joke about it. They can't do any more because in years public health is being supported by their own advantage, and they have already said that they can't do any more. Now it is time to deliver a hand among us, and to restore it truly. Because we can't continue like this because at last it affects us all, at least it affects the citizen who we use the role of Osar. And at least we're not prepared to let our public health system be debased and abandoned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u83	Thank you, President. Well, I deeply regret that, in a situation like the one we are, this rostrum is used to fundamentally not come to discuss and put solutions to the problems that concern our citizens, but simply to make a political rally and put us on one banner or another. But to edit, to propose solutions, which is what citizens ask of us. I have said this in the previous speech: it is clear that in all health systems - and Euskadi is no exception - the tension to which the pandemic has led us has made normal care disappear. It has made citizens have had a lot of trouble, for example, in accessing, in a way we were used to doing, the different health services that Osakidetza gives us. And that's obvious. And that is something that has never been denied either by the groups that we support the Government or by the Department. That's right. It seems that there are those in this Parliament who are trying to make citizens believe that this is because of a mismanagement of the government. And it's not real. That has happened in all public health systems in our environment. And it has happened because even many of the measures to limit facelessness are precisely measures taken to safeguard the health of users and professionals themselves. From the first minute, I remember that with Mr Aiartza we put an amendment, already more than a year ago, in which we collected textually that the presenceality according to the epidemiological reality would be recuperated by advising him. And that shows that that was our goal from the beginning. And that has been our goal, because we want to return to that normal care. But can I be told by a single country – the one that they want – or by a single autonomous community – the one that they want – that they have not had that assistance normality absolutely committed by the pandemic? There isn't. They're just not gonna find him. They won't be able to tell us. Coming here to say that they don't put in professional resources... Osakidetza has 4,000 more people per month working than in any month of 2019. And that is a verifiable fact that the Department itself has given. It's real, it's real that there's a citizen discomfort. Of course there is. And, obviously, even any of us will be pissed off by that lack of normality at some point, when it has touched us, when we have had to take our son, our daughter to take a test because in school someone has given positive. We would have liked it if, instead of having to wait in a queue on the street for 15 minutes, it would have been immediate. But this is the pandemic reality. What do you mean we don't know what's going on in the street? If this thing I just told you happened to me. Of course we know him, first hand, and we are the first interested in putting a solution. Of course, of course. And that's where we're at. And then, look at our amendment and say it's self-congratulation. Read the amendment and say it's self-congratulation. Because this is what needs to be done. We don't say how well it's been... No, no, what to do, what to do. And that is what Mr Telleria and I have done every time this matter has been discussed in Parliament. I also think it is important to have some consistency. Of course, going out here to this rostrum to talk about what it is that with the public job offers there is not enough. Joe, it's less bad than it's not enough! But let us remember what has been said in this rostrum from which we have drawn, with three thousand beaks, that you asked us to reverse it, that some said that we could even let it pass. That we discussed this in November in this Parliament, eh! That we discussed it in November in this Parliament. Therefore, I say it again, I will focus on it. Good. Do you want to be in the head of the demonstration? We, from the Socialist Group, will be waiting for you at the head of those who are trying to give solutions. And you have no doubt, no doubt, that our priority remains primary care, and that those of us who support this government are the first to be interested in precisely recovering that standard of care, but we are not going to recover it at the expense of the safety of users and professionals. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u84	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u85	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mr. Hernandez, I'm not gonna... I don't want to argue like this, bitterly, with you for nothing. I told you it was justification that offended me. And I've tried... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... I don't want to argue like this, bitterly, with you for nothing. I have already told you that it was justification that offended me and I have tried to give the reasons. Nor am I going to trap as a phoenician the justification with the content of the GNP, because it is a whole, of one derivative the other. Although surely if we had sat in time, we would have reached some agreement that would not satisfy either of us, but surely we would have, but it is that it rains a little over wet, because you two months ago began to proclaim in public and to collect signatures, because you said and swore that 4,000 jobs had been removed from Osakidetza. Where did you get that number?, when I told you that in the last year the average number of recruitments has been more than 4,000 over the average number of staff. Of course, this comes to say that in the background you... Imagine that there's an earthquake on Richter's 9th scale and it all falls, and if in a week there's still a snag left, you'd be saying that to see what happens to the snag that the corresponding road manager is taking advantage of to cut, and that's not it, it's taking him time to fill that snag, that's all. We're finishing the sixth wave. Today's data are already very positive. And it's time to get back to normal, and the counselor already said that surgery is recovering a lot. The real need for investment can now be better analysed. You can't analyze from the position of now what was happening. The number of infected has been enormous. We've had the ICUs full, the hospitals full. Well, now we can gauge it more serenely, regardless of whether you, and I agree, have maintained that the deficit is structural, but to say that is not to say much, then you have to start quantifying, you have to start sitting down quantifying. It's like saying that... I go back to the fire department in the Canary Islands, it's like saying that in the Canary Islands the fire department that is needed is the ones that were when the volcano exploded. But look, 15 days in advance I knew that the volcano was going to explode, and in spite of everything, it took hundreds of houses ahead, with thousands of firefighters. Wait until the situation is normalised, the seats called by the OPE are covered, the 30 million euros that we have approved together with Bildu for this year are located. And by the way, by the way, here he takes advantage to criticize everything. Some surgical concentrations that you want to do have to do with the effectiveness of the system, it's the same with the efficiency and excellence of the system, it's the same as saying that I have a research team, but I have one in Irun, one in Bilbao and one in Altsasu, because it's going to work better if the three of you are working together. But while you, and you in particular, criticize Basque Health, I repeat again about the Federation of Public Health of the State, which speaks of it as the best... Health service from all over the state that we have here. Look, despite 30,000 diagnosed in one day, 800 people infected at a certain time in hospitals, Osakidetza's budget in 2019 was 3.8 billion, today it is 4.300. This year, 107 million will be invested in 39 facilities and equipment. An OPE of 3,535 professionals has been convened. There are more MIR places, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Deusto and a new faculty of the UPV has been authorized. There is a new surgical block and new emergencies in Txagorritxu. New strategy for social and health care in the Member States. This is all being done right now. This is all about improving health. And while, you value us from the outside, you criticize us, because I really have no doubt that you are doing very well to wear down the government. They do take advantage of the fact that there's going to be a demonstration, a strike. There was also an anti-pandemic demonstration two weeks ago and no one has brought any anti-vacuums here and no one has brought a PNL here to discuss the issue. And with regard to... one thing, Mrs Ubera, with regard to the fourth point of... on 25% of the budget commitment, I do not know, I do not know how much that costs, but I would like to remind you of point two of the guidelines of the budget agreement for 2022 with you, which speaks of not distorting the budgetary commitment that has been made. However, 25% have to be better clarified by the next one, because I do not know if we need to raise primary care or lower secondary care, tertiary care, and so we get 25% of primary care. Clarify it a little better. Look, I once thought that you, Mr Hernández, Mrs Ubera and Mrs Garrido could be a counselor, deputy advisor and director of Osakidetza. And I'd spend it there phenomenal. But then I realize that citizens would get cold feet and ask us again immediately the next day to take over. You can continue to invent disasters, selling that we have a health worthy of the poorest countries in the world, but the citizenry knows that it has a luxury of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nozzeral corrections that have been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u87	Not accepted. We'll vote for the entire leadership of the populars-Ciudadans, then we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 27; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u88	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucaian patriots. You can vote... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... We'll vote for full correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the opponents, 28; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u89	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the Parliamentary Group, concerning the update of the maximum income for the subjective right of the housing. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Martinez Fernandez de Betoño has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u90	Yes, good noon to all. The Housing of 2015 brought important contributions, and one of the most important was undoubtedly the subjective right of the housing. In article number seven it was regulated, and in article 9. The conditions of this subjective right of housing were stated. In the first place, or in the first place, a house would be offered to the people the subjective right of housing in the social rent. And if that were not possible, in the second instance, they would have given them a replacement preparation, a economic housing preparation, a rent to pay for free market. Who can get that subjective housing right? Now, even in this article 9. It was said, what conditions should be fulfilled, that there should not be a house first, as −logic is. It was the second time there was a minimum of time in the building list, and it wasn't specified in that article. It was said that this would be the development of a decree after that. And the third condition was that there should be some maximal incomes, which ought to be followed by that decree. The problem is that this decree is not done yet. It's been seven years and still funk hasn't made the decree of the subjective housing rights, although in 2017, he's already published a project against the decree. Because there's trouble, among other things, on the stage of additional housing preparation, isn't there? Because after testing the decree, the Housing Department would have to take over the management of the additional housing management of the profession, and so, in spite of the lapse of time in both departments, it is either complicated or motionless. So what do you do? Now, it is applied to a transient disposition of the Housing Acts, a transient regulation, which was said in it, during this decree, that the following conditions would be applied: it was a second economic condition, and it prescribed a few tope maxims, as far as the ingrees were concerned, the subjective right of the housing to be admitted: 9,000 for one person at the most of the year, 12,000 for two, and for three or more, 15,000. Klaro, these sums were calculated in 2015, and there has been no update in these seven years. For instance, in 2015, when that was calculated, it was the maximum income of 9,000 euros for a person, well, that was perfectly effective with the minimum salary between the professions, which was then in 650 euros a month. If we had paid 14 times, it looked like 9,000 euros, so it was pretty busy. And if they were less than 14 payments, if they were 12 payments, well, could that person have the subjective right to the housing? The problem is that this minimum salary of profession has improved during the last seven years, − may have gone up a good deal in the last thousand months, so that this would be over 14, 14,000 euros, the maximum amount to be able to acknowledge the subjective right of the apartment, and that would be only $12,000, so that it would be above the number of ours. And, without going so high, a person worth 9,500 euros, for instance, I think we all would all agree that he's in poverty or that he's very close to poverty. Well, for that person who collects 9,500 bucks a year, that person is telling me that he's overcharged in order to be able to acknowledge the subjective rights of the housing. And when I say that about poverty, we can go to more precise facts. When poverty was calculated in 2015, the number of the subjective housing was at 8.011 euros, the sum of the risk of poverty is calculated at 60% of the median of investments. But, klaro, this has gone up with the time, and in the course of seven years a man is now in danger of poverty, which is now established in about 9.600 euros a year. So, the person I was talking about, the person who cashes 9,500 euros... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... Around 9,600 euros a year. Therefore, this person who collects 9,500 euros is officially in poverty according to these facts, and yet he cannot have the maximum income from those entries which have not been updated because the subjective right of the housing has passed. What's the result of this policy? That policy that doesn't update these numbers? Well, people are running out of this right, and so, in order to get a social rent, let's say he doesn't lose the chance, he has other options, but he loses priority, and even loses the chance of making a economic housing preparation. It is true that there are other propulsions connected with the house also, but there are other conditions for it, and that at least it loses both economic and economic preparation. Are we talking about some people? Well, in the housing guide plan, according to the plan that was tested about a month ago, the 10100 people have requested the subjective right of housing from 2015, from which the subjective right of housing has been acknowledged to 6,000 persons. Therefore, four persons of ten requests are being left outside, and four persons are not all present for the matter which we have brought here, but we think that there are a great number of the numbers which were calculated in the year 2015. , and we believe that we should update them. And behind this question there is a full name, of course, and there is also a genus. I think it's remarkable that there are 62% of all the people who admit the subjective right of housing, according to the housing observation. And there are also concrete problems, and one, for instance, is very connected with the habits of life. In this country, about a year ago, we, from an initiative brought by the EH Collect, came to a fairly interesting agreement, I believe, by means of which, as you know, we could not spend more than five years on the farm-house, and after those five years we agreed not to let those people go until they had offered another house in the social rent, unless they had a subjective right to the apartment. And because of the information we have, it's a happy thing to do, and we're happy on that side. The question is, that in these dwellings there are men who are nearest to those of whom I have spoken, but from above; and therefore cannot be acknowledged to be the subjective right of the house, and consequently are liable to go out. And this happens with certain promotions. For instance, in some of the dwellings of the Donostor Tree, the growth of the neighborhood of the Sagasti, Hernanic Sagasti, is taking place in some of the flats, and it is happening in other buildings in the Rue Fray Martin Mallea. Some families received letters to leave those places where they lived, because they'd been spending five years and the maximum ingregations, didn't they? Klaro, the problem is that you go to see the concrete cases, and, for instance, it is very remarkable that the number of ingregations mentioned by a family was exceeded by 800 euros for the whole year −800 euros; another was over 675 euros; and another for 430 euros. I'm speaking now if I'm not Mr.−, who at first was seven families, and it's the six families who calculated it wrong and now they've got the chance to be there in November, December and January, and fortunately for six months. But we'll have this problem again in March, May and June. So we believe that these updates are sufficient for some families, and we believe for many other cases, namely, for many other instances which are beyond these examples, we believe that a great number of persons who are very near this subjective right of abode, and who are not to be updated abroad, are not, as I have said, to be prepared for that maxim of ingregression which is not to be consumed from 2015. We've been trying to get the positions together with EAJ and PSE, because it's funny enough because you're the ones who admit that the problem exists, because EH Collect hasn't invented this initiative. You admit they need an update, but we couldn't get a new appetizer point, right? We've asked to be a 20% update and apply it backing out of 2022. I'd understand if you said another number, another date, but you didn't move from your position a millimeter. And, well, it seems to us a pity or rather rather sad thing. For, I don't know, we see two alternatives: or that there was a question which you already knew before this attempt entered, and then the question is, why didn't you make the update earlier? or have you found out now, or at least been more conscious, thanks to this initiative, and then the question is why do you want to postpone this update? It may be because you don't want to confess to EHG. It's this contribution. We're feeling that you're going to the same scene that took place with the housing settlement. A year ago, we asked for housing preparations to update 20%... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... the same scene which took place. A year ago, we asked for housing preparations to update 20 percent. Here in the legislature, you said no, and a few months later, you raised 10%. Well, if that happens, then it's a little bad for us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u91	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs. Larre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning, Members of Parliament. Counselor. There is no doubt that this Parliament is concerned about what concerns citizens: health – in many plenary sessions – and housing. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, it's real, the problem exists. The problem exists, but the solution you propose is not the most appropriate. Sure. The difficulty with housing today is the result of the wrong policies, the wrong past policies. It seems that little by little progress is being made towards housing policies that are more appropriate to current times. That is to say, creation, construction of public rental housing, which will detente the housing market, the value of rental housing. What's going on? That in Law 3/2015, of housing, of the Basque Country, is to be developed, and lacks to be developed the section that regulates the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of a decent and adequate housing. And this is what we asked in our amendment: to regulate the requirements for the competent public administration to be able to demand the satisfaction of that right, either directly through the provision of housing or - on a subsidiary basis - through the establishment of the system of economic benefit provided for in the housing law. And of course, this requires a necessary structure for the full and proper management of this right in housing policies. The compensatory housing benefit is currently linked to the GIR. And by way of a non-law proposal the requirements linked to income guarantee income, when we already have on the table the preliminary draft law of the Basque system of income guarantee for inclusion, because it does not seem appropriate to us. Because, in the end, you're going to get that concept out of a department to get you to housing policies, which is what you have to do. It's not... There's a problem. People who are at risk of exclusion, at risk of exclusion, have the problem of housing, but there are also more people who have that problem. You said that we were talking about the interprofessional minimum wage, of 9,000 euros for a living unit of a member, of a person. That is the maximum requirement for access - one of the requirements - to this right, the subjective right to housing, to be recognized. But you know what happens too? And it is that when it takes time to do things - and this is an eardrop, perhaps, to the Government, which has to develop the regulations and has to develop article 9 of the subjective right to housing - because it happens that, in the end, we remain half ink and that we do not cover all people who need it. The recently approved housing plan already stated that out of 10,000 persons -10,118 - who had applied for the benefit, the right, the recognition of the subjective right to housing, 4,000 persons had been denied the application. That is the problem: that we are not able to attend to all those who start the process of requesting a subjective right to housing. When someone... You don't have to think that people put documentation in the administration to see if it's his turn. When someone is concerned about filling in and wasting time - because it is a long time - when making a request of these characteristics, it is because there really is a difficulty. We have spoken here in this Parliament many times about how tense the housing market is, how difficult it is... the prices that existed in the rental market in free housing, that there are not enough public rental housing to meet the demand, and that, in the end, it is intended to replace a deficiency of past policies with a benefit. Well, of course, it is true that such a benefit is necessary, since many people are, at the moment, having it, and it is necessary for them to pay the rent of a decent home, in order to be able to meet certain costs. I'm going back to the... I'm only going to focus on the 9,000 euros of barred ceiling to access this one... to have recognized the subjective right to housing. With EUR 648 a month, like this barmo, it almost almost cost to breathe, because I no longer say to pay for a house. What we... And when you get to collect the SMI – the interprofessional minimum wage – that has now risen to 1,000 euros recently, because we're not boycotting either. And this has to be recognized, it's a reality. And you have to go out on the street and listen to people who have trouble paying their rent. When the housing problem is brought back to this Parliament, it is because there is a problem. That does not mean that we have to do it out of control and deal with the problem out of control. I agree with the members of the Socialist Party, and I would like to thank Mrs María Jesús San José for her willingness to reach agreement on this point. And it's just that we have to do things right. We've got to get on the road. We have to reform the law, the RGI, we have to reform the RGI. But, above all, we have to work to finish the... to finalize and continue the legislation of Law 3/2015, on housing, of the Basque Country. Only in this way will we be able to attend to and be close to citizenship: doing our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u93	Thank you, Larrea... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ...the Basque Country. Only in that way will we be able to attend and be close to the citizenry by doing our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínez-Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u95	Well, I forgot a page upstairs. Good morning and thank you. First of all, for us, in the name of Unai Fernandez de Betoño, we made a correction to add to the initiative which he introduced. And, of course, now we've signed a medium between the two teams, and that's what we're going to defend. One particular thing is demanded in this initiative which EH Collect has set before us today, and it does not speak, and we shall not talk about all the politics of the housing, but only about a particular thing. And therefore our answer was, that our correction was a certain and precise thing; and not to bring back this legislature, this Chamber, at the Housing Committee, I do not know, the consent and development of a decree which has tried ten, fifteen times, and which this decree requires, to be put into the hands of the Government. I haven't had the time to look at how many times he's tried it, but I'm sure it's ten. And I think there's a time when I don't want to try things like that anymore. As Mr. Fernadez de Betoño has shown, it is now a discussion of the conditions under which this subjective right of the housing is to be obtained; And then that's how it evolves if two people live in that house, or more than three people. But I think we can all agree with these quantities, they're so old-fashioned. It's been seven years since these quantities were established, and we all know how it's been during the minimum pay, both in the IPC and other things. On the issue of the minimum wage, the initiative pointed out, EUR 648.50 in 2015. Fortunately, this week he showed up at the... a decision in the State's Official Gazette at 1,000 euros, 1,000 euros for 14 pay, 14,000 euros. Persons who, according to these amounts, are now outside, are outside, of the amounts handled by the Department of Housing and the Basque Government for the recognition of the subjective right to housing. And amounts that thanks to the work of a lot of people. Among them, also those increases in the minimum wage promoted since 2018 by the United Nations We can in this first agreement of budgets, and then through the Minister of Labour, and with the social dialogue, to those 1,000 euros, that improves the quality of life of citizens. Unfortunately, the reality of the housing market throughout the State and especially here in Euskadi does not make us able to satisfy with these quantities what the private housing market is marking, in this speculative process that lives with that good which is a basic right for the citizenry, such as housing. That's why we played a fairly reasonable one, I don't know, a positivist, which EH Collect made, that promotion of 20%. And so, apart from the state of 2022, in order to give a solution in an integral manner, we introduced it to regulate our corrections and to appreciate the minimum rate of pay and the index of the IPC which is to be given in the following years. But, well, the initial amendment to this initiative, which, I say again, was very concrete, very concise, simple, not simple, and possible, and seeking an agreement, in my opinion, that is why we made that addition, the answer given to it - and I said it at the beginning - is a new agreement for the development of the law... the decree of the subjective right to housing. I hope that we will not reach the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the housing law without that decree. But, well, little by little we're getting closer, seven years, seven years to develop the central decree of... at least one of the centrals of this law. I was saying at first, I haven't counted, it hasn't given me time to count, how many times we have approved it, I too, and we and we too, a similar proposal. But do your homework. Do your homework in the government once, seven years later. Then comes a fight that you two have between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. It was further explained in the last legislature. There's no way in the Housing Department to handle that. Put them on. They have an absolute majority to approve the budgets. In the last legislature our amendments, also year after year, and in this legislature too, year after year, we introduce an amendment, always the same, now every time updated, that is, so that the Department of Housing has sufficient personal means. Have seven years not been enough to equip the Housing Department with human resources to manage the subjective right to housing? Then they complain when... even when we come to agreements, we say that in many housing matters the Basque Government... that is, the housing law was... aitzindaria izan zen Statu mailan, bai, but in many matters since the Basque Government is complacent, it is conservative in the enforcement of the law, conservative in the development of the law. But the data is on the table. Things are done, and many things are done well, but in the area of law... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... conservative in the execution of the law, conservative in the development of the law. But the data is on the table. Things are done, and many things are done well, but in the area of subjective housing law, in the area of decree and provision of means to the Government, a speed, a cruising speed does not seem to have this Government and it is a shame, because the legislation is there and must be implemented. And they will be able to say that it costs a lot, and I, yes, yes, but seven years seems excessive to us. And the same goes for point number three of your compromise proposal, and then there in point number four the reflection on income guarantee income and the reflection process. But it is a non-legislative proposal that drives the work of the Government. We could keep working, I don't carry that stuff, but they tell me that the consensus is not yet close. Therefore, it could be a good way to have offered a compromise proposal in which we put something concrete about the future of Income Guarantee Income, not because, well, in the context of reflection we are going to introduce these issues, because in my proposal for an addition I was talking about the Minimum Interprofessional Wage. I do not know whether there is going to be any specific section that we can agree on around the Minimum Interprofessional Wage and its relationship with the future Euskadi Income Guarantee scheme. Por Dot, I repeat, we shall, of course, protect the middle that we have signed with EH Collect. Governments and... Well, PP, PNV, PSOE and Populous Party have signed it, because it has nothing new. I believe that by the consent of him who has registered the action or the initiative, I think he deserts and deprives the original initiative of all possible value. And, well, again, our will was to find settlements around beautiful homes, which we did in the correct plan. But again, with all these empty things, we can't say yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u96	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. Today we are discussing a non-law proposal on updating the maximum income for the recognition of the subjective right to housing presented by the EH Bildu group. The Basque socialists defend the subjective right to housing, which makes housing a right that can be demanded by the courts, betting on the provision of a decent and adequate housing for every person who cannot afford it by their own means, the right to materialize through public rent, through a fair and sufficient financial benefit intended to pay the rent. And if already in 2015 from the opposition the Basque socialists managed to get the Basque Parliament to pass the Housing Act, in the last two legislatures from the government with Councillor Arriola at the front, they are laying the foundations for their legislative development. The rate of promotion of protected public housing, especially for rent, has increased in a very significant way, thereby increasing the protected rental housing stock managed by the Administration. Since 2020, 100% of the production originating in the public initiative has already been allocated exclusively to rent. A strong and exclusive bet today on comparative housing policies. A small community like ours has become in recent years a socialist management of which more protected housing has been built with more than 105,000 houses. The second in public park for social rent in absolute terms, with 26,000 dwellings in 2021. The second in direct public expenditure executed in absolute terms. The former in direct public expenditure, plus tax expenditure in absolute terms, and the latter in absolute figures of protected housing offered and specifically for rent in the last decade. Socialists are convinced that in order to achieve a fairer and more egalitarian society we must have a truly significant public housing park for rent, which responds to people who have difficulty accessing free housing, which responds to people who have difficulty accessing the free housing market. And that affordable public park must continue to increase it with the construction of uninhabited dwellings towards public supply through the Bizigune and ASAP programmes, and with programmes for the purchase of dwellings and buildings. And this action, given the initial situation, requires the implementation of sustained, consistent and resourced housing policies, and to deliver effective results requires long-term maintenance. There are no magic solutions in housing, and we have said that on more occasions. The successive and simultaneous outbreak of financial and real estate bubbles and the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic has led to a sharp increase in the population at risk of poverty, and this advance in inequality has to be fought with determination from the housing policy itself. And it has to be because housing is one of the most visible fields in which this phenomenon of exclusion and vulnerability is most visible, and it has become today a factor of exclusion more decisive even than unemployment, because the loss of housing triggers social exclusion. Equality must thus be placed on the front line of housing policy, because this current reality is a result of the prevailing economic, socio-economic inequality and radically moves away from the model of an egalitarian, democratic and solidarity society to which we want socialists to aspire. And the Department of Housing assumed from the beginning of its management that with regard to the development of the Regulation on the Subjective Right to Housing, in no case could the requirements on the income payable to beneficiaries of the subjective right to decent housing be higher than those laid down in the Income Guarantee Act and for social inclusion in order to obtain the Income Guarantee Income. That is, that no person with access to the Social Protection System will be harmed in their rights by the change of the system... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... obtain income guarantee income. That is, that no person with access to the Social Protection System was harmed in their rights by the change from the benefit system to the housing system, and that collectives with recognized subjective rights - the habitual client of the housing system - were harmonized by collectives who with different socio-economic requirements had access to the rental benefits of the social system linked to income security income. It was therefore a question of bringing together new groups and beneficiaries in a coordinated and harmonious manner. And this political pronouncement of the Housing Department has been the subject of repeated referendums in the form of motions and non-legislative proposals that have urged the Basque Government from the great parliamentary majority to continue on this bet and on this road map. Many working meetings have been held between the Deputy Housing Adviser, the Department of Employment and Social Policy and Lanbide - the Basque Employment Service, to try to bring the characteristics of the economic housing benefit, the supplementary housing benefit, as closely as possible and to develop such a transition plan between the two. Comparability is guaranteed today, and it implies that the practical realization - still internal - of upward adjustments in the three income limits specified in the Housing Act, and as a direct result of the consolidation and validation activity of both operating systems: income guarantee income and housing. As Mr Martínez Zatón said that he did not have the necessary jobs to take over the management of the supplementary housing allowance at the time of the entry into force of the pending decree, the Vice-Adviser chose - from Housing - at the time to paralyse the procedure for drawing it up. However, much progress has been made in the provision of adequate human resources for the management of all rental benefits linked to the subjective right to housing from the housing policy, thus resuming the processing of the above-mentioned decree on the subjective right to housing. And to those increases already consolidated at the internal level that I have pointed out, we must add new incremental adjustments that will determine the final figures of the maximum income of the subjective right to housing, and that have their origin in two new sources of law that we must follow, evaluate and add, where appropriate, to our housing system, and that are the law establishing minimum living income - Law 19/2021 - and the new draft law of the Basque Income Guarantee and Inclusion System that will be processed in Parliament this year, according to the legislative timetable. The entry into force of the Decree or the Regulation of the subjective right to housing must take place in terms that coincide temporarily with the new Income Guarantee Income Law to be discussed in the Basque Parliament. 2022 will therefore be the key year that will enable these final maximum revenue figures to be realized in the light of the political decisions adopted by Parliament. And this is what we have included in our compromise amendment, which we have jointly tabled by the Basque-Citizen Socialists, Nationalists and People. And I would like to thank Mrs Berasaluze and Mrs Larrea, well, for the effort to reach this agreement and this compromise amendment. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u98	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, all good afternoons now. Those of you who have spoken before me, as you have said, the Housing Act of 2015, I believe he established two boundarys in regard to the most beautiful houses which are to be developed chiefly from public institutions. On the one hand, it imposes a rent as the principal axis of this policy; and on the other hand, the confession of the subjective right to the apartment which we are speaking of today, is the right of being a house, and the obligation of the institutions. 4. During the transitory regulation of the law, the 9th. Whilst the regulations of the development which occur in the article were published, a legal institution of transition or temporary transition was established, which received the conditions which were required to be admitted to this subjective right. But even before me it has been asserted that those conditions, which were at first clear, could never have been different from the conditions required to ensure our present incomes, and that they could not have been greater. That is to say, a single person who had access to a protective system of society, when these preparations were changed, could never be excluded from the system. And because the citizens who are now engaged in the system of preparations for the housing occupy the conditions, they will gradually add the revenues to the revenues of the revenue to secure the revenues of the house which is annexed to the rent. And this has been something we have several times asked for here: You know, the person who's a real person, if you're aware that the system is a whole system, and that you're under control of it, that you're a couple of people in the world, and that you're in the first place, and that you're ready to pay for your life, and that you're a coccivo de peoples que vean reconocdo elchoo subjevo, en caso, en caso, cujoón emi de vicénda de viscindo queen queequiles parae parscier de viculis de gulenta de genta. Mr Martínezion said that we've asked several times here, and that we've agreed to continue the development of the housing law, and we've always asked him to accept that decree which will regulate or develop the subjective right... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... we have asked him to accept this decree which regulates or develops the subjective right. We'd like to be agreed and accepted a long time ago, but we all know that −eta has been discussed as well as that there have been difficulties on the road. And, in order to guarantee what I have said before, because the system has to work as a whole, and that no one who is benefited should remain outside, even that decree which will develop the subjective right must be done well. We believe that the two preparations which are now connected with the rent to ensure the incomes, and that which the Housing Law receives, are guaranteed to match. And do we believe that the boundaries of the revenue will also be to be updated upwards, when at first the decree of the subjective right is accepted, and in the updates which will afterwards be made to it, no? We believe that, by eliminating the supplementary housing benefit linked to the GIR and by giving way to the economic housing benefit regulated by the Housing Act, the limits that are temporarily established will be updated upwards, as it cannot otherwise be, first, by the decree of subjective law and then by its subsequent updates. And we believe that..., as Mrs San José has also said, all this legislation must be closely linked to the rules on minimum living income, which, fortunately, has already been transferred, and also to the new legislation that will regulate income security income, and that we hope that it will soon be dealt with in this Parliament. And in this way we believe that it will be ensured that no one remains, I insist, out of the system. And the social protection legislation that we know so far will have to be adapted to housing legislation and vice versa because, in the end, they are all part of the social protection system in Euskadi. Anyway, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, it's true that you've brought us a very accurate proposal today. And you said we agreed, didn't you? that, with the proposition you propose, those revenues should be raised, or at least must be rejected. And you make a definite proposition and a concrete one, which should be the sum of that promotion, and, as you think, you argue. You say four of the ten demands are not allowed from the demands of the subjective right, and often you say −, because these maximum incomes are often asked for from you. And that's what you said, that you took the housing from the data on the guide plan. I've got data from 2021, and what we've got here is − for once is that requests are cut off about 15%, but there's no explanation specified what reasons are on 15%. Probably, most of them are financial reasons, but let's say 80% of them is a financial reason. Well, it seems to me that it would be one of nine, maybe for that reason. But I will not deny that, in 2015, when these numbers were established, they had also a foundation, and that there was a foundation for the cause, and that they ought to update it. But perhaps again, we may have the discrepancy in the method with you, because I think it's 20% or as a promotion, I don't know where you get it. 'Cause you're saying, "The minimum salary between jobs has been a climb," 'I think you've got it in '64, or you're setting it up, and it'll be 13,300 dollars a year. But you propose that the maximum income of single-person families should be subjectively promoted to 10800. If you'd at least proposed 13,300, I'd think it'd be a logic. Then you draw a few porches and a few promotions, which I don't see for reasons at least for us that they're right. In these cases I always have a feeling that there would be a consequence of certain cabals. So if you agree with us, you also say that we agree with these revisions, and, furthermore, that these maximum incomes will probably have to be raised, as I said, our discrepancy is in the method. And that is why we said that this readiness to guarantee the income, or, well, that when this new law comes to Parliament, we ought to make use of that somovary examination which is made about it, even when the conditions of the subjective right to the apartment are established. And this will be discussed here, here it will be discussed, and I believe that this examination would be included even within a logic of the entire protection system. It is not, then, in our turn, to delay or delay things, but we believe that this is the method which ought to be used, and therefore we have not made a bargain, because we do not see it necessary, but because we do not share the method or the manner in which you propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any correction, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word. Mrs Martínnez grayish. Gracias, señora presidenta. Once again, we are talking about the social housing deficit that is dragging the Basque Autonomous Community, and that is also the real problem underlying the proposal that is being brought to us today by the Abertzale Left. A right that is based on Law 3/2015, of 18 June, on Housing, and that to this day remain undeveloped... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... proposal that today bring us the left abertzale. A right that is based on Law 3/2015 of 18 June on Housing, and that to this day is still not fully developed. And that, as you are well aware, many of its articles have been declared unconstitutional and null by the Constitutional Court, specifically in judgment 97/2018 of 19 September. In the Basque Country, any person who provides a registration certificate can benefit from the law and have access to a decent home. It can do so under the umbrella of what has been called "administrative neighbourhood", which is only the subjective right to enjoy decent, adequate and accessible housing in any of the municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community. Moreover, under this subjective right, all persons who are unable to rent a home with their own means, accrediting the lack of resources, may demand before the courts that the administrations provide them with housing to live in or, in a subsidiary way, that the Administration grant them an economic benefit for renting out of the free housing market. In addition, all Basques can do so and all foreign residents can do so through, as I say, the so-called "administrative neighbourhood", simply being registered. We already know that paper supports everything, but let's not be demagogues either. This is neither socially nor economically bearable. And it's not, we all see that. The most vulnerable cannot be forced to rely on a lifetime wage, and even less so at the expense of the rest of the Basque citizens, they do not deserve it either. The problem, therefore, is not solved by increasing income limits. This will only lead us to generate greater structural spending that will be borne by the rest of the citizens with new taxes or with more indebtedness in the public coffers. That is not the way, it is not the answer to the needs of social housing. Basques don't deserve to be fooled with a monthly paycheck. What they deserve is to be treated with dignity. They deserve this Government to solve the problem of root housing, taking for granted the real cause of the problem and encouraging an increase in housing supply in the Basque Country. In Vox we are clear, we are betting on legislation that solves the real cause of access to a home, which is nothing other than the shortage of supply. We bet an agile and effective administration to ensure that housing access grants are received by those who really need them. And we bet that the Basque Government stimulates the creation of a social housing park that covers the needs of the most vulnerable. We also bet on the massive development of social housing. We want the Administration to release all available public land and put an end to the artificial shortage. Only in this way will we be able to curb the unorbited rise in prices. In Spain and the Basque Country, access to housing has become a road full of obstacles for ordinary citizens, which in no way has been improved by the law, that this Government has shielded the illegal occupation of housing. Each and every Basque must have the opportunity to access a home where they can develop their life plan and form a family. And we believe that in this we must work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u101	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In answer, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u102	Hello again. Thanksgiving on the second round was the contribution to you Martínnez. I think it's a bit more round with that contribution because 20% of our demand was to update the subjective housing rights as well as we wanted it to be our immediate ingregation. At the point, applying from the beginning of 2022; and it is true that with your contribution this would be updated every year, considering the minimum wage and the evolution of the KPI index. So I think it looks more round like that. And to tell EAJ and PSE that we look sadly at the argument you've done with a pretext, because we've agreed in the past, we need to update these numbers, and that you haven't been able to update these numbers for seven years. You admit it, you don't quit it, you've even agreed to write in your correction, but then there's no excuse. You've figured out the right of housing in the law of the housing and the maximum incomes in − − RGI, you've got it mixed up with revisions of the law, and that's all you're doing with it, that's all you can do about delay. Worse still, you say that these maxims will be updated by a consideration of the revision of this law or the process of action. Klaro, the question is: Is the RGI bill on the table from May last year, if I'm not mistaken, that somovic study is now going to be now? It should be done sooner, shouldn't it? And I'll also ask you, I've already mentioned how the housing preparations should be updated 20% years ago. That's why we've asked you to increase 20% of these maximal incomes to make it consistency. Of course we could put 13,000 euros, and 35,000 euros, but we're very serious, and when we bring a proposition, we try not to ask too much to come to an agreement, so to speak. And I'm gonna ask you, what preparations, I'm starting to tell you, 20% of the time we asked for updates, here you voted no, and then you raised 10% in budgets. What methods have you used to raise 10% of the housing preparations? Mrs. Zaleski, you said you don't like our method, what methods have you used to raise 10% of the housing preparations? You've got five minutes to explain if you want. They're really excuses. What we have intended to do with this proposal was to open society's protection, and unfortunately for those families of Donostania, Hernanics, and those Eilei families I have just mentioned... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... and, unfortunately, we believe that those families of Donostania, Hertania, Hernanics, and Eibarian families, are too late to update, because we are sure it will come; and whether it is not too late for the rest of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u103	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Your word is yours, Your Highness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u104	From the seat, please, President. Let's see. What is clear - and I recognize the criticisms made - is that we have been seven years and that the decree for the subjective right to housing has not yet been developed. That may be why 4,000 Basques have been left without having recognized that right, because, in the end, the quantities have not been updated, nor has it even been updated how this decree on the subjective right to housing is to be developed, and these people may have been included. In the end, it is a small eardrop for having taken so long to develop an important part of Law 3/2015, which affects the Basques so much, especially at this time, when after a crisis, by the pandemic, that we have talked about health, then people have difficulty accessing a home and paying their rents. Therefore, we have reached an agreement with you, with the PNV and with the Socialist Party, but above all with the intention that this decree should already be developed to recognize the subjective right to housing and that Basques should be satisfied with their expectations for access to housing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u106	Thank you. All I've said on the first round to confirm it, and now I've noticed that a curious photo is happening with that medium that's signed. O Se, this law which we protected from without, EH Collect agreed to, the Socialist Party agreed, EAJ-PNV and Popular Party voted for it. And now, after seven years, we've got a discussion that's asked for once again, where EAJ voted against the law, and the Socialist Party urged the law, and they've agreed about it and leave it outside to two other parliamentary groups, that law we protected, right? What I mean is that it's a very curious photo, where two parties that voted or two parliamentary groups that voted against the housing law come to an agreement to develop it seven years later. And two leftist formations, which we support the law in one way or another, stay out for the simple reason that seven years later absolutely nothing has happened with regard to the decree of the subjective right to housing. And I think it has been said "well, it's that things have happened"; fuck, what's happened is a long time. Seven years to develop the fundamental decree of the housing law. Seven years. And the counselor tells me with his head that no, but there is an objective reality, is that there is no decree; update the income guarantee income, right now, today, neither, on what it is going to be based, either. And then, the detail that Mr Fernandez de Betono has commented seems important to me. Are they now carrying out the economic analysis on which the income guarantee income update is to be based when, in theory, there is already a preliminary draft and there has even been some previous presentation? I mean, what do we have to stay with? Then. I say again, the contribution was very concrete, the initiative was very concrete: the services are being updated. There seems to be will, but this does not go from will, it goes from black to white and from passing the decree and putting in the necessary mechanisms. It could not be valid what Euskal Herria Bildu proposed, it is not even valid; but it is that there has been no intention on the part of the Basque Socialist Party and Nationalist Party to negotiate, neither with them nor with us, something beyond, well, the adoption of the decree. Well, of course, how are you going to be against the housing law and the passing of the decree? And I'll leave the question on the table again. The interprofessional minimum wage has been updated from EUR 648.50 to EUR 1,000 this week. Will that be taken into account in the income guarantee income reform that you also want to link to housing benefits or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u107	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u108	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Yes, Mr Martínez Zatón, a housing law that we are glad that no one questions today, everyone claims, even though at some point some denied it. I think, come on, it's clear here. The Socialists not only want the amounts to be increased, we want the rights to be increased, adding new collectives and new beneficiaries, always in a coordinated and harmonious way. We do not agree with the proposal put forward by Mr Fernandez de Betoño, nor by Mr Martínez, nor at the time - I have already told him - nor in the form. I believe that if you come up with positions that you say 20% in 2022 and we say 10% in 2023, because with all due respect to your proposal, this is not a bazaar or we are trading with a scam; we are talking about people's rights, we are talking about the right to decent and adequate housing for people, for Basque citizens. Socialists understand that this final increase in the maximum income for access to the subjective right to housing should not be the result of any cabal, a 20, a 30, a 25, but the result of the analysis that we are saying that we must make socio-economic compatibility and complementarity, that the new rules that come to us advise us to compromise. And with regard to time, the two new sources of law that we must follow, evaluate and add to our housing system, which are the law of minimum living income and the bill of income guarantee... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...to add to our housing system, which are the minimum living income law and the income guarantee bill. The two aids, the economic housing benefit and the supplementary benefit, are condemned to merge; they have to be merged. And this year the complementarity of systems should be resolved by the development of the subjective right to housing. You bet, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, on extending social protection. And, well, if this was so important to you, of course, you did not make any amendments to the housing budgets. I will tell you: zero proposals in this area. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u109	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u110	Yeah. Mr. Fernandez de Betoch, you said you felt sad, that we only make excuses. Perhaps that's what happens to you. But I think we'll also have the right to the discrepancy, right? And the reason we can't agree with the gathering is that I've got to admit it to you. And I told you we need to update those maximum incomes. But we ought also to have the right to dissect, and not to share the method, which I think is free. And I think I've explained to you on the first round how we think we should do this revision. And so we received in our middle course, which might have been the agreement we might have had today. Now, yes, it is necessary to resist, but you too, when you answered in your offer, you made some excuse for this preparation, the housing, the security of the money, and I told you in the first round that we didn't know when the transfer of that new law is coming, and that it was all a pretext to postpone it, but I told you that it was all in turn. I believe that our support system is complete, because there are many people, many people, who nowadays receive additional preparations for the rent-related housing, which must be an orderly transition, as we have said several times, because no one can stop outside the system. And we all believe that this must be a joint examination, and that it is a proper time when this new law comes to this legislature, that all the groups have a chance to talk about it. And, perhaps, these incomes, whether equal or nearly equal to those maximum incomes, must be in order to acquire these presidencys in the whole system. And that's a little what I've been trying to explain in the first round. And, Mr. Martínez Zatón, you were talking to me about the fight between partners in the first intervention. I think it fights between partners not, but it is clear that the management of a benefit such as the RGI, with the complementary housing benefit, which has been made from Lanbide, and a transfer to the Housing Department, because, indeed, it has its complication, and all this has caused the decree of subjective law to be delayed. That I share with you, too, and I wish I'd been before, huh? Because I believe that I said in my first speech that one of the fundamental axes of the Housing Act was the recognition of subjective law. And that the processing of the right that has to regulate is being delayed so much, because, in fact, I don't think it's anyone's pleasure, is it? And, well, you also acknowledged that perhaps Mr Fernandez de Betaño's proposals were not valid, but you have had sex with EH Bildu today. So, I don't know if it's been the contribution that you've made that has improved that deal so much, that being not valid perhaps the proposals he makes remember, or, perhaps that photo that you were talking about that those of us who in your day didn't pass the law today we come together to demand that I don't know what... Maybe you're the one who, in those arrangements that we've had in the house and those that you've been in the picture with us, you've already liked it less and you want to come out in some different picture, right? Well, then, everyone will have to explain why they make the deals: if by the content, if by the photo... We are of course convinced that housing benefits cannot be decoupled from the rest of the social protection system that we have in Euskadi, and that the review of these maximum income requirements for citizens to opt for subjective rights cannot be decoupled from the rest of the benefits. And that was the position. And the position that we will always stand for, that even if at the time we had the criticism that we made of this housing law or the position that we held in this Parliament, we are people who comply with the laws when they are passed, and that is what it is right now. And we will work to ensure that they are developed and applied as they should be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Mist must not speak. So, since we've finished the discussion, we're going to vote with EH Collect and together with Podemos-Nodemos-Nodemoker corrections that have been signed by Anic. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u112	The middle-line correction has not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. You can vote. [[Pause]] [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the opponents, 28; abscessions, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-24.u113	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at twenty past three o'clock in the afternoon.
