ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "The monographic argument, the direction of the Demoography strategy that will take place in a decade, the priority and the most important initiative discussing, sharing, and specifying between the parlamentary groups." The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH Group, the wife of the Kortha, has the word to present and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President. Good morning, congressmen. Good morning, everyone. The future of this people is a subject which is of the greatest importance to draw the future of the people. The demographic discussion about the demographic strategy that's going to take place during a whole decade. We're talking about a strategy that can condition public policies for a whole decade. We'll discuss what is essential from a country point of view the Basque People's initiative once more. The second monographic discussion of the subject will be the monographic, and in March 2018 we had another discussion about the demographic, even then, in the event of Collecting the Basque People. We have often repeated, that in this legislature great challenges are gathered round the question of demography, and about elements that are not mentioned. In fact, it is about elements that are not probably mentioned that are really essential, and it may be that they remain without mentioning them. And the Basque Country is supposed to be the essential point of bringing them all to the center of the discussion. I mention this, how contradictory are the messages that come to us around the demography. We speak of a demographic crisis, which is believed to be experts in demography, when we are in the best condition we have ever had, when we are more efficient in the sense of demography. The ghost of what our public pensions will not be able to maintain, the fear is broken by saying: "It will not be enough for work in the future," but if trouble were not enough people to work, public pensions would be uncertain, even private ones, and that is not mentioned. We speak for the first time of democratic crisis, when all life is assured, when we are born, grown young, grown old, and often go into it without sickness or dependence. And when experts insist on its importance, this has never happened, it's a social achievement. Tenemos elvolumen de poblacion mundial más alto que hemos tenide en history y tumos hablando casi de la extinción, de haecatombe, de suidio demogáco, de invino demográco. We are told about the demographic winter, but few tell us what this demographic summer of desire would be, right? Which one would that be? That scene for the women to be eight children again? Would that be the demographic to summer? We don't know. And perhaps the most striking contradiction is to say that the situation we live in is a matter of primary concern, but then not to be in the middle of the social and political discussion, and that the attempts we attempt to lead to the state are wanting. A lot of contradictions in many improper use of data, but it is true that in this vortex of contradictions the restaurants interested in a supposed demographic crisis are victorious. To increase the rate of birth becomes one object in such cases, a national end, as President Urkullus had said during the preceding law. And thus the rate of birth becomes an alibi for political decisions. That's a perfect excuse, almost scientific standards. A speech of fear is used by people to have children, to answer or pay attention to the necessities of economy or production, and to answer the necessities of care that remain behind their backs. And that doesn't make any sense to us. In fact, it's not ethical. Our lives are demureized. The bodies of women are used for political purposes. The division of parts between men and women is not questionable, and the patrician relations are reborn. It's the interesting and impossible tests that we've got for us, who plan the meaningless solutions. And for this reason, we think, we need a change of look from the root, because in the frame in which it prevails, the debate that is essential remains behind without giving it. We must enlarge the view and go to the hinges, and therefore it is essential to the Basque People to set up another frame for the challenge we have in hand, to unite other orders, other variables to dispute. For, after all, to obtain a demographic ephiology, a tolerable and just demographic model, better guarded by people, assisting the concerts, making it easier... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... The demographic, the demographic, the bearable and just demographic model, assisting, improving, improving, strengthening, strengthening, strengthening, and refractory activities, is effected not by the patrician relations, but by seeing the measures proposed, and the public policies proposed to re-establish the question of equality, and by establishing new equilibriums. I'd say there's no other recipe. And it is that, as we pointed out in a previous debate on demography, we have a major challenge in relation to this issue. But that challenge has more to do with good living than with birth rate. It has to do with balances and imbalances. It has to do with breaking an unfair system and moving together towards other models. It has to do in generational terms with something that was pointed out by the demographer Julio Pérez in a recent interview, that we have some generations of people with a starting point that had never existed, and that what we have to do is that they don't get hurt in life. And the first years, as well as the integration into adult life, are fundamental. That's what we should be taking care of, that's what we should be talking about. And from that point of view we should be very present what the Aubix Foundation has said, right? : As a people we see at this moment an inevitable and threatening boundary, a chink spreads between generations of men who have been getting older and getting older than their parents and their grandfathers, and who have been robbed of their certainty when they enter their adult age. In Europe, when age of the younger population is 26 years old, this is more than 30 years old, one of the highest in Europe. We should be able to renew the pact between generations. And not only that. Even if this discussion has something to do with the Euscal Democracy of Patriarchia Jule High House Menchasa and the working companies with him, isn't it? Euscal is on the back of old families in society, on the back of women. The example of the family is the fundamental column of the EAE welfare, and that today, 90% of household chores, is on the back of women. But the long term will also be explained to increase the coarse generation substitution. And therefore, unless modern policies for the protection of society begin, we women, who are either present or absent, must be very much burdened with care and care. And we're not ready for that. We've already told you all those eight o'clock in March that came after each other. And we're half this town. Don't forget. The care of care is usually a public one of those debates that remain unrecorrupted on the demography. And, of course, we must discuss how we should be guarded by the conditions and conditions of those public policies, which are necessary to answer, in order to be properly individualized, for the sake of self-preservation. The social health organization of care is a necessary discussion. And there's another curious thing about things you don't mention. To increase the rate of birth, President Urcullu told us it was a national goal, as we said before, but to have EAE children is a factor of poverty. But the expense and logistical problems, which the growth of children is supposed to be, do not socialize. The political and responsibilities of this demand are not derived from public politics. And we'll have to talk about that, too. Nor is there any talk of the opportunity cost of having children for women. Between the ages of 25 and 49 the difference between the employment rates of women and men without children is not significant. Things change when we talk about workers with children. Parents have an employment rate of 18 percentage points higher than that of mothers. Moreover, the data show that for them employment rates tend to increase when they have offspring, while for women they fall. It is not mentioned that women's lives in the EEA have worsened in the last ten years; and, above all, those who have decided to face maternity alone. And it's been a long time, probably the age of women to have children for all that. He is rising also in Araban, in Gipuzia, and in Biscaia, the inequality of society, and the most extreme poverty; uncertainty, vital condition, costing the prices of the housing, is an inevitable discussion in the demographic debatae. Aste honetako berria says: "the price of housing rises in Donostia almost twice as much as the rent in the last five years". Then they will tell us that the donostiaras are very exquisite, because we want to grow old, become older in our neighborhoods. I tell you one thing: without addressing job insecurity, without addressing residential insecurity, we can already make the pin in the strategy... So we can talk about all this, too, because if I don't say it, we can make the pin. And among those things that are not mentioned, there is a want of hand in speaking of demography as of great concern. It's coming from private sector, and it's gonna have to come too, but we're so fragile about what we've been through and what the public services have been about, and what we've been through our fucked, is there anyone in this country thinking about the future of public services? We're getting organized who'll heal us in the future, for example, when we get sick? Who's going to take care of the education of our children or grandchildren? The public transportation? What about the administration work? We also work in our pants, because it's a basic discussion about public services when we're talking about demography. And migrations too. Different reasons between them, leaving their people to us about the flow of those who reach us, and the reception to which they are to be received. Of the ten children born in this part of this people, they are the children of three foreign parents. And not only this, but also the movements and effects of those which lie within our limits from the parts of the country to the cities. And of course we'll have to talk about independence. Because we want to decide the future of our country here. We here and now want to decide the future and order of our country... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... We'll have to talk about it, too. Because we want to decide the future of our country here. We here and now want to decide the future and order of our people. Here and now. We wish to decide here on all those disputes which are mentioned and which are not mentioned upon the return of Demograph. And we can't talk about today, and we'll have to discuss this too, if we want the demographic strategy to be a strategy of success. But if the demographic challenge is anything, it is a controversy about the means and the politics which we place in our socially constructed lives. I'd like to bring around the subject what I'm saying about Irani Mogollón sociologists and feminists of economics. He says −eta as he has said, because I think it explains much better than I do that the biographics of life are the effects of naturalized standardized life-climbers; and that our daily and selections follow the course of these cycles of life. The functions of every ideological period, or of every age, are performed by the individual. On the narrative of the life cycle that has been constructed socially. From these collective images, this narrative will, in a great measure, define the place of society. Education, employment, partner, mortgage, children, jubilation. We build life's strategy and tactics on that collective map we inevitably have in mind. And by this means, socially, our spectivative lives, as well as public resources and politics. And he says the crisis that followed each other in the past decade has extended and deconsed the phases of that cycle, unbalanced. Fase's ruptures and interferences have increased. Longing over high school, stalling, age enough to have children. The prevention of the operation, the opportunity for building a career of work, has rendered them almost impossible. These instability and rupture have made life a fragile project, and the lack of strategy prevails among the people. And that's no big deal. The breach between the cycles of life that had occurred between generation and generation has brought us back to life's cycles. Like, when you're 50 years old, you're out of work and the situation they have to go back to their parents. Many of the former generations have built their unstable lives from their former stability: their parents left a house, or received help to enter a house; they were kept in custody by labors, and brought up children. But what happens when a permanent generation disappears? The distractions between experience and what happens after life are clearly seen in what has been recently published by the cabinet for the sociological projections of the demographic challenge. If we want to create permanent alternative structures and strategy to support life, it is indispensable to finen the fragility and instability that we are living. We must come to the rebuilding of individual and collective courses, which have been connected with these endless crisis, and set up public policies and resources which are directed to it. And I dare say that Irant Mogollón has described the matter so well that it is so important. That's why I want to propose a starting-point because we have to share the starting point because we have to understand each other. We don't have a demographic problem, we have a demographic challenge. The challenge to promote a demographic, efficient, just and bearable example. A challenge of reconstruction of individual and collective courses of life, and a challenge of building and establishing public policies which are thus adapted to it. A challenge to reduce fertility and build new security. And for this purpose, as has been said by Aimea Ottaegik, mayor of the Redery, it is indispensable that we should consider each other about what we want in this country. Debemos planetranos qué queremos que pase, y actuor para sea possible. But the goal is not only to answer the present state. We must question them to-morrow too, and we must proceed with ambition to anticipate them. And today's discussions offer us an interesting, useful occasion. And what did it bring us, or what didn't bring us? In the midst of the vortex of cares about demoography, last December, the legal teams, we'd been informed by email that in this law there was a trial about a demographic challenge, with other institutions. For 2030 years he sent us documents to define the contents of the Basque Strategy, which, in principle, were intended to identify the primary elements of a shared strategy. And they thought it right to make a part of the process. And we were told by the president, that we were sent to the teams to make our contributions through the range. In front of a matter of size, our contribution was considered appropriate to follow through the tramital. Climbing a virtual behavior for the citizen for a decade of ours. I dare say there is no more clear metaphor for the government of this government. I believe that, being honest, as is said in the first part of the document, the question of a democratic state is of the highest importance, it demands another discussion; it demands political debate, and demands the other side of the process. At least that's what we understand, and that's why we called the monographic. It is said in this line of the Document that this is a matter of priority, but it is true that the matter is not in the middle of the political debate; and it is not, and is also not allowed to be so in the document. And to tell you the truth, I didn't make any particular effort to give you that centrality. The documents you sent me to think about, and we could say that, compared to the other essays that were made by fun, the point of view spreads. It is done that a more comprehensive description of the demographic status, which does not confine itself to the rate of −, although afterwards it is made to guess at the eternity of different revolutions; and that the focus is made to promote the rate of birth, because that is the end of the government. And it's not rethinking, it's not... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... that the focus is put on the purpose of promoting the birth rate, because that's the end of the government program. And it is not rethinking, it is not re-forming after reflection on this strategy. A wider and more recent plan presents itself to us, which we may share in several parts, but afterwards we meet with the auto-combination of this government, and at another time we find very little exact attempts to attain to the subject. We are faced with the objective reality of this Government, which may be in line with its wishes, but which has little to do with the reality offered by the data. And the mill of the situation we live in is denied the want and failure of the efforts that have been made before to lead us to a state. They come to terms somehow, don't they? Too late to spend the cost, the young economy, the state of work, the price of the housing... But all these are described as somehow atmospheric phenomena. As if the political selections made in these years had not been active and active by public policies, and they have been affected by it. There are parts, too, that may be said to be fictitious. A rating which, for instance, is made on the development of social services. The law of developing Euscalal Social Services was tested in 2008. And you've made a choice, and that's the public system, that's the public system we can't handle. And that has consequences, for example, in the old-time interest that's offered them. The attention offered to the people who are dependent on us has been lowered for three years, and there has been no Normative development, and the most difficult forms of privatization are embraced. But still a positive balance is made. And what to say about the balance of the family and children to protect them? We've often introduced him to you in 2018, in a very awkward manner, in a very different manner, and there the President Urkullu made two ends for himself. One: To increase the birth rate, we're in history. And two: to reduce children to poverty, and to raise them visibly. This is an irrefutable reality. Furthermore, there has been no convergence with Europe in terms of family support policies, nor has there been any greater investment, as expected, at all. The gate of this treaty was the plan of the IV Family, and many actions planned there, e.g., the system of family traffic, hasn't it? Pandemy is an excuse, I think we should be more serious. By the way, there was no mention in the document of the monographic plenary held at that time, nor of the agreements reached. And it is not mentioned that the plenary, perhaps because many of those agreements, some of which were very interesting, four years later remain unfulfilled. Today, both agreements and the importance of these agreements will be discussed, and I share that, I would like to stress the value of keeping the word, of keeping the agreed. You must have adotutakoa betetzeak adotutakoaren also gogor guarantee duel. It's important to observe, to build solid foundations, to start from an incredible balance of what's been done before, otherwise we can't. And we have to admit that we come from a state of failure. And there is a gap that from our feminis position there is an important void, and it is not in strategy how the genus view is recorded. In a very small way, there is scarcely any one to be met with, and in this subject we should say it is the void and defect of size. We share that, as we say in the document, we must admit, that the complexity of the reality before us is terrible. But don't make that complexity an excuse. And we agree, as he puts it in the document, that there is no clear answer to answer certain questions which may be keyed to the subject. That's right. We do not know, for example, what would be the most useful measure of every one's having as many children as he pleases. But it must be admitted that though a rapid and easy solution may not be discovered, nothing is an option. That it's not an option to insist on answers that don't approach our targets, like what happens with the family system. It will sometimes be proved, experimented, and risked in this complexity; and sometimes it will be discovered, and sometimes not. And it is as true as all this that it is important to ask the question rightly whether the keys or the keys are keys, and to identify the real questions, not to disturb them. And we think there are some clear questions: whether the question is to be a child or not, which political measures are to be activated. That's the question to ask. How to guarantee that freedom, how to guarantee equality to parent. We have to ask ourselves how we want to be looked after, and how we'll be watched. We have to activate the public services or politics in which we enter to complete the experiments we have for our arteries. How do you expect him to get a watch? What sizes will we activate the watch field to activate it from the preventive? What kind of social policy are we going to activate in order that the care of these women may not remain behind? What measures must be taken to upset or socialize the differences in the structure of men and women, and to share or socialize the possibilities of parenthood? How do we create worthy conditions of life for those who decide to form a family, and for all others? What public policy do we have to activate the growth of children, the care, and the problems they produce? What real measures should we take to activate young men's lives in projects? How shall we renew the compact between generation and generation? How are we going to organize the record of generations in this country to ensure a strong and quality public service? These, I think, are the questions we ought to have a compass, and we ought to put round them the direction, the priors, and the principal measures of this strategy. Unfortunately, the strategy we've been presenting is a strategy to very little change things. The measurements you plan are not modifiers. The display does not change. The subject doesn't have a life... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... We think it's a strategy to change things very little, but the measures you plan are not modified. The display does not change. The match does not offer the chance to create an alternative framework and strategy revolutionization of life. He doesn't offer a chance to end up with this fragility. He does not even embellish the emotional and political effects of this fragility, because he has political effects, which arise from certain extreme fragility and lack of answer. We do not know this because there is no answer to any such questions as such, because the government is undone, or because there is no integrity in making any profound alterations which these questions or questions require. We don't know that, you'll have to answer. But here we must answer a question: Are we prepared to give the leap which supposes the modification of a just and tolerable example? Or do we want to continue to maintain the status quo and content ourselves with improving certain accounts? It's been four years, by a violent pandemia, and it's obvious that there hasn't been a leap in years. We've continued forever, chained to conventional thoughts and actions. Are we going to continue this way until 2030 years, or are we gonna jump? We believe that the leap is the time to give that leap. We need a conscious political script to respond in an intelligent, planned, direct manner to the challenge we have in our hands. And we believe that in this we may have a very helpful view of the suffering of life. If we wish to achieve a permanent and direct social and demographic pattern, we must build this conscious political script on a strategy on the two axiss: public policies, which are intended to promote the changes of social organization, must be collected on the first bank, and on the second, the series of public policies which have been directed to remunerate the worthy life of persons. In this double strategy, the proposals which we have brought to this monographica, have been introduced in the attempt to alter the narrative of the cycle of life which is socially built. The new and happier experiments of life being directed to erect, and to re-establish worthy lives, and foresee public means and politics to do so. Hence we have proposed, among others, a universal preparation of 150 euros per month for each child, which the children would receive at least 18 years. It's like Germany, Denmark, Belgium and Ireland. Convergencia con Europe. These universal preparations do not help to increase the rate of birth, but they promote the welfare of society, and it is scientifically demonstrated that children are the most efficient measures against poverty. The same way we set up the transport for the children between 0-12 and the flux of the bottles. Among the young intermediates between 18-23 we have also proposed a pilot of the basic income as a measure of advancement. To guarantee the right to the worthy and universal custody of people in the process of creating a new handmade. A new departmental organization that would have that addiction of the part. Limiting the price of rents and general reduction of labour by 4 days and 32 hours of work week. And I'm done with it. I think I'm directing the −eta, president, that we have a special responsibilities to decode the challenge we've in hand, and give you new security in these times of uncertainty. We have a chance to demercanize life, demerctilize its dignity, to charm happiness, and vital life. And the other day I'll end up with the intelligent Joseba, Professor EHU, who reads an article, not around the subject, but I think he's doing very well. "I do not know whether we shall succeed properly in the demographic challenge, in obtaining this just and more bearable example. I don't know if we can end life by fragility. But it is not written that the people of this part of this country cannot be more just, more democratic, more feminist, more ecological, and less anxiety. We've got a lot of time." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing to the rest of the teams, Mistto-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. It is obvious that the demographic phenomenon is a matter of concern, not only at the national level, but also at the international level. The United Nations itself confirms through its reports what is a secret to voices, and is that the world's population is ageing because of two fundamental factors such as: the increase in life expectancy and the reduction in birth rates. It is clear that the changes that are taking place in the size, composition and distribution of the world's population have significant consequences for achieving improvements in key issues in the future, such as economic prosperity, social welfare and infrastructure development. Ultimately, ageing and the lack of generational relief complicate our future as a society and compromise the future on the sustainability of resources and, therefore, the provision of public services. Public services increasingly required by citizens. And, therefore, we must establish and articulate measures to ensure an adequate delivery of them and also for future generations. The institutions on many occasions fall into the mistake of taking action in the short term. The immediacy, agility and immediate response to citizens' demands should not be constrained by an institutional vision that allows policies to be designed with perspective. Public policy planning must be a key element for any government, anticipating preventive measures to future scenarios. And demography must be an essential element for any institutional leader. The European Union has been warning of the growing demographic imbalance and has urged member countries to develop a demographic policy framework with the help of different social partners. It also encourages member states to... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Member States to develop a demographic policy framework with the help of different social partners. It also encourages Member States to promote appropriate, innovative and coordinated policies that provide families with different types of support, through a range of measures such as paid permits, child benefits, housing subsidies and tax deductions. At the national level, there are also different reports designed by relevant experts advocating for family support and reconciliation policies, for promoting measures that favour orderly, regular and secure immigration, and even for incorporating demographic impact into the development of laws, programmes or investment plans. The Basque Country is not alien to this reality, quite the contrary; the decline in birth, the increase in the age of motherhood and the greater longevity of our population have resulted in a very remarkable population ageing. The increase in life expectancy undoubtedly implies an expression of the success achieved as a society, but this should not mean the ageing of our society if it is accompanied by the necessary generational relief. The situation in the Basque Country responds to a structural model that emerged mainly during the 1970s and 1980s. The different economic crises that we have suffered, the de-industrialisation process, the financial crisis or the pandemic that we have suffered recently have contributed negatively to aggravating the demographic problem that we suffer. There are worrying data in our autonomous community: the birth rate has fallen exponentially; in 1975 we had a birth rate of 19.75 %; in 2020, 6.73 %. In addition, we are below the average of other neighbouring regions, such as Navarre, with 7.67%. According to Eurostat, in 2020 14,721 children were born, 697 fewer than the previous month, 5.1% less, the lowest number of births since 1941. Another factor to be taken into account is the age at which Basque women decided to have offspring: 35% of Basque mothers had children between the ages of 30 and 34; 33%, between the ages of 25 and 39; and 13%, between the ages of 25 and 29. The figure is similar to the age group above 40 years. Delaying the age of parents to have offspring, as is the case in the Basque Country, where the latter is above 35 years old, conditions in a very significant way the possibility of having a greater offspring. On average, Basque women have 1.28 children, a very small amount to prevent the ageing of the population and ensure generational relief. This figure, moreover, is far from the 2.1 minimum figure that is estimated to be necessary to maintain the population, and far from the average number of children in this community of 2.75 per woman in 1976. As previously stated, the Basque Country has also experienced an increase in life expectancy. This increase has been in parallel with the decline in birth, which irreparably leads to a progressive ageing of our society. Living longer is good news, no doubt, but our goal as a society must be, in addition to prolonging our longevity, to do so with quality of life, and this is a remarkable cost. With regard to the future, the situation is not very positive: the projections of the future population hope for a percentage increase in this ageing that will almost double the current one. Eustat projects a population by 2050 of 554,000 people who will have exceeded the 65-year threshold. This population will then account for 38% of the total population. The future demographic picture presents an ageing society in which almost four out of ten Basque people will be elderly. Therefore, the scenarios present, but also future projections, hope that we must take urgent measures to try to contain and subsequently reverse the ageing of our population. During the 2016 investiture debate, the lehendakari expressed that the demographic was one of the four major challenges of our autonomous community. He expressed that our territory had the challenge of developing social and demographic policies that faced the progressive ageing of society and the need to foster birth. To this end, it committed itself to promoting an inter-agency strategy for population reversion and rejuvenation through policies to support families and children. It is clear, however, that the strategy and policies pursued by the Basque Government, in order to prevent the ageing of the population, have not yielded the expected results, on the basis of present data and future projections. We will not say that policies have not been articulated in this regard. We will not say that nothing has been done, but it is clear that we must improve, complement and implement existing measures with new measures. The Basque Government itself recognizes in its inter-institutional plans the importance of the decrease in fertility, the weight of children in the Basque demographic structure, the delay in the age of first birth or the reduction in the average number of children. Different studies indicate that one of the main factors for having children is the economic situation, a personal situation that each couple has. We are aware of the high cost of having children: food, clothing, education at different stages of life. All this accompanied by wages in many precarious cases involves a brake and a firewall for the impulse of birth. The unemployment rate for young people is around 18%. And this, together with the fact that, once they are incorporated into the labour market, they receive a precarious wage, delays the chances of having offspring. We therefore need stable and well-paid jobs for our young people. We need our young people to have the capacity to be emancipated and to form an autonomous and independent family project. Youth is the future of our society. Our young people need opportunities, they need tools to create their vital projects with guarantees as a formula to combat population ageing. Access to housing is another key element in this case. Young Basques between the ages of 18 and 34 allocate 58% of their wages to pay the fees for the purchase of their first home... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... Young Basques between the ages of 18 and 34 allocate 58% of their wages to pay the fees for the purchase of their first home. And in the case of rent, this percentage is 54 %. As a conclusion in this section, we see that the cost of housing involves a very considerable consumption of economic resources, of the salaries of our young people. It is more than obvious that housing is a key element for anyone who wants to emancipate himself and have his own vital project. If access to housing means allocating more than half of their income to the payment of housing, this certainly has direct consequences for our young people, not only to delay the age of having children, but also to influence, for obvious reasons, the number of children they will have. Therefore, low wages and expensive housing constitute a cocktail and a difficult combination to reconcile with an increase in birth rate leading to a rejuvenation of the population. Surely more than one of you will ask the same question that I can ask myself: How will Basque youth be encouraged to have more children if with the famine of life they arrive at the end of the month in a very tight way? The lack of measures to reconcile work and family life is undoubtedly another major obstacle to combating population ageing. It is common to hear the different institutional leaders talk about the need to improve the reconciliation of family and work life. And it is true that we have made much progress, but that there is still a good way to go. Excessive in-personity in work places or inflexible hours not adapted to family needs are two of the clearest examples of the rigidity of the existing work model. The fight against ageing requires the synergies of all actors in society. And first of all, and setting an example, there must be the Basque administrations. The data is not misleading and some of them should blow the alarms. Over the past six years, the percentage of young Basques who rule out paternity has tripled. In 2016, the percentage of population who did not want to be parents in the 18-29 age group was 4%, while at present it is 15%. We are therefore faced with a worrying situation where 15% of our young people do not even think about paternity. And this trend is also manifested in the next age group. The desire not to be parents of people between the ages of 30 and 45 has also increased here, from 6% to 14%. And concern not only stems from the figures, but to a greater extent from the trend, which has almost quadrupled in just one litre. And according to the demographics, it's going to grow. But there are also situations in the opposite direction. There were women who wished to be mothers and their right to motherhood was not sufficiently protected. We are referring to those women, in general young women, who because of their economic vulnerability or because of family or social pressures want to continue with their pregnancy, but, given the lack of necessary coverage, are forced to abort. The progress of this country defends freedom so that women can freely decide to interrupt their gestation process; unfortunately, not a single word to defend the right to continue their pregnancies and to be mothers to all women who wish to do so but under different circumstances cannot materialize it. Undoubtedly, there are two main factors to be taken into account when dealing with the phenomenon of demography. On the one hand, as we have treated so far, the phenomenon of birth. There is certainly another element that is helping and can help to curb the progressive social ageing, and this is nothing other than the immigration phenomenon. Today, according to data from Eustat, 22% of women who have been mothers in our community are foreign nationals. It is evident, then, that foreigners are helping to rejuvenate our community, as many of them are young and of childbearing age. But the undoubted and necessary migratory resource should not be understood as an open door policy and an exalted cry of roles for all of us. We understand immigration as an orderly and regularized process where those who come to reside in our country benefit from its advantages, but, in turn, also contribute to its obligations. The Basque Country has been a land of emigration and immigration. We went as immigrants in times past to American lands and in the middle of the 20th century we went directly to parts of Europe. Countries such as France, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany welcomed us, and so we were able to contribute to the development and advancement of those countries. But, yes, always from an orderly and regularized immigration. The creation of jobs, therefore, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, is undoubtedly one of the star measures. Economic aid, decent wages, access to housing, birth promotion, measures to promote the reconciliation of work and family life and immigration. Ageing and increasing life expectancy are a collective achievement that we have achieved as a society. The challenge, of course, is to live longer, but also to live better. This requires a generational shift that contributes to the sustainability of the system. Aging entails a significant increase in public spending - and that is something we all know. And that, moreover, if it is not compensated by a generational relief of taxpayers, we run the serious risk, in addition, of suffering a deterioration of our public services. A deterioration, moreover, no less. A deterioration that can affect all public expenditure. Expenditure on pensions, health care or residential care, with an increasing number of dependent people, is a good example of the massive public expenditure that entails the ageing of the population. Citizenship is increasingly demanding, requiring public services in line with the fiscal effort it has made over many years of effort and dedication. And, therefore, the response of all administrations must be commensurate with the demands of the citizenry. We can't settle for bad-paying excuses. We must make an effort to bring all this up to the citizen's demands. The problem is that so far we have not applied any shock treatment. We have simply prescribed an extremely conservative treatment, which we see is not causing the patient to react. We must act with agility, since in the Basque Country we are in a process that is also known as overageing. This refers to the number of persons in the subgroup of persons over the age of 80. At present, our community has censuses of about 158,000 people over 80 years of age, of whom 33,000 are already over 90. And the projections... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ...about 158,000 people over the age of 80, of whom 33,000 are already over 90. And population projections indicate that this trend will continue to grow; therefore, in the Basque Country it is no longer just a process of ageing, but, as I have said, we are facing an over-ageing as a society. Better living conditions, improved public health and advances in medical technology, among other factors, have led to an increase in the life expectancy of the Basque population. And, as I said, this phenomenon has considerable impacts, for example, on the public pension system. In the Basque Country the average pension is 1,320 euros. Pension expenditure in the Basque Autonomous Community for the year 2020 totalled EUR 9,667 million. This figure accounts for about 67% of the tax-based out-of-pocket revenue collection, so the reality is that with the current system, based on contributions, our community accumulates an annual deficit, for example, in the year 2020, which is considerable, reaching EUR 4,186 million. These data reflect a worrying reality, a reality in which expenditure on pensions is unsustainable already today, but the future scenario is even more worrying, as, taking into account the twofold factor of the increase in life expectancy, together with the decline of the young population, together with a dwindling rate of activity, they draw a very unflattering picture. It therefore urges measures to help rejuvenate our population and ensure generational empowerment. This rejuvenation is essential not only to alleviate the pension gap, but also to maintain the package of benefits and services offered by our welfare State. And this rejuvenation of the population, and by extension of our labour market, is also threatened by the flight of young people seeking better job opportunities outside our territory. Of the total migrations that occurred in the Basque Country during the financial year 2020, 45% were from 21 to 39 years of age, a total of 14,200 young people. Of these, 59 chose the national territory as their destination, and the rest went abroad. And another worrying fact, too. A notable part of this group responds to people with a high-skilled profile. One of the reasons, though not the only one, is, of course, the rigidity of the language policies that exist in access to public employment in the Basque administrations. If in the Basque Country a citizen wants to choose a position of official, or dominates the Basque, or otherwise, he will have to leave his land in order to gain access to a post of official where there are no linguistic impositions. I would ask you: is it right that a Madridn, Albacetian or Onubese cannot opt for any position in the Basque administration for linguistic imposition? And on the contrary, a vizcay, praised or gipuzcoan, can he do it in Madrid, Albacete or Huelva? Finally, throughout this speech I have expressed that demographics are not only a problem that affects the Basque Country, indeed, but here, in this territory, in addition to the specificities that we have been listing, we have had our own demographic problem. I am referring to the demographic impact of ETA terrorism for four decades. It was tens of thousands of Basques who were forced to emigrate to other parts of Spain as a result of the threat of terrorism. This fact has produced a major alteration in our sociology, and in particular in our electoral sociology, which has also been adulterated by terrorist pressure. And I sincerely believe that this fact deserved a reference today, although some are very interested in forgetting this fact. In conclusion, we must make it very clear that the demographic phenomenon is going to be the main condition in the medium and long term in modern and industrialised societies in the future. We must be aware that the ageing of society is a success, but it certainly entails serious commitments and obligations for all institutions. This session cannot lead to a barren debate, where it ultimately only translates into a simple parliamentary procedure. From here, a clear and unequivocal commitment must emerge, based on the awareness that we are facing one of the great challenges of the present in order to be able to address a future with full guarantees. Long lights must be a fundamental tool of any institution in planning and developing its policies. We cannot fall into the self-congratulation of the moment, in the immediate resolution, avoiding planning with perspective, because planning also means solving the future from the present, solving the vital project of present and future generations, and solving how we want our lives to be in the not so distant future. We must lay the foundations, build the foundations and pillars of the future building on which we will rest as a society and as a collective. A solid foundation and pillars that allow this building, which will also have to bear large budgetary burdens, to bear the collective weight of the demands and demands that Basque citizens will demand from us. We're running out of time, ladies and gentlemen, and I think we're taking advantage of it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u5	Thank you, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. We are face to face with an important Plenus, and I dare say one of the most important Plenos of this law. The action and the approach of the public authorities to the demographic challenge, without doubt, is a complex but inescapable issue, especially for a society like ours, whose figures are worrying, and are among the worst compared to other places... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... especially for a society like ours, whose figures are worrying and are among the worst compared to other places. The factors that clearly condition aging processes are the fall in birth rate and fertility. It should be noted, as I said, that our Autonomous Community is more intense than in the rest of the Autonomous Communities and countries in our environment. I will use some of the data handled by the Basque Government itself, which certainly speak for themselves. In Euskadi the number of births in 2018 was 5.8 less than in 2017, according to Eustat; in the five-year period 2012-2017, the number of births in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country was 7.8 per 1,000 inhabitants, the second lowest rate in the European Union; the rate in Spain is 8.4, the European Union average is 9.9; and in 2020 14,720 children were born in Euskadi, 697 fewer than in 2019, and 6,000 fewer than in 2008 - the year of the crisis. The issue of the demographic challenge, being a cross-cutting and interdepartmental issue, can be addressed from various areas, such as the family, conciliation, employment, education, among others, where a range of public policies that reverse the situation need to be deployed. The handling of public powers and the treatment of the demographic challenge is a troubling matter, but it is to treat them as quickly as possible. Especially because our social figures are disturbing; and, compared to other places, they are oldest. The factors that cause the process of growth are as follows: and the decay of birth and fertility in our community is more manifest than in other communities. The demographic subject has been indirect and numerous, and may be treated in many ways; family Unition, employment, education. In these cases it is necessary to spread a great number of public policies in order to turn the situation around. At the level of the United Nations and the European Union, this reality has been addressed through various reports and documents, including the following - apart from the 2030 Agenda itself -: the World Population Outlook 2019 report; the Document on the way forward in the face of demographic challenges; the Green Paper on Ageing; Promoting Solidarity and Accountability among Generations; and the Demographic Panorama Report of the European Union Territories. At the national level, it highlights the 2030 national strategy against the demographic challenge, which defines depopulation, ageing and the effects of the floating population as axes of action. In Euskadi we're late. Despite the harsh reality of the data that are systematically placed on the table, and of the covers and pages that occupy this issue in the media. Lehendakari himself defined the demographic challenge in 2016 as one of the four country challenges. The government programme envisaged the promotion of an inter-agency strategy for demographic change and the rejuvenation of Basque society through policies to support the family and children. We can say Euskadin, clearly, we're late, although data reality is crude. Those data on the table and (... ), in the media, they are systematically placed. The president himself said 2016. That in the year it was a demographic challenge, one of the four hinges in our country. Today, six years later, we still don't have a strategy. Today, six years later, we still have no strategy in Euskadi. With regard to family policies, we have also been late. In 2007, the evaluation of the third Inter-Agency Plan for Support to Families, which was in force or covered the years 2011-2015, was carried out. Therefore, the evaluation came very late, two years after the expiry of this plan. Evaluation that we have to say, found non-compliances. Among them, the convergence of aid with the European Union by 2020, among the most significant. The fourth Inter-institutional Family Support Plan of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country 2018-2022 also arrived late. We have seen that the previous one ended in 2015. Like many of the instruments that developed the measures they envisaged, they were provided for in the Plan through regulations. From the group I represent, we have to highlight the lack of ambition and inefficiency of this Government in a matter of enormous importance to our future. When we are faced with a problem detected long ago, and which has become structural in our society. The People's Party has shown this throughout all these years with multiple initiatives, many of them repeated - I have to say that I have even bored them - about family, conciliation and the demographic challenge itself. We must distinguish between the Popular Party and the Ciudadans the lack of ambition of this government, especially now that it's a matter of fact known, and when it has become commercial in our society. The popular party has published this subject through many actions during the past few years, concerning the family combination and the demographic challenge. This is why, with regard to an initiative of the People's Party, a proposal was adopted which raised the need for a plan on demographic challenges of a cross-cutting, interdepartmental and inter-institutional nature, with measures, as I said, of a cross-cutting nature. In this regard, the Government was urged to deepen its cooperation with other institutions in the development of public policies for the promotion of birth, assistance for work and family reconciliation, the promotion of active ageing, the promotion of effective equality between men and women, and the fight against depopulation and rural areas. The reality itself and the demographic projections of 2041 and 2061 of the Eustat, have consequences in the short, medium and long term. Among the most significant ones that affect intergenerational replacement, economic activity and social and health pension systems; where, as we all know... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... which affect intergenerational replacement, economic activity and social and health pension systems, where - as we all know - we have the highest pensions to be paid Thanks to the solidarity of all the Spaniards, of the rest of the Spaniards, we must say so. We must also say, we must highlight, the march of young people who do not return, the flight of talent, not being attractive to attract such talent and investment, as the Basque entrepreneurs themselves have pointed out. For not forgetting the exodus of thousands of Basques who have been forced to leave our land and have undertaken, created their businesses or gone to work outside our autonomous community. Having said that, however, today we want to use this debate to formulate, from an absolutely constructive position, proposals which we consider necessary to address this issue and which are in line with the most ambitious and innovative initiatives of countries in our environment. I, in this first speech, although I will do so in the afternoon too, because we are going to present about 50 motions for resolutions, I think it is appropriate to focus on some of the most important ones. Some of them have to do with the legal framework. And in this regard, from the consideration of the demographic challenge as a fundamental challenge for the future of our society, which must involve the public policies developed by the different institutions in the coming decades, we urge this Government, as other autonomous communities - without going further, the Autonomous Community of Galicia - have done, to refer to the House a bill of measures to address the demographic challenge before 31 December 2022. We consider it opportune, Mr Lehendakari, for you to consider the opportunity and the need to refer this bill. And since the Basque strategy for the demographic challenge is going to be drawn up for this summer, I think it is an important starting point for the Basque Government to then be able to draft this bill. We also consider it important that the 2030 Basque strategy for the target demographic challenge be implemented, and that monitoring and evaluation indicators be quantified as part of the Action Plan that is already on the table. We consider it important to use - and by conviction, because we also do so out of absolute conviction - the potential offered by the Economic Concert. We don't think we're doing enough. And in that regard, we are going to propose a set of measures which have to do directly with tax deductions. In this respect, we propose, on the one hand, to eliminate the income criterion for the collection of child support, in order to define it as universal aid. It is also a repeated request from associations of families, of large families, and we want to bring it here today to this plenary, as we have also claimed on numerous occasions. We propose a tax check linked to the IRPF's declaration, regardless of its outcome, for at least €1,250 per descendant under the age of 18 living with the taxpayer. That is, a tax check for this amount - Euro1,250 - for each descendant under the age of 18. We propose to reinforce the deductions for descendants also in the IRPF, increasing the additional deduction for children under six years of age, and incorporating, apart from increasing this additional deduction, incorporating a new deduction of at least EUR 1,000 per descendant in the year corresponding to their birth. We propose to double the deductions in the IRPF by ascendants living with the taxpayer. And we also propose to increase the deductions in the IRPF by at least 20% by the degree of dependency or disability and by the need for third-party assistance. In the area of conciliation, we propose to increase the age for the recruitment of working persons for the care of minors from the present three years to 14 years, with retroactive effect to the 2021-2022 course. We also propose to include a new deduction in the IRPF, which will amount to 25% of the social security cost of a person employed in the home, when both spouses work or are large families, with a ceiling of EUR 500 per year. We believe that there are possibilities when we see that the Foral Chambers have significantly increased their collection, and when the government also has an important remnant that reaches 1.5 billion euros. We therefore believe that an effort must be made and, in this regard, ambitious in a fiscal policy that benefits Basque families. We have tools and we have money to do it. In the field of education, we believe that families should also be affected and assisted in the education of their children. In this regard, we propose that the first cycle of children's education be guaranteed free of charge, as well as the costs of dining and transport when there is a need for travel between municipalities before the beginning of the next 2023-2024 course. We also propose to deepen and increase aid for catering, transport or other complementary services at all stages of compulsory education and in publicly funded centres. We also propose the free use of textbooks and other educational materials at all stages of compulsory education, and in centres supported by public funds, public and concerted institutions. Another issue we want to address is conciliation. Therefore, we also propose to promote the necessary regulatory reforms to increase aid for the reconciliation of personal, work and family life by 1 January 2023, linking them as much as possible to the declaration of the IRPF, with particular regard to the reality of the families in which both parents work or with descendants under 18 years of age or dependents, as well as families... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... with particular regard to the reality of families in which both parents work or with descendants under the age of 18 or dependent on them, as well as large, single-parent families in similar circumstances. We believe that special attention should also be paid to those workers who have decided to join the labour market after a prolonged period of inactivity for the care of their family. And here we are talking preferably about the women's collective. With regard also to rural depopulation and the rural area, we believe that priority actions should be defined, such as defining municipalities that are of action that cannot be expected, we would say also of action priority, with particular attention to the rural environment, in order to combat depopulation and its causes, to combat the social economy and employment opportunities. All this also within the framework of the Rural Development Act. We also propose a package of tax measures for municipalities at risk of depopulation. Including deductions in the IRPF for registered taxpayers who have their tax and effective residence in them, bonuses in the tax between companies with the application of a rate of 10 % for companies with permanent work centres and having their tax and social headquarters in such municipalities and bonuses of up to 50 % in the tax on property transfers and documented legal acts in the case of buildings located in those same municipalities. In the area of housing is key. In the end, we have to focus on the housing. But access to housing is certainly also conditional on our young people, the young Basques, having employment opportunities. But, in this sense, we propose that the different types of family, with special consideration for large families, be taken into account the number of members of the family unit and that specific responses be given to the needs for changes in the size of the housing. We also propose in-depth lost aid for the comprehensive rehabilitation and improvement of housing and accessibility to housing, savings and energy efficiency, prioritizing the homes of young people in order to facilitate their emancipation, large families, single parents or at risk of exclusion. I was talking before the youth job. The situation of youth employment, the quality of youth employment or youth unemployment clearly marks the possibility of emancipation of young Basques. In this regard, we propose a youth employment shock plan aimed at the unemployed under the age of 25 that improves the employability and working conditions of young people, avoids the flight of talent and contemplates career guidance and training routes adapted and personalized, thus contributing to their earliest emancipation. We also believe that the Basque Government, in cooperation with the social partners, the educational community, universities, vocational training centres and centres offering certificates of professionalism, must make an effort to identify the needs of our labour market and the most serious shortcomings in the professional profiles demanded. Here we're going to have a labor problem, we're already having it. And carry out recruitment campaigns for workers in correspondence with such demands. We also call for the implementation of a specific plan for the retention, development and intelligent attraction of talent to the Basque Country. As well as continuing to promote first- chance programs aimed at connecting young university students with no experience with companies in the Basque Country. Another tool... We have another tool, the Kontzilia portal, the Euskadi Lan Kontzilia Plan, but which are clearly underutilized, which is a directed plan... and a portal aimed at companies, particularly SMEs and autonomous companies in the Basque Country. We must include aid for the implementation of conciliation measures for SMEs, self-employed people and businesses. And we also propose the establishment of the Euskadi Lan Kontzilia certificate the development of tax incentives linked to obtaining such a certificate and the specific creation of aid and subsidy lines. And finally, I will end the section, an important section, which is all that has to do with our elders, dependence and active ageing. In this regard, we urge the Basque Government and the relevant institutions to launch a Euskadi Silver programme for people over 55 years of age, which promotes active ageing from an economic, welfare, cultural and social perspective. We are also concerned about society, the loneliness, the loneliness of our elders. We are also concerned about loneliness as a key factor in achieving healthy ageing. And, in this regard, we urge the different public administrations to collaborate in the development of programmes for the prevention and comprehensive care of the unwanted loneliness of the elderly. We also believe that we need to foster intergenerational relations, in particular relations between our young and older people, as a means of interaction and exchange that fosters cooperation and mutual support, understanding, respect and the transmission of knowledge and experience. In this regard, we also propose the development of programmes and experiences. With regard to the elderly, dependent people, we propose measures which I believe should not be expected and which should be on the agenda of both the Basque Government and the outlaws, who are also competent in the field of social services, and in accordance with the Cartera Decree. We propose to increase the amount of the health funding module of socio-health resources that care for people with dependency and/or disability and/or mental illness. We have insufficient places. And, in that sense, we believe that a major effort needs to be made here. We also propose to increase the number of residential places of a socio-health nature, in particular those for people in situations of severe dependency or high dependency. We also urge the relevant institutions to strengthen the family home care model by, inter alia, increasing the number of places in day centres, the coverage of the home support service and the amounts of personal assistance provided. We're also... We also urge the competent institutions to increase the amount of benefits linked to the provision of residential services to persons with disabilities. [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... we also urge the relevant institutions to increase the amount of benefits linked to the provision of residential services to dependent persons. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, we believe that today we have a great opportunity, despite the fact that I have pointed out in my speech that I think we are going to be late, but give a definitive boost to this issue with this full demographic. This is an opportunity that we certainly cannot miss. From the group that I represent, to the People'sCitizens group, we have understood this, and in that regard we have put forward a list of ambitious proposals, but which go in line with the most innovative measures and measures being implemented in countries, in other autonomous communities in our environment and which are working. I think it's time to act, it's time to move on to action. And, in this sense, we have presented, as I said, a range of proposals, a set of proposals that have to do with our youth, with their emancipation, with a youth employment plan, that have to do with reconciliation, that have to do with housing, that have to do with the educational sphere, that have to do with our elders. These are proposals that we are there, we are also prepared to negotiate them, but I hope that especially this Government, we are already doing a job, I have to say so, and I also have to thank the interest of the parties that support the Government in that, well, they will succeed in some of these measures, because I believe that we all have a shared goal that the demographic challenge is an inescapable issue and that we must urgently address it. There's nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The societies of the so-called western global north have been aging for more than 40 years since the generation, since my generation, since the generation of baby boomers. It's not surprising information for anyone, it's been a long time since all the books about lying down, about the history of our institutes talk about this issue. And the causes are diverse and complex, and their implications are so. However, I would like to start today's speech by referring to a trend that is also not new and that is also very widespread, it is very concrete, which always aims to place any debate on this subject under a perspective that is manifested in terms that have also been generalized in the media and to those that have been referred to previously also, such as the demographic winter; even some, the most exalted, the demographic hell. Those who speak of this do so knowingly, do so knowingly, mixing very different things. Mixing vital precariousness, austerity, cuts in public services that have undermined the well-being of citizens. They mix it with the diversity of forms of family - which do not have due recognition by the State - with growing poverty, with inequality, which is unbearable. And they do it by also mixing with birthist, nationalist discourses and - why not say it - also, often, supremacist. These speeches, on the other hand, also seek to regain control of our bodies, the bodies of women. And this is something we're not going to allow. I don't know, but this term, this concept, is the founder of the demographic winter, a very concrete person, one Michael Schooyans, a priest of Belgium. This priest, amongst his books, is of those who are known: El imperialism contraceptivo, La deriva totalitria del liberalism. In an Anglo-Saxon sense, this is the meaning of the progressive liberalism. That's the creator of this concept. That's a great Joya. And from this ideological source comes the theory of the demographic representative of the right extreme defending today. Vox used the theory, too, this year, in his campaign in the Andalucia elections. It's a theory that, between other terrorist attacks, caused an attack on the Buffalo Black community last weekend. That's why we thought it was necessary for my team to start this explanation today. Unfortunately, when we begin in discussions of the antiquity of the population, of the birth rate, of families, of motherhood, choice, and involuntary, of other paternitys, and of the like, this discussion has been too much discussed in the ideological scope of the nediologicalism which drinks from the worst of the history of Western thought. In any case, leaving aside these terminological diatribes, my parliamentary group, our political space feels the obligation to make diagnoses that are stuck on the street and to promote just and courageous policies in order to recognize the reasons why, for example, those who wish to do so cannot, at times, afford to bring life to this world. We want to bring to the fore the reconstruction of a very small social state that helps to overcome this feeling of vital uncertainty, of precariousness of life that begins to flood everything. And we also want to claim the rights of our neighbours, of our neighbours who have not recognized citizenship status with an unjust law such as the Aliens Act. We also want to demand and legislate in favour of the diversity of homes and different family conceptions that exist and that coexist within our society. We want to reflect on the desire to have or not to have children, and the material conditions that condition it, determine it in a way... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... reflect on the desire to have children or not, and the material conditions that condition it, determine it so unjustly and asphyxiatingly. In 2018, it has also been commented, we had the opportunity to discuss also in monographic plenary session on family and birth. Already then our parliamentary group managed to broaden the discursive framework, and the guy... through the type of resolutions also submitted. So we put several themes on the table, and today they're still capable of the whole of today's work. The rest, in order to defend a wide and feminist regard for the family concept, to disarm this view, and to help the family to become a refugee vest, so that they may be safe and well-being. To defend children and teenagers as subjects, beginning with basic right. And as for the guarantees of payment. That, too. We put politics on the table, which will solve the proper development of children and teenagers, their well-being, and their weakness. And we also said that we should consider that the social police should act in the eyes of prevention by making economic investments and considering the influences of the government. So that they don't stop in words, in all things they write. We are talking about all this at that time, and we are also talking about all this when we say that we must defend the deployment of the 2030 Agenda in Euskadi. And it must be said, if we look at the report of the Office of Sociological Prospecting, that in Euskadi then we suspend in that... with regard to what we have carried out since that full monograph was held. We are told in this report that there is an abundant percentage of the Basque population who do not have the number of children they want, and who do not have them for economic reasons. In other words, we are once again discussing the same point on which we are already in 2018. And it is that in order to bring about changes in current demographic trends, changes need to be put in place. Changes that reverse the deterioration of general living conditions, the loss of purchasing power, the deterioration of public services, which is also an indirect wage. We need changes. Changes that advance in the recognition of the diversity of family projects that exist in our society, allowing the construction of emancipated life projects, as many forms of home and family as there is a will to do, and disassociating the social state from the forms of classical family or marriage. We need changes that give children centrality in the design of public and budgetary policies that they have not had so far. Addressing children as a comprehensive and cross-cutting agenda that is present in the design and implementation of public policies, as recommended by the United Nations and the 2030 Agenda. We need changes that will be addressed once and for all with determination and at the root of the matter, the paradigm of care that invisibles it, carrying it on the backs of women, both in the home and in the precarious and overexploited care entities, residences, home care, etc. A care that, despite being fundamental to the maintenance of life, does not have due social recognition, whether this care is paid or not. And especially urgent is the recognition of the situation of women employed at home. A percentage of which are in an irregular situation of over-exploitation and unprotected by the Aliens Act. We must also continue to advance and fight to reverse the policies that have led us to a gradual loss of rights in all areas: in the world of work, in the field of social protection, in housing and health policies. In short, in the lack of recognition of the right to have decent conditions, worthy materials to live. Finally, we also need to make changes, bearing in mind that there is no possible future horizon without decisively and forcefully addressing the environmental crisis before us. Extreme weather phenomena begin to stagger in our territory, and strike much of the planet assiduously. Reversing environmental degradation, degradation of diversity, and climate change are also a necessary way to ensure a sustainable future. Having said that and stating what are the challenges that as a society - both global and Basque in particular - we must address, we could stop, yes, in the specific area of birth.What are the reasons that are leading to the growing age of maternity in Euskadi? What are the reasons for the fall, which are behind the fall of births in Euskadi? Well, look at the data, and that is that one in six inhabitants, that is, 16.3% of the total population of Euskadi, suffer social exclusion. This means that about 360,000 people living in our territory have problems with money, employment, access to health, education or housing, among others. 22.1% of these people have employment-related problems; 17.2% with getting a home; and 11.7% with their health, i.e. they do not have access to the medicines or treatments they need because they do not have enough money to pay for them. In short, the social fracture... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... medicines or treatments you need because you don't have enough money to pay for them. In short, the social divide has its origin in three major gaps: origin, gender and social class. And the most common problems with these causes, those affecting a large part of Basque citizenship, are five: excessive housing costs, severe labour instability, unemployment of working-age persons living in a household, economic difficulties in purchasing medicines and (?) medical treatment, as well as limitations on political participation. There is a risk, that, once again, that the recipes we put in place for social reconstruction will be thought from the point of view that they are wrong, without entering into the structures that are making it difficult day by day for all people in this country. Therefore, what we need is to address weakened health systems, conditions of access to housing, a water-making residential system, a model of care that is privatized and restricted to the home. We must put on the table again the difficulty of reconciling for all those who have..., for all those who have to continue choosing between caring or arriving at the end of the month. And it is that we cannot continue to relegate care, the defense of social rights to a background. We must urgently address the construction of what is the fourth pillar of the welfare state, and we must place it at the heart of the process of social and economic transformation that we need to carry out in the coming years. We are concerned, because it is true that most of the debates that we have had in this House in terms of the legislature, precisely about the situation of social services, and about the situation of job insecurity faced by women workers in the care sector, the answers always go the same way: an excessive confidence and praise of..., worth redundancy, private public alliances and denial to open spaces of deep reflection and collective form. We continue with the inertia of the care provided from the private sphere, and we settle for patching up the crisis of the global care chain. We prefer to manage poverty and social exclusion, rather than anticipate the surveys that are already talking about widening the social gap in Euskadi, even before the pandemic. Euskadi has a Unit Act, for example, which recognizes that individuals are preferably assisted by a service, rather than by a benefit. And yet, we are the territory that has the least services. And it is not worth giving money, it is not worth giving benefits, money, which in practice means perpetuating gender roles, on the other hand, so that women follow, as is tradition, caring for dependent people, and do so, at the expense, moreover, of precarious care, while neglecting the articulation of a public service that is necessary. We therefore believe that it is necessary to insist, that we must insist on the cross-cutting of gender equality policies, on the inclusion of the best interests of the child, to place child protection at the centre of public policies and protection against any expression of violence. I would also like to conclude by making a mention in this context in which we are talking about the new Abortion Act that has been adopted, which was adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers. One of the measures included in this new Abortion Act is the shielding of access to abortion in public institutions. In Euskadi we know, as you know, that this service is a service... It's absolutely outsourced. We hope that today will be a good day to reach agreements that will also correct this issue. The Basque Government likes, likes to presume, likes to boast of being vanguard in the protection of rights, in social protection on equal terms; however, the Basque Government is already starting to take up positions not so avant-garde, but more queue. Let us use today as an exit gun to re-enter that vanguard, and not to continue waiting for the deployment of the 2030 Agenda, for policies relating to the sexual and reproductive rights of women, that Euskadi is up to it. We have a chance today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u9	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. The demographic challenge is closely linked to social cohesion and equal opportunities for men and women. Equal opportunities without economic constraints. And this is the central idea that we want to focus on in this debate proposed today by the EH Bildu group, but which does so after the government took the initiative. The Basque Government has done so on the basis of a commitment made since the agreement signed on 29 October 2020 by the Basque Socialists, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's-Citizens Group, where the public commitment was made to draw up a plan or document on demographic challenge 2020-2030 of an interdepartmental and inter-institutional nature, that would collect in a cross-cutting way... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... 2020-2030 of an interdepartmental and inter-institutional nature, which takes a cross-cutting diagnosis of the current reality, measures to be implemented, funding, implementation deadlines, as well as periodic evaluations of the actions implemented. And this basic document for the development of the strategy was presented in mid-December 2021. In particular, on 14 December 2021 by the Basque Government, the three Deputies. A period of contributions was opened to Eudel, Confebask, among others, until March of this year; then the demographic challenge strategy for June of this year was developed and finalized. It was important to have a good diagnosis of the current situation in order to be able to better define the measures to be taken, to implement the funding available for this in the budgets and the deadlines for the implementation of those measures. And we also considered that you had... It was also considered that it was of particular importance to carry out periodic assessments of the extent to which the measures were deemed to have been implemented. And since it is a challenge that affects the different administrations, coordination and collaboration between the different levels: European, State, autonomous and local was also important. This monograph has been requested by the EH Bildu group among other media. It seems good to us because it will allow us to include everything we can agree here today, within the strategy that will have been completed, as I have just pointed out, and which is scheduled for June 2022. We now have a working document for the elaboration of this Basque strategy for the demographic challenge since the end of 2021. And it was important to have the strategy at the national level first, because doing the opposite without knowing what was included at the national level did not make much sense. Because obviously to achieve the effects that you want to achieve with all these strategies, they all have to be aligned with each other. We have also recently discussed the demographic challenge again on 3 March, but we believe that the initiative did not make much sense at the time, because, as I have already indicated, it had already been drawn up and fulfilled what was already agreed in October 2020 by the end of 2021. We're on another stage today. We are faced with a full monograph on the demographic challenge, in our view essential for marking short-, medium- and long-term policies that can change current trends and reverse the population pyramid. But since we are going to discuss this, I have to point out that steps have been taken to move forward. Steps in the first place, as I have indicated, from the Government of Spain, where the 2030 National Strategy against the demographic challenge was agreed to achieve a just recovery that includes territorial cohesion, including digital transformation, ecological transformation and gender equality. The Government of Spain set the demographic challenge as one of its political priorities, and in 2021 approved a plan that included 130 measures with a total budget of EUR 10 billion for 2021-2023. The main objective of this strategy is a country project that guarantees equal opportunities and the free exercise of the right of citizenship throughout the territory through cooperation and coordination of all public administrations and the sustainable use of resources. And they participated and collaborated and cooperated with the Autonomous Communities and local authorities, because to address the demographic challenge we must guarantee equal rights, opportunities and freedom to choose live where they live. It is necessary to change our productive model and make an ecological transformation of our economy and to combat the gap of inequality and poverty, with social and territorial cohesion as an indispensable principle. Furthermore, the impact of COVID-19 on demographics throughout the European environment must be taken into account. In the third quarter of 2020, the number of births fell by 5.9% compared to the same period in the previous year. That is a reality that must be underlined and which also brings more complexity to the challenge. And all this on the basis of meeting the Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, of the 2030 Agenda. We need a comprehensive and cross-cutting strategy, as it is interdepartmental in nature, designed to provide a joint future response to address the problem of progressive population ageing, territorial depopulation and the effects of the floating population. We have also taken steps in our Basque Autonomous Community. In recent years, Basque institutions have acted directly or indirectly, and have affected the demographic reality with public policies aimed at the family, the reconciliation of co-responsibility for employment, housing or social protection. From there was born the Basque Pact for Families and Children, signed in January 2018, which was previously unanimously approved by the Basque Family Council, and from which emerged the IV Inter-institutional Plan of Support for Families. Every person must be able to choose his or her family model without risking exclusion. It is necessary to achieve a paradigm shift, as the pact points out and defends... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... without this risk of exclusion.It is necessary to achieve a paradigm shift, as pointed out and defended by the government pact between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group in this area. And for my group, that paradigm shift goes through a culture shift. It said at first that we were in a debate of the future, a debate that goes beyond birth policies, that it has to do with a society of equals and rights, and that it has to do with a demographic reality that needs to be corrected in the short, medium and long term, and that although it will not return to levels of the past, its trend will never change as far as we want to achieve if we do not maintain stable family policies over the years. In the context of our Autonomous Community, of Euskadi, it was also important to have this Basque strategy of demographic challenge 2030, and with it we will count already in June this year. The Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups attach importance to the demographic challenge, and that is why the government agreement collected measures in this direction. We already have that working paper, as I said, to develop the strategy. As noted in these documents, the demographic situation is a matter of priority concern, both locally and globally. It is part of the strategic vision of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. Intergenerational solidarity and territorial cohesion are processes of medium- and long-term transformation. It was therefore essential to define a Basque inter-institutional and social strategy, which must take into account two complementary keys: firstly, demographic transformation implies a change in the systemic and cultural system, which must be projected in the medium and long term; and secondly, it is a priority to identify short-term impact actions, which will help to change the current demographic trend. This proposal structures its action plan into three large blocks: two that shape the two-pronged short-term impact perspective and a long-term impact, and add a third axis of cross-cutting actions. The aim of the strategy is to restore the balance of the population pyramid and to rejuvenate Basque society. Youth emancipation and the construction of family projects are key factors in this regard, while the development of the personal and family life projects of young people is an end in itself. Demographic change is accompanied by climate change, technological transformation and the recovery of the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic, one of the major challenges facing the European Union in the short and long term. That is why it is very important to place the demographic challenge among our political priorities and, in addition, to carry it out with coordination between the different levels. There is a combination of different factors: the growing ageing of our society, as a result of increased life expectancy, and a success, of course, of our welfare state, the decline in the birth rate, territorial depopulation and the need to regulate migratory flows. This is a challenge to the sustainability of our welfare state, and can put social cohesion, territorial vertebration and our coexistence model at risk. And this demographic change affects the field of work, social services, care, the labour market, pensions, economic growth, the sustainability of public spending and intergenerational solidarity with family composition, etc. The analysis of this pact is based on the difficulty of emancipation of youth, which is a direct factor that influences the difficulty of forming families and being able to decide whether or not to have children and when to have them. In all this, we must take into account the different needs or realities of women and men, also taking as a basis, in any case, the gender perspective and equality between men and women in the same. We need to reverse these low birth rates and perpetuate inequalities. We must include changes in the current model, where they are left at home in the care of minors and older persons, who expel them from their professional careers or who can expel them, drag them into partial or precarious jobs with low incomes, and who can lead them to dependency during their working life and the risk of poverty when they can retire. The reality today is that families are not having the number of children they would like. And it's important to change this. We have counted on several and several actions to try to reduce it. Child and conciliation aid, which has not ceased in 20 years, but which has shown that birth policies are not enough. Policies have also counted on youth employment and housing to facilitate the emancipation and construction of a project of own life. And policies of orderly and rights-based immigration that have taken a new boost in this legislature, to facilitate work permits and that we want to assume also from Euskadi. We also have an increasingly ageing society, which is the result of two major successes in our social system: the guarantee of the right to health without exception - which allows us to live longer - and the freedom of people, especially women, to decide which children they want to have. The problem is not that people can enjoy more, it is also that during all these years they can have their needs covered, and that the limitations that will impose age are not an obstacle to being able to maintain... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... during all these years may have their needs covered, and that the limitations that will impose age are not an obstacle to maintaining a dignified life. As Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia has recently pointed out, there are half a million people aged 65 and over in Euskadi, one third over 80, accounting for 23% of the population, but in a decade they will be close to 30%. But even the number of those over 90 will triple. And above all, they are and will be women. To this we add another phenomenon such as the increase of single-person households, today there are more than 260,000 people living alone due to different circumstances, of which 112,000 are older. The tenth part of those who live in this situation have reached 80 years, they are already three times more than a decade ago. At longer longevity, more chances of loneliness. And we must also take into account the digital divide that is taking place. This is not solved only with more residences or with better conditions within them, because only 18,000 people currently live in residences, 4% of the elderly. That will require us to turn our social services system around to facilitate that personal autonomy. It is about providing resources, especially for the elderly, so that they can have an autonomous life, full of guarantees, and that they can also decide whether they want to stay in their homes or want to live elsewhere. In short, it is a question of providing a safety net for all people whatever their way of life. The opportunity we have is to deploy a long-term care community. And in this line, I think it is important to stress that Vice-Lehendakari and Labour and Employment Adviser, Idoia Mendia, has recently introduced ZainLab in order to be able to remove this barrier. A construction project and an employment and entrepreneurship strategy for such community care and a long-term society, offering a bridge and training resources that improves the work of the professionals who provide these services in a recognized and more qualified way, advancing the modernization of care on the basis of increased quality employment. And a strategic alliance for a triple demographic challenge: to care for those in need of care, to create more than 40,000 employment opportunities and to address the inequality suffered by women, both the elderly and those working in the care sector. Because we have many reasons for this, because family members and others have the right to be involved in care, but more and more people are unable to do so if they do not have professional care. Because there is also informal care employment, which can be carried out in an inappropriate way for people, both cared for and caregivers, and for the most part women. For demographic reasons, because we have an increasing number of people who demand quality ageing, because the new technologies of assistance, information and communication also facilitate new possibilities for these professional qualifications. We must seek solutions to the reality that we live in and that are transformed into a right of decent ageing, also giving a great opportunity to quality employment. Because we're all going to get old, but not all of us do it the same way, although we all have the right to the same treatment and to do it on an equal footing. And that is why the Department of Labour and Employment decided to face the strategic challenge that explores all these opportunities that I have pointed out. It is clear that we also have a Basque system of income guarantee, which clearly reduces the real poverty rates of the entire population by 36%, but continues to affect families with sons and daughters more at this time. For this reason, the recently introduced income-guarantee reform project for inclusion presents changes in which it is much better protected, and is aimed at the greater protection of minors, families with children and pensioners. But not just a part of the protection of our system is that... It goes that way, and it must also be complemented by family policies that serve in the long term to change trends. And my group agrees with this, because equality between women and men and co-responsibility in parenting are the best policy to foster birth. That's where we work on it today. And, of course, we are fully prepared to try to achieve today the greatest number of agreements with the various parliamentary groups so that then, as I have indicated, we can include all the agreements that we have reached today in the Basque demographic challenge strategy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u10	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u11	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. The demo is the global challenge that influences more and more nations, and in more and more violent ways. Technological acceleration, the energy transition, the trend towards urban concentration, demographic transformation and new global migration movements, the crisis of so-called middle classes in the state of well-being or educational transformation, among others, are issues that are present in the global political agenda, and, of course, also in the Basque Country. As a whole, they constitute a strategic issue that constitutes one of the ten country goals included in the government agenda, on which intensive work has been done in recent years, and which has been worked to find solutions. Today, with this debate, we have the opportunity to help the Government in its strategy and to complement it with the reflections of the groups in this House. We won't face this huge challenge in an isolated way. The institutions of Europe have been studying for years, and presenting proposals to it, or taking measures. The rise and increase of hope of life, the increase of the number of persons who are either master or very superior, the descent of birth, the descent of the birth rate, the descent of baby boom into retirement, the changing of the family, the remarkable elevation of the individuals who live alone, and of the rest of our society, are placed in the presence of a gigantic challenge which we have ever experienced. 21st the Eucadi of the century grows old and loses its population. Today there are more people than 65 years old who are under 19 years old. 20th six months of life had been won every year. And in history we never lived so many generations. As the distance between them expands, it is more and more difficult to combine their interests. The demographic challenge in the opening of a future project for Eukadi has an strategic character, which is indispensable to guarantee the competency of our society. And the facts, both in the Eucharin and in the State, place us among the people who possess the least democratic balance of the European Union. And you have to deal with this. Pandemia has also affected this. In 2020, the 14721 children were born, 697 less than 2019 and 6000 less than 2008. This is the smallest number of births that have been born since 1941. This demographic reality produces a direct and middle-term influence on education, on the market, and on the support of pretty societies. And this is a problem that straines the pact between generations. That unwritten rule, according to which adults take care of young women, thinking that when they grow up, now boys and girls will take care of them. This fundamental axis of our coexistence is being strained for many reasons. Reasons that cannot be analysed in isolation, as there is a clear interrelationship between them. Various reasons I am going to list, such as demographics. The population is changing: there are more and more older people, the birth rate is falling, the potential caregiver is decreasing, more pensions are being paid and fewer people are working to pay them. Reasons like socio-economics. In our society, older generations enjoy the highest incomes. Generally speaking, we can say that young people have lower wages than their older ones' pensions and that older people have economic conditions that are largely covered by youth work. There are few studies that determine that, increasingly, age is replacing the social class as an element of weight in determining people's income. Reasons as well as democratic ones. We have a more numerous and more accustomed generation to vote and mobilize, and a generation that we have to recognize that we have achieved most of the social advances we enjoy today. But we can perhaps refer to Brexit as the greatest exponent that grandparents and grandmothers today are deciding the future of their grandchildren. And this is something that unquestionably puts on the table a debate on which to reflect and which tensiones the generational pact. Reasons also derived from globalization. There is a generation that is increasingly prepared, that knows more languages, that is used to moving and, in addition, is educated to choose. And for this generation it is more and more common to leave, either to look for opportunities, or because new experiences are sought. This makes it customary for there to be a greater geographical distance between members of the same family. And that, of course, makes it difficult, or sometimes directly, to prevent care. Changes also in the use of time. A social life colonized absolutely by labor, in which we devote more time to work and less to relationships. Something that happens especially in big cities and that has a lot to do with this phenomenon that worries us so much and that consists in the romanticization of precariousness. Changes in values as well. A greater perception of insecurity, distrust in the future, lack of commitment. We live in a society where there is less and less willingness to make efforts for others, to renounce our quality of life, to sacrifice our leisure and well-being, to assume responsibilities. A society in which practically everything is done in exchange for something. A more liquid society, in which everything is more volatile and where immediate priority is given. And it is undeniable that all this, no matter how negative it may seem, and it seems, is a consequence of our societies having been successful societies, that we have achieved the objectives that we have been setting ourselves, also in Euskadi. We've never lived as many years as we have now. We have never had a health service that caters to as many people as today. Pensions have become universal. Leisure and culture... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...like now. We have never had a health service that caters to as many people as today. Pensions have become universal. Leisure and culture have been democratizing. Never before has Education, both basic and higher, been so accessible to all people, regardless of the origin and income of their families. And this makes it increasingly time for us to finish studying, to join the labour market later, and there is no need to explain what consequences this brings to birth. We have never respected so much family diversity and individual freedom. And our society is today more egalitarian than ever, where women can decide freely about their training, about their professional development and about their motherhood, which also includes the right to non-maternity, although we have to recognize that we still have a long way to go to achieve the long-awaited real and effective equality between women and men. And all these factors affect different mechanisms that this society has given itself, and that has allowed ours to be a cohesive society: pensions, health services, social services, coexistence, education, heritage transmission. And we need to generate new models of relationships between generations, between genders, between different types of families and ways of living, and between workers of different ages. It is also necessary to introduce the challenges of ageing and the need for a new intergenerational pact on the social, political and institutional agenda of the Basque Country. And this must be done through several examples. For example, to transform the centres of the elderly as resources for the promotion of the relationship between generations, to place the judicial system within a collective social programme for a new intergenerational pact, to provide tax advantages to companies that facilitate conciliation, to articulate a differentiated and more favourable IRPF for caregivers and volunteers; in short, the Intergenerational Pact needs private public cooperation, and must have among its main tasks to create the conditions for Basque young people to be able to emancipate without any delay, to build their family projects and to have the children they want and when they want. However, the comprehensive strategy of responding to the demographic challenge promoted by the Basque Government also entails the promotion of the self-governing and full life of the elderly. An own model of reception, inclusion in the field of migration and active support for policies in the face of depopulation and ageing of the rural environment. We are therefore faced with a challenge, but we are also faced with an opportunity. An opportunity to build an autonomous life project. The average age of emancipation of Basque youth is 30.2 years, four years later than the European average. This difficulty in emancipating ourselves from our young people is one of the key factors in ensuring that the birth and fertility rate remains low, and that there is a delay in the age at which Basque women have their first child. It should be recalled that the right to build an autonomous life project is reflected in the recently adopted Youth Act. And this, all of this we must do from both... from various points of view, but especially from housing policies. In line with the efforts made in recent years by the Basque Government, housing policy must be the axis on which the rest of the elements that allow people to be integrated into the social structure must be centered. In Basque society, property ownership is a widespread tradition, and this does not seem to change if we stick to the prices of the private rental market. But when it comes to talking about housing in general, and the price of rent in particular, we must be serious and serious, move away from populist and effective discourses and make a good diagnosis of the problem. And it will be only then when we can get the solution right. Housing policy must therefore be at the centre of the fight against inequality in a two-way way. One, which makes it easier for young people to emancipate themselves and build a life project, and the other, which makes it easier for people who are excluded to have access to housing. This is the first step to enable their active inclusion in society, and the necessary complement both to employment and income-guarantee policies, which are essential elements for ensuring personal development. All this must also be done from employment policies. For many, employment has for years been the central element of the paradigm of social integration. The employment gave the person a status, a place in society, a necessary income for emancipation and autonomy, even provided an identity. In recent years, the paradigm of employability has fostered strategies that sought to ensure the social inclusion of the person through training. For our group, achieving stable and quality employment is therefore a priority objective to be pursued; however, it is more necessary than ever to reflect on the working society of the future, and it is that precariousness, partiality or underemployment have called into question this paradigm of which we spoke a few seconds ago. Employment is no longer, therefore, the only vector for the social participation of people, not even to guarantee their income, nor to grant someone the main part of their citizenship status, as had been the case so far. It is necessary to reflect on the role that employment plays in our society in line with the employment policies that have been articulated by the Basque Government, and which are reflected in the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, approved by this legislature. And in order to achieve stable and well-paid quality jobs, economic development is necessary, and, as this Government is doing, it is necessary to bet on the economic sectors that bring value; to make a firm and determined bet by industry, the green economy and the highly productive sectors. Quality employment is not possible without a strong and powerful economy. There is also a need for a business and work model that promotes greater flexibility and adequacy of working hours, a better reconciliation of work and personal life, eliminating the discrimination that has historically adversely affected women's professional development. Business reconciliation plans have to be part of the evaluation criteria of the different administrations when making contracts, and also... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Women. Business reconciliation plans must be part of the evaluation criteria of the different administrations when contracting, and must also serve as an incentive for the business model we want in Euskadi. We must also do so to build a framework conducive to birth, because we must talk about birth. It is necessary to ensure that no one gives up having children because they are unable to reconcile their upbringing with their working life, or even because they do not have the necessary financial resources. This requires not only a rationalization of working time, but also a decent employment and wage framework if we are to make our welfare system sustainable. It is necessary in this sense, as proposed by the IV Inter-institutional Plan for Families, to extend conciliation aid, to develop new tax incentives for companies that facilitate care, to promote housing policies that facilitate access to youth, the creation of childcare and child-rearing facilities in the workplace or the provision of higher quality employment. The promotion of birth is the culmination of a comprehensive policy to support families, especially young families. Over the last few decades, other European countries have faced this same challenge, so we must learn from good practices, from their successes, also from their mistakes in implementing policies and programmes that allow us to increase birth rates. From EAJ-PNV we propose to deepen in line with the Basque Government's proposal, a comprehensive strategy that positively discriminates between young couples with daughters and children in policies of access to housing, offering financial benefits per daughter or dependent child, along with present and future tax benefits, promoting job stability and quality employment, strengthening reconciliation measures or offering formal care alternatives for children also in the workplace. The welfare model we are proposing must insist on the path of homologation to the countries of northern Europe at levels of protection, without losing anything, which is an expression of the values of Basque society and which is nothing other than the social contribution of families, mutual aid and organised solidarity. We must also do so for a new paradigm of old age. It is true that it is necessary to establish new ways of understanding old age, more egalitarian forms, more co-responsible with other generations and more solidarity. The comprehensive strategy of responding to the demographic challenge that we propose to promote also involves promoting the autonomous and full life of the elderly. At the same time, the increase in life expectancy, a goal pursued as a major social advance by all modern societies, brings with them an important prevalence in patients with chronic diseases. Each brings about a change in the paradigm of care for the elderly. We understand it necessary to change the look and focus on the reality of care, which overcomes the view of care as an individual, family and collective burden, and which is able to identify them as a factor of social traction. And this is what the Basque Government and the Foral Deputies and the City Councils have been doing. It is necessary to promote equality between women and men in order to achieve co-responsibility in care work, so that they do not continue to fall primarily on women. We must foster a culture of care and intergenerational relations, and we must do so, too, in order to have a new immigration model of our own. The study of migration processes in Euskadi in recent decades shows a pattern, clear behavior, towards the increase of immigrants who have arrived in our country. In Euskadi we currently have about 260,000 people of foreign descent. All the studies carried out in recent years show that immigration is not a cyclical phenomenon, so we must continue to articulate the foundations of what should be a model of immigration management of our own for Euskadi, promoting labour, educational, cultural and legal policies that allow us to face this inescapable reality. The ups and downs in the migratory stocks depended on the economic strength of the Basque middle class: to greater strength greater arrival of population and vice versa. In line with the recently approved VI Intercultural Plan on Citizenship, Immigration and Asylum, we need to deepen the identification and design of a proactive migration policy capable of responding to the shortage of professionals that presents our economic fabric in many specialized activities. The recovery of Basque professionals living abroad, the attraction of highly qualified immigrants or cooperation with the Basque diaspora appear as lines on which we must deepen. Experience shows us, above all, that in times of crisis, this reality can produce xenophophobic discourses, social help or school stations, for example, as an excuse. So as to integration and dive, we must make a political and social pedagogia, so that our people will have no room for language based on hatred. The result of the different ideological traditions of Eukadin is that there are moral principles distributed together to suggest a standard of immigration, and to oppose this fundamental fact, and to establish an immigrational policy between co-ordinate and efficient institutions. Reality and (? ) We have them here. It is now the business of managing the future, the future which is founded on equality and multiplicity. We must also do so to reverse the ageing and depopulation of the rural environment. Today should be easier than ever to live in the rural world. New technologies have made it possible to relate, communicate or even work from anywhere. In addition, transport, both public and private, is able to transport people in an increasingly comfortable, more agile and faster way. Despite all this, we are experiencing a phenomenon in which the population tends to concentrate in the big cities and this brings with it a constant and increasingly worrying process of aging and depopulation in the middle. And this is a phenomenon that we must work to reverse. To this end, it is necessary to contribute to making the socio-economic activities of small populations attractive, viable and sustainable. To take into account the rural dimension, particularly in some areas of the historic territory of... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...attractive, viable and sustainable. In order to take account of the rural dimension, particularly in some areas of the historical territory of Araba, we need to establish in a cross-cutting manner in all the actions of this plan the dual urban and rural dimension in its forecasting, design and implementation, establishing specific guidelines for adaptation and response to the unique needs posed by the rural environment. It is proposed, for example, the following battery of measures to be taken into account: adapting urban regulations, speeding up the drafting and modification of standards and management plans; studying and adapting municipal ordinances; adapting taxation to rural objectives, especially fiscal measures for the promotion of new economic activities; developing infrastructure - the extension of the natural gas network, water supply, parking for private vehicles, improvement of tourist signs and services, improvement and maintenance of rural roads; promoting housing policies in rural areas - rehabilitating buildings, placing in the rental market, closed houses, acquiring land for housing; promoting digitisation to improve well-being - digital access to basic services, extension of fibre optics and subsidies for connection to broadband and payment of the digital bill; promoting also entrepreneurship - networks, seed centres, small coworking centres, promoting local trade, etc.; promoting access to basic services - supermarkets, financial services, pharmacies, parcels. In short, we must ensure that living in a people is something more and more easy or, rather, that it is not something more and more difficult, something that requires an effort and something to which only those who have an emotional or identity bond are or are willing. I would say that what we have to achieve is that those people who are from a village can convince our couples to let us continue living in our village. The rural environment must be an attractive place to establish itself, to develop a vital project, to work, to undertake, to relate. In short, it must be a place where he wants to live. And we believe that we should talk about the need for a new intergenerational pact. A pact that addresses the emancipation of young people and the construction of family projects, the promotion of the autonomous life of older people, a model of reception and inclusion in the field of migration and support for policies in the face of depopulation of the rural environment. As a conclusion. On the above-mentioned pact, we can say that bold and strategic measures must be articulated, but above all possible and realistic measures must be taken. The documents presented today by the Government are a perfect basis for... Well, they weren't introduced today, they were introduced a few months ago. It gives us the opportunity to complete it on the basis of the agreement between the different political forces that we find to be facing a first country challenge. The Government and this parliamentary group have a clear direction and a hand in the agreement. This is on our agenda, we have it in the political debate. We have a decisive challenge in our hands. The diagnosis is clear and we could say that I believe it also shared. And we know the complexity of everything associated with demographic change. We have become aware of this and believe that we can reverse the trend. We believe in a better future. And, to do this, we need public action, private action, concertation, we must seek alliances, cross-cutting actions and the involvement of civil society. Each has its own role, but they are all complementary. We are faced with a country challenge that also requires our impetus, the impetus of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u13	Thank you, Mr. Díez. After that, ma'am, Mr. President, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u14	Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The demographic challenge is the primary challenge to eupscal society. This challenge has dangers or threats, but the chances too. Perhaps the greatest of the risks is to lose balance and the negative circle of demographics, socials, and economic factors is activated. In short, it is dangerous to form a society which is older and older, and which is the great loss of a hundred society and of human capital. Hence, the difficulties and delay which young generations have to give birth and to build family projects are a primary concern. Euscadi, together with the Spanish State and the Italians, is among the countries of Europe which have the lowest births. This view is certainly problematical. But he's got a choice, too. It is a good opportunity to strengthen innovation, to encourage internal and external cooperation, and to penetrate into the model of our permanent human development, by which we open more and better opportunities for the younger generation. With dangers, we have clear powers: autonomy, a strong ground of industry, a diversed economy, and a company model associated with culture. Our social network and family network and community network are traditions of evading the world. If we look at the chances directly connected to the demographic challenge, it is remarkable that the salutary hope of life has increased, and that migration streams are more and more important. The social growth process is a fair opportunity to encourage economic activity in this area and strengthen the surveillance. Coincidence, reproachfulness, and mutual solidarity between generations, are essential values to support this effort. The demographic is difficult and complex. Still, it's a great opportunity. I wish to direct my discourse from this realistic and positive point of view, and distribute it into the four parts: one, general diagnosis, two, precedents, three, legislative... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I will guide it, and divide it into four parts: one, a general diagnosis, two, precedents, three, a summary of work from the beginning of legislation, and four, 2030 years' view. I begin by sharing a general diagnosis of the situation. Last March, the European Commission released the strategic forward-looking report. It defines four key global trends: energy-environment transition to climate change, hyperconnectivity and digital transformations as key to technology-digital transition, pressure on democratic values and models of governance, and unequal demographic migration. According to the estimates in this report, the world's population will reach 8.5 billion by 2030, and 9.7 billion by 2050. This growth will be very uneven; in many of the advanced economies there will be stagnation or even decline. The population of the European Union is expected to fall to 420 million, 4.3% of the world's population. In Asia, the 2040s could represent a turning point; it is estimated that by 2050 it could start a decline in its population. In the case of Africa, the population is expected to expand from 1.2 billion in 2017 to 1.8 billion in 2035. In 2050 India, China, Nigeria, the United States and Pakistan will be the five countries with the largest population. The demographic issue is a problem of the utmost complexity in its causes, expressions, consequences, and also in its solutions. Honestly and with all humility, this is the first observation that we must share. Simple thinking does not work in this area. We must consider personal, family, anthropological, historical, social, religious, cultural, geographical, economic and political factors. In terms of demographics, responses are not automatic solutions that act through the cause-effect mechanism. Responses should be considered as sustained processes of multiple and articulated actions. Moreover, the results cannot be expected in the short term. With the same clarity, we must say that the demographic situation in Euskadi is not good. Nor is it in the state, in the European Union as a whole. Our demographic reality is part of a general trend throughout the European Union and the advanced economies. In Euskadi, the decline in birth, late emancipation, late motherhood and higher life expectancy have resulted in an ageing population. This trend is not sudden or exclusive to the 21st century, it dates back to the cultural and economic changes that occurred in the 70s and 80s of the last century. The economic crisis of the 1980s delayed emancipation processes in the new generations and made it difficult to deploy new homes and families. A progressive cultural and mental change also changed the scale of priorities in the development of life projects in the personal, professional or family spheres. In this respect, we must note that this new reality has been favoured for reasons which are clearly positive. I am referring to the recognition and effective exercise of the right of women to decide on their motherhood, their inclusion in the labour market and their participation in public life. The incorporation of women into the world of work has been a radical, positive change, which we must reinforce and, in addition, help to reconcile them with personal and family life. I am also referring to the universalization of the right to health, education and social services. All of this has enabled an individual decision-making awareness, above and beyond inherited social and cultural habits. This set of factors has resulted in a sharp fall in birth, somewhat greater in Euskadi than in the European Union. The average age of emancipation of Basque youth is 30.2 years; it is four years later than the European average, 25.9. By 2020, people aged 18 to 29 considered themselves an ideal age for emancipation at the age of 24 and a half. This same data is confirmed in the study of the Office of Sociological Prospects presented on May 5. The difficulties of young people in emancipating themselves are a key factor in the delay in the construction of family projects and in the age of the first child. This fact in turn influences low birth rates and makes population replacement difficult, both to respond to the needs of the labour market and to sustain systems of intergenerational solidarity. The average age at which Basque women have their first child is 32.6 years, compared to the European average age of 29.2. According to the study of the Office of Sociological Prospects, the age preferred and declared by young Basque women for their first motherhood is 28 years. According to the results of various surveys carried out, the young women express, mostly, that their desire would be to have at least two sons or daughters. However, the birth rate in Euskadi is 1.28 per woman. Next to Italy is one of the lowest in Europe, with an average of 1.53. The rate in France is 1.96, and in Sweden it is 1.85. The United Nations Population Fund considers that the level of population replacement is achieved at a rate above 2.1. In the education system, the childhood stage has lost almost 11,000 enrollment in the last six courses in the Basque Country due to the collapse of birth. Of course, this reality also affects the prospect of workforce replacement in the labour market. In the last 20 years, the working-age population in Euskadi... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... logically, this reality also affects the prospect of workforce replacement in the labour market. Over the past 20 years, the working-age population in Euskadi has fallen by 92,000. The forecast is that it will be reduced by 220,000 more by 2050. Thus, in the next three decades, it will be necessary to increase the working-age population by about 400,000 people. In this context, there is no doubt that immigration will help to alleviate this need in part. These data also affect the sustainability of social policies. It should be borne in mind that the dependent population - mostly retired people - will continue to grow. By 2050, it can account for almost half of the total population. This picture, which can be described as a demographic winter or a demographic decline, has been aggravated by the succession of the last global crises. The 2008 crisis did not help to improve the situation. The pandemic has created unfavorable conditions. The socio-economic consequences of the invasion of Ukraine will be a factor behind the demographic recovery. This problem is not expressed in the same way in all territories. In certain areas of the State, for example, the main demographic deficit is rural depopulation or emptied Spain. In Euskadi, the demographic challenge means the need to act on five major axes that structure the strategy that the Basque Government has proposed: emancipation of young people, construction of family projects, autonomous and full life of older people, migration integration and rural upgrading. So far the diagnosis. I then focus on sharing the background we rely on. This is not a new issue. It's in the last decades. Even answers are not new. We do not start from scratch, but from a steady course. In recent years the Esscal institutions have performed the activities which have been affected in the demographic reality by public policies directed to the association, to the employment, to the dwelling, or to the social defense. The government program of 2016 years ago established a demographic challenge between the four greatest challenges of our community. In 2017, the strategy of investing in families and childhood was introduced by the aid of a large group of experts and academics. In 2018 we signed the Euskal treaty, the Basque Council of the Family, the Eedels, and the Family Council, in advance accepted by unanimous unanimous consent. This treaty will answer to two realityes. First, the low rate of birth, and again the transmission of difference and poverty to the generation of states. With this starting point, in March 2018, the fourth plan of aiding families was adopted in this legislature which collects 116 activities. The survival period of the one-time asset in 2018 is now in effect. According to the evaluation made in 2020, 116 predetermined measures began 76. In this institution of legislation the program of government, which fixes between ten nations the following: The birth rate increases 10%. The program previews a strategy of the demographic challenge for 2030, co-ordinated by the principal secretary of the social transition and 2030 agenda. At the same time, it's already taken up in almost every important activity that's been developed by "Modiographic" The counterpoise strategy of the pay-off cracker makes this challenge stick tight to activities. The Rejection program, in order to refresh economy and promote employment, considers the old age of the population as a challenge and a great opportunity. The Euskadi Next program collects projects directly associated with the demographic. The Department of Equality of Police and Society is developing the fourth plan of helping the families for the 2018-22 period. With regard to the reconciliation of family and working life, advanced measures have been introduced for persons working in the public sector. The most prominent is the non-transferable permit of 16 weeks for each member of the couple, and in addition, the breastfeeding permit of 150 hours. In the public and private sectors, conciliation aid for the care of dependent family members has been improved, and aid for workers in overage has been reoriented to ensure the economic coverage of paternity surpluses. An economic benefit has been provided for the coverage of work leave of up to 16 non-transferable weeks for the non-pregnant parent during the 12 months following birth or adoption. The second Strategic Plan for Social Services is being developed. It will aim to promote a policy of transition in social care, strengthening institutional care, and reducing the burden of family care. The Basque Government, the Foral Deputies and Eudel have approved the Euskadi Social Care Strategy, and the Social Care Strategy to support caring families. The Basque Youth Act adopted in March has an impact on the goal of advancing the age of emancipation, to reach the age of 28 in 2030. The Basque Youth Emancipation Strategy 2030 is being finalized. The Basque Employment Strategy 2030 has been promoted by the Department of Labour and Employment. It prioritizes support for the access of young women and women to quality employment, and addresses the impact of ageing on employment and generational empowerment. It contemplates the need for an immigration policy to respond to the needs of the labour market, and to sustain the state of well-being. The 2023 Housing Master Plan has as its first backbone the promotion of affordable rental. One of its objectives is to grant 4,500 grants to young people to pay rent through the Gaztelagun programme. In addition, the park will be expanded... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... grant 4,500 grants to young people to pay rent through the Gaztelagun programme. In addition, the public rental park for young people will be expanded. All this from a cross-cutting perspective that connects the plan with youth policies and the social policy package. In the area of self-governing and full life of the elderly, we have the Active Ageing Plan, the BetiOn service, the electronic card or telemedicine in the health system. A city friendly with elderly people has a strong impulse to promote, including the Basque Friend with the tools of the Sustrais. Humans of active and elderly age have also been developed by the management strategy. As to the inclusion of migration, it was admitted in December 2022-25 to the citizenship, the immigration, and the culture of Asilous. The plan. It's going forward to manage manifold culture by building euscal patterns, international migrations, and asyllium. In short, in the course of recent years, the activity which the Esscal institutions have produced in the demographic reality has been effected by the public and modern policies addressed to the family, to union, to office, to office, migration, or to social protection. These activities receive the field in which to respond to the demographic challenge, especially in order to advance the younger part and to form new families. And to give answers to the antiquity of society, to the inclution of the emigrants, and to the surrender of the country. Nevertheless, owing to the influence of a crisis, the tendency of the population is still continued in its course. The average number of iterations is not visible, and the descending tendency to births is not restored. In this context, it is essential to define a strategy between institutions and society to strengthen and strengthen the answer to be given. This response must contain two keys in account: The demographic response demands a permanent process of modified changes that are to be projected within the due period and length of time, and will be identified by short-term impact activities which will help to alter the present tendency. On this basis and background, I will describe below the steps we have taken since the beginning of this legislature. I therefore enter into the third paragraph, a summary of the work carried out in this Parliament. Our government programme sets the demographic challenge as one of the ten country goals and provides for the development and impetus of an interdepartmental, inter-institutional and social 2030 Basque strategy. Since the beginning of 2021, the Basque Government has promoted an interdepartmental process of work that has been extended until June. From that moment on, the process was shared with the Diputations Forales. This second part was extended until November 2021. On 14 December, the resulting working paper was presented to the Governing Councils, both of the Foral Deputies and of the Basque Government, for their knowledge. These documents were forwarded to the Basque and Eudel Parliament and made publicly available. Until 31 March, a period of collection of contributions was opened by the institutions, parliamentary groups, Eudel and the municipalities, as well as by the various social actors and the citizens themselves. Among the contributions received, it should be noted that on 10 March, the Eudel Executive Commission agreed to validate the proposed baseline document of the Basque Strategy 2030 for the demographic challenge as a starting point for the start of the road to demographic recovery in Euskadi. It is also important to recall that, by means of a non-legislative proposal, on 29 October 2020, the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to draw up a plan on demographic challenges, and I quote textually, "of an interdepartmental and inter-institutional nature, for the development of public policies for the promotion of birth, assistance for work and family reconciliation, the promotion of active ageing, the promotion of effective equality between women and men and the fight against rural depopulation, among others". With the submission of this documentation to the Basque Parliament in December 2021, the Basque Government has complied with the request made by this House. This monographic debate, on the other hand, is a good opportunity to complete the participatory process opened at the end of last year. Our forecast, once today's contributions are known, is to proceed with their assessment and incorporation into the proposed strategy. The aim is that this strategy will have a final approval this June. In this way, I turn to the fourth section of this exhibition, the 2030 approach of the Basque Strategy of the demographic challenge. I will summarise the content of the Basque Government's proposal. The starting point is the diagnosis of the complexity of this problem and its evolution, as well as the assessment and evaluation of the work carried out in recent years by the Basque institutions. The strengths of what has been achieved, together with their areas of improvement, and the new needs posed by demographic reality allow us to identify with rigour the way out of this new stage that is being promoted. On the one hand, the initiatives under way and the deepening of which is still necessary were identified. On the other hand, those new wedges that must be articulated in order to allow a change of trend in the demographic decline. We have a total of 37 initiatives. Four new proposals should be highlighted. First, to articulate a direct aid of 200 euros per month per dependent son or daughter up to three years, in line with the programs of the first thousand days promoted by Unicef. Secondly, to enable programmes of subsidized or interest-free loans and long-term repayments for entrepreneurship, training or housing projects for young people. Third, guarantee free in the 0 to 2 years stage, strengthening the Haurreskolak Consortium. Fourth, incorporating the demographic perspective... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...third, ensure gratuitousness in the zero to two-year phase, strengthening the Haurreskolak consortium. Fourth, incorporate the demographic perspective into the development of investment rules, strategies, plans or programmes, amending Act 8/2003 on the Procedure for the Development of General Provisions. Direct aid of EUR 200 per month per descendant up to the age of three shall be provided for families who do not exceed a standardized income of more than EUR 100,000 and shall be compatible with current tax deductions and with the child/daughter support of Income Guarantee Income. Up to three years, families will receive 2,400 euros per year per descendant. In addition, they will have the savings that tax deductions will entail: for one son or daughter, 950 euros per year; for two, about 2,100 euros. If the family does not have sufficient resources, it will also benefit from income-guarantee subsidies per dependent child. These measures are accompanied by the extension of rental aid up to EUR 275 per month under the Gaztelagun programme. Also the programs of loans for housing, training or entrepreneurship, the gratuitousness of the Haurreskolak from zero to two years, or measures of reinforcement of reconciliation. A family with two sons or daughters can receive every year, and up to three years, EUR 6,900 in tax subsidies and deductions, in addition to housing rental grants, child care free of charge and conciliation grants. In addition, current support for large families between the ages of four and seven will be maintained. With this set of measures we are shaping an ecosystem of favourable conditions for the emancipation and construction of families. Direct aid of EUR 200 per month over an initial three-year horizon aligns with a United Nations-promoted approach. The 1,000-day programmes are based on a Unicef concept, which underlines the decisive character of the first three years of life for the future of a child. It recommends that public administrations focus their investments on the first thousand days and ensure that families receive sufficient support to provide the child with adequate living conditions. This extraordinary measure up to three years will enter into force in 2023, and will be compatible with tax deductions, income-guarantee payments, rental aid, loans or conciliation measures which are also maintained after three years. In any case, there are no measures that alone have miraculous effects. The bet is to promote a sustained and sustainable support system that creates a framework of favourable conditions both for emancipation and for families to have the children they want when they want, without forced delays due to the lack of conditions. The demographic strategy predicts total 37 activities. It is obvious that the lines which are intended to help the young to acquire the house, are a plan or a policy for answering the work of young men. This set of teams is structured in four axes: the help of young men's fertility, of helping them build family projects, the autonomous life of old men, and the policies to promote socialization. These three have an indirect character; the increase of field value, projection, digestion, communication, and budget. Among new teams there are four proposals drawn. First, 200 euro direct support for a month, a responsible son or three years per daughter. Second, preparation for young people, preparations, or long-term subsidised or uninterested loans and return programs for the housing projects. The third is to guarantee freedom by strengthening the Union of Children in the year 0-2 and inpan. Fourth, in rules, in strategics, in plans, or in investment programs, inserting demographic views. The first proposal, that is, 200 euros a month, will be given to those who have income less than three hundred dollars a month. This help will be accepted in the year 2023, and will be compatible with the present tax collectors, and also with the rents of money. This measure will strengthen a number of assistance and protection, which will structure the most appropriate system of all the means for giving and family construction conditions. A family with two children, year by year, and third year, can receive them with 6,900, direct aid from the prosecutors. In the same way he can get help to the rent of the house, the freeing of the nursemaid, and her assistance to the council. After three years, and until they arrive at the main age, the tax-collectors, the revenue aids of the rent, the loans, or the proportion of loans, will continue. 200 euro support in the first three years of the month follows the criteria of the first 1,000 days of unicef approximated program. There is no measure in wonderful effects. That's why the bet is complete. A permanent and constant system of assistance will be encouraged, which will produce the scope of favourable conditions, as well as the children of families, when they desire to be given. After all, this strategy has an integrated perspective. And it involves the political policies of the house, employment, education, health, health, and social preparations. I'll give you three examples. First of all, one of the goals of the American Basque strategy for 2030 will be to help young people with their migration and mobile projects. The four axiss are set up for the following table: to preserve the young Basques which participate in the projects of mobileness, to attract young people from foreign origin, to restore the young and families that have an emigration project... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... To preserve the young Basques, to attract young strangers from foreign origins, to restore the young and families that have an emigration, and to connect them with the young Basques and the Basques who are migrating. The recipients will be people between 20 and 40 years old, including families that have children and plan to return. I stress that the new order of the Gaztelagun Programme regulating the rental of housing for young people, adopted at the Governing Council on 26 April, with the aim of encouraging the emancipation of young people, extends the number of people who can access the programme, the time of receipt up to 36 years and the monthly amount of aid up to 275 euros. It is also important to highlight the importance of the field of migration integration. He stressed in this regard the importance of the transfer of competence in the field of immigration and work permits, which I consider to be a priority. This can be a milestone in developing a Basque model of attraction, reception and labour integration of migration in Euskadi. The implementation of this model, in addition to complying with the provisions of the Basque Social Pact for Migration, should lead to a positive impact on our demographic reality in the coming years and decades. In short, the first objective of this strategy is to promote a change in the negative trend, both in the age of emancipation and in birth rates to move towards a demographic recovery scenario. The second is that this change in trend and the actions that drive it are sustained and sustainable in the long run, as well as its full alignment with the sustainable development goals of United Nations Agenda 20-30. The strategy and all actions are informed by the gender perspective. The strategy of the Demographic Challenge builds on the recognition of the profound process of change in which family structures are immersed, promoting the support of this family diversity, equal treatment and non-discrimination of individuals and families. The demographic situation is a first-class concern, as well as a local point of view. An international organization invites the demography decline and the antiquity of the population to give the greatest priority. This subject is part of the strategic gaze of the United Nations of 20-30 Age, the countries which offer the best brakes offer more resources to promote the project of independent young life, and to provide direct economic aids for families for each child. As may be seen in the introduced documentation, we shall particularly observe the examples of France and Sweden, because they are countries where the best results have been produced in the answer to the demographic. We are faced with a risk, also with a great opportunity for the future. In the coming weeks we will have a common and cross-cutting strategic framework. It will be linked with the contributions of this Parliament, with a Country Plan. A strategy with the look set in 2030. It is for everyone in the spirit of the common good that we should be able to act on this subject on the basis of major agreements. A great consensus is needed to address this demographic challenge. Euskadi's projection on the 2030 horizon and the next decades is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. We're going over to the answering shift. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say, as might be expected, that today was a very interesting discussion. I think they've put a very fat subject on the table, and they've brought in some interesting plans, haven't they? I believe that I have seen what I say today at the beginning of my discourse, and that different relattos are built on the return of demography. And we have seen, or heard, discourses built from feminism, and the changeable propositions they bring. And we have seen those proposals which are not founded on feminism, and which are intended to maintain the state, although some necessary changes in the state are attempted to answer these changes. And, well, he's legitimate. We each have our projects, and we have our plans, each of us defends his own. In any case, realism and every reading of reality take them from these positions. It is not the property of anyone; and it is not objective in this respect. If they are discursive, each builds his reality, or the anti-opasible ways of viewing things. And it's important to accept that because we see things different, Mr. President. But today was... Today I proposed a compartmental starting-point in that sense. And there have been many different recruits, and I don't know what this division is from, because you've talked about the demographic winter, and I think that when you talk about the demographic winter it's important especially to look at these women or to show them what a demographic summer is and to be clear. I think the EAJ member said it, because after all we knew today's discussion that each of us was taking the argument from different positions. And that's not a problem either, if you don't... We would all all be in the street in the same group, and it is not so; and it is plain that we defend different political positions and different political projects, is it not? You said the goal was a multiple society and an equality. If society is multiple, escal... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...that we defend them, right? You used to say that a multitude of societies are founded on equality. There is a society of euscal society, where there is a variety of society. It may be objected that we ought not to concentrate ourselves now, as you have mentioned, in order to attract the emigrants, in order to answer our wants, but that our ambition should be to receive potent programs in order to become citizens of eroscals, and to be able to be the same rights as those of the Basques, and to build their own projects here with freedom and all rights. And it's a society based on equality, but from that status quo we women are not in different political positions. And from these interested recruits, which defend the maintenance of political states, there have been heard here − some uneasiness about these combustions, it is certain our bodies are employed for political purposes. And, Dede Luego, the men of the Basque Country are not ready, and I have said this more than once, using our bodies for political purposes. But, in any case, they are the posts of each one, as I have said. I think there is, we know that the President Urkullu is for the most beautiful durations, he once told us, that in the maintenance of it he is for politics. But I think, and I said before, that what I'd done and done is important and that we're in the presence of a demographicly failure, the running policies have been a failure. Ze hemen aipatu da krisa, hemen aipatu da pandemic, Ukraine; it is the fault of all but the policies of this government. Eta, well, tonu distended Honetan Gaudenez, brometan esaten genuen, esan beharko dugu gaur ere bai, bathe of those dusts, Mr Urkullu, these birth rates. Beraz, I think it is very important that we understand that birth policies have been a failure and that this is not the way to tackle the challenge ahead. And I used to ask, I don't know, because there's a strategic therapy that's done here, or because it wants to look at the time, or that's what's planned here as a conscious script, to keep that status quo. And I think it would be important to exploit that, too. I was planning a recipe at first for a just and bearable demographic pattern. There must be others, but they are important from our point of view, and, in a certain sense, from different positions, which may possibly serve to obtain the agreements; to look after people, to ease the ways of giving, to secure worthy lives, and not to re-establish paternal relations. And here the President Urcullu has brought us different proposals, and in those proposals which have been made in our groups these days. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Oh, yeah? And as for the care of the people, I see that a new transition to the pretty societies mentioned, or a policy to build a policy for the nerves. Vicular with the strategic plan. We've been 3 years. Waiting for the strategic plan, three years, three years. And we speak in the document, and it is said in the planets, we must go to some other plan of old age, to understand active age, to understand care in another way. But there is no definite plan for the development of social services, eupscal social services, and we're talking about a ten-year strategy of an idea that was discovered in 2008. We are planned to provide an excuse for the means of assisting him in this field, my friend. Pues at this rate, at 2030, probably if the formula is a friend of Castile, they'll be young when they're 50. That's what the Opinions said, too. The patriarchal relations are not made to produce again, and it is not possible, for instance, to direct them by an analysis of the pretty, or by a plan. And to restore worthy lives, the different things that are planned for us. The progress of infantile infants between 0-2 years, which has been established in the education agreement, if the occasion be to materialize beyond September. And the other is the proposition you brought us today. Well, no esta mal. You have certainly brought a proposal because you have been forced to bring a proposal to this particular table, already put on the table the proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu for a universal benefit of 150 euros. The Podemos proposal for a benefit of EUR 100 had already been put on the table. And like all things, for many times the truth usually has three phases: once, it ridicules itself first; then, it opposes saying that it is insurmountable, that it cannot be realized; and then it is assumed as evident. Well, it is not wrong that in this sense it has been possible to start in this full monograph that from the indefinacy already we are in the approaches that Unicef makes of that aid that you have announced today from 0 to 3 years of 200 euros. You were talking about 6,900 euros, I think I understand, in the different benefits that can be made, that can be received. Well, that's Unicef's proposal, there are Save the Children's proposals that extend those aids to 18 years of age. There are also Hirukide's proposals for such universal benefits up to the age of 18. And you have the opportunity today, considering that there is a large majority in this House that is already betting on universal benefits, to try to complement that measure which is so limited, because you should bear in mind that there is a study in Spain that says that raising a child, a daughter costs between 111.489 euros and 354,298 euros. Yeah? That's until you're 18. And if we add the 20% added cost that you have to live here, well, there you have the measure of the proposal that we... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...euros. That's until you're 18. And if we add the 20% added cost that you have to live here, well, there you have the measure of the proposal that you have brought us. That we don't deserve it, but I think it could be a first step, but that in view of a ten-year strategy it should be extended to 18 years, and with other amounts. But, as I said before, there have not been divers-coloured measures, but we have changeable measures on the table. Our team has put up our teams who plan our 46 approximation suggestions, about those propositions that make up that recipe, about the development of the social services, as far as the reception programs for the migrations are concerned, about the programmes of accelerated fertility, policies for securing worthy lives, proposals for relemborizion in a different way. We've got a chance to make deals in this interval. And what I expect is, like in the previous monographicographic, even if it's until the last minute, the view... that when the frame of what is possible has been opened, and has been torn apart, it is possible to make an effort to enlarge further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mystto-Vox must not speak. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u18	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I'll scream. Well, I'm going to start referring to some issues that the lehendakari has pointed out. When I was talking about answers, not automatic solutions, that these processes are sustained over time, I would tell you that, obviously, that is so, Mr. lehendakari, but I think we are late and that on this issue - I have to tell you this - I think this government has caught the bull. You already in 2016, even before, talked about the demographic challenge. You spoke this year, when you presented your government program and when it was the investiture session, which was one of the great country challenges the issue of the demographic challenge, and a strategy was contemplated in the government program. And last year we didn't get a chance to have this strategy. You referred to an initiative, to a non-legislative proposal that was passed in this Parliament. And I remember it very well, because the drivers of such an initiative were us, and, in the end, we managed to have a text with you. And, of course, I believe that it also served as an impetus to the Government in a matter in which, obviously - we must say so - this Government had not been highlighted precisely by significant activity, and significant or silent initiatives, or above all effective in addressing the problems we have. I will focus on some issues very briefly. You talk about the incorporation of women into the world of work. I want to stop here, because I think the conciliation difficulties that women have... And I think the women we're in politics are privileged - and that must be said - in politics or also in the administration itself. There are many difficulties in reconciling, especially when conciliation, not only the care of children, but of dependent persons, mainly falls on women. And that's why I think we need to be ambitious here. We have put forward some proposals in this regard. And I hope that you will study it, because I believe that some of these proposals benefit above all from facilitating the reconciliation, above all, of women's groups. When we talk about the figures we have - which I am not going to review, because you yourself have made reference - that affect the decrease in school courses, the number of students, and above all the lack of manpower, here too we put forward specific proposals with a talent attraction plan. I believe that here we must be absolutely realistic, no matter how much it hurts us, because I think it is not nice to see as many young people as we do, as many young people of my generation who have gone away to study and left out to study. You have younger children than I do, but you know that many young people are going to study outside, but they do not return to the Basque Country. And that we have to see as a problem and as a drama, when then on top we have difficulty attracting talent, lehendakari. And that's the way it is. The other day I had the opportunity to be with managers of important companies based in the Basque Country and they said the problem you have encrypted: the 400 people we are going to have for lack of labor. But they said the difficulties of obtaining certain qualified profiles, and, above all, that when they have possible registrations outside the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And this is also a reality that cannot be overlooked. I know that you are nationalists, but I believe that first and foremost the interests of the Basques must be put forward, and in this case on employment, and that companies must be given the opportunity to grow. And they told me: I have several registered engineers, but they don't come to the Basque Country, because they can't carry out a life project, they can't school their children, because there's going to come a time when they have to believe in Basque. I believe that you have to take a look at this question, because this is really an obstacle for people with a necessary qualification to be able to settle in the Basque Country. And I'm telling you, not to mention the young people who leave and don't come back. It's just that I have friends who tell me they don't come to the Basque Country because they don't have the opportunities in the Basque Country they have in other autonomous communities. And I'm not talking to him alone about Madrid anymore. I mean, point it out too... Catalonia has already been discarded for a long time, but point also Andalusia, point also Andalusia, which goes like a shot. Not to mention that Euskadi is the autonomous community that has lost autonomous, that is losing autonomous, that there are other communities that are growing in the number of autonomous. And those realities, lehendakari, are there. As I am focusing on the specific proposals I have referred to, I can see as a step forward that you are announcing to us today a direct aid of EUR 200... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... concrete proposals also to which I have referred, I can see as a step forward that you are announcing to us today a direct aid of EUR 200 per month, compatible with all the aid that may exist at present, but I think it is insufficient. I think we need to be more ambitious, we need to be more ambitious. And we have been ambitious because I also believe that there are possibilities also with the reality of economic data and the levels of collection of outlaws. I have the data, you have to have it. From January to April, compared to the previous quarter, Bizkaia raised 471 million more, 17.9%, almost 18% more; Gipuzkoa, 208 million more, 20.4%; and Alava, 88.2%, 18.4% more. I think we deserve Basques, and especially when we have the problem of the demographic challenge, when our companies are telling us that we have a problem of competitiveness, of labour, that we are not attractive... You know that. I understand that these things are often not pleasant to hear. But this is the reality. And there's room for action, there's room for action. That is why I appreciate the proposal that you have been able to make for this EUR 200 per month, but I think it remains short of the EUR 1.5 billion left over from the Basque Government, in relation to the increases in collection in percentages of 20% of the out-of-town seats. That is why I think it is not ambitious, but it is realistic to write a cheque linked to the IRPF, regardless of the outcome, we are talking for all people, for 1,250 euros up to the age of 18. It's just that I think this is possible. And that is why we put forward these kinds of proposals, because they are possible and realistic. I haven't heard you say anything about the increase in ascendant deductions either. I believe that deductions for ascendants can also be increased when living with the taxpayer. As well as deductions by degree of dependency. There is another proposal that I hope for some sensitivity. And we have the counselor here, too. Because you did arbitrate certain measures - and we applaud them - throughout the pandemic in relation to conciliation. And I think you guys would have to expand... to extend the age for the recruitment of working persons for the care of children under the present three years to 14 years, with retroactive effect. I believe that this is one of the measures that you can consider. And in relation to the elderly and dependence. We have a problem. It has been said here, the older population and the causes that affect the older population. We have a hope of years... That we live longer, that's very good. But that has a clear impact on the social system and the health system that needs to be addressed. And I haven't heard you say anything about this. I know it is the competence of the outside bodies, but, well, I think something could also be said, especially when we are talking about increasing social and health housing. The social and health area is also the responsibility of the Basque Government. The increase in the amount of the health financing module is also the responsibility of the Basque model of social and health resources for dependent and disabled people. Strengthen the model of home care by increasing the places of day centres, the coverage of DSS, the amounts of personal assistance provided. And I'm gonna end up talking about the job. Promoting and implementing actions with youth employment is something of necessity, of urgent necessity. And, in that sense, we in our proposals also put forward a youth employment shock plan. If young Basques do not have employment opportunities, to improve their skills, to have personalized itineraries adapted to their profiles and to the demand... And we also have to connect once and for all. And this is where Lanbide also has to work effectively. The profile of job seekers with the profile of the demand that exists in the companies themselves. And that is a deficit that is currently also pointed out by the entrepreneurs themselves. And I'm done. Not to mention education. We have to have an education - and here is the counselor too - where we have exclusive competences, we have a significant expenditure, an important budget. Let us make an effort in the universal gratuitousness of children's education, in the expenses also of transportation, of dining, in the gratuitousness of textbooks. I believe that those issues, Mr Lehendakari, when we are proud that we are in a community, well, rich, that we have money, the effort that citizens make must be returned to the citizens. And when we are talking about a priority and urgent issue, and where we have a structural problem such as the demographic challenge, I sincerely believe, and with all due respect, that a greater effort can be made. And, in that regard, I hope that some of our proposals too, which I recognise are ambitious, but which are in line with what is being done in the countries of our environment, and you who so much like to look at Europe and look at yourself in the mirror of Europe, for I believe that some of these proposals have to look at them with real interest. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u19	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u20	Yeah. Thanks again, ma'am. We have discussed the first part of the demographic challenges, and have made several points of which we ought to take a special turn during the legislation. And I think it's a thing in the air and that's clearly made up for these challenges, that it's necessary to make specific commitments to children, young, master and family to protect them too. And now it's... that we have a perfect opportunity to make precise commitments in these matters today. Because we have problems, it's true, we have problems. On the one hand, to enjoy a different family model in this country. We can't enjoy equality if we want to produce different types of families... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... to enjoy the different in this country. We cannot enjoy equality if we wish to produce different types of families. Because we have a problem with children's poverty rate. Here in our hometown,26,7, 100... 26,7% of the minors live in poverty or social neglect. And this is a serious problem with which we have to face. We've got a problem in this town, too, when the kids will be working. That's 30 years old. It's hard to create a family project... early in the morning, if it's 30 years in which our young men plan here to make their independent lives. And we have a problem with pensions too. We don't have a... the pensioners do not generally acquire a sufficient appetite to satisfy their wants. So we have problems with this demographic challenge. And that's why I said it's important to get a deal, get a town deal. Today, we get a few settlements from here and get out of here so we can settle our problems. We've run about 50 resolutions. We'll explain it in the other afternoon, we'll open it. And that would be what we'd like, and this would be our team's wish as I was saying this day in the −, in order to get that national pact, which demands the analysis... To be able to make a common analysis of all these questions which have been mentioned. A common analysis from a feminist look. If you could... who would take his place in particular service and preparation, and in particular measures of attorney. The measures, after all. And this would be the family, in order that it may be a security space, not an inevitable survival. With this trust and all our strength and intelligence, we will really work in order to get this necessary agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u22	All groups in this House agree that the demographic situation is a priority concern, and that is important. In recent years the Basque institutions have carried out activities that have affected this demographic reality with policies aimed at the areas of family, reconciliation, co-responsibility, employment, housing and social protection. But we have pointed out that steps must be taken to change that trend. And we count on those wieners. We have this working paper of December 14, 2021 where the Deputies and Eudel have participated, and they constitute... and they will form the basis documents for the elaboration of this Basque strategy of demographic challenge of 2030 with which we will find already in June this year. In addition, the Basque Government has made a firm commitment to incorporate into this strategy all that we can agree here today, all the agreements we reach here today, which can be added to it. Today in this monograph we have the opportunity to continue working in this line, and to seek the broadest political consensus in the public policies to be taken to achieve that goal in the coming years, up to 2030, and in the coming decades. That is why it is so important for us to achieve the maximum possible consensus for this; with a short-term objective, to achieve this change in the trend of ownership of the population pyramid. With a medium-term objective, to ensure that this change in trend is also sustained and sustainable. And with a long-term objective, move from a demographic decline scenario to a demographic recovery scenario, reinforcing the ongoing actions. And all this on the basis of the transversality and the needs of the prospecting, dissemination and communication of them. And in addition and fundamental, having a budget for it. And based on the findings of experience in recent years, it considers it necessary to build on an integrated vision, which covers housing, employment and health education policies, socio-health care, social benefits, assistance and capacity-building support, taking into account the dual urban and rural dimension, with short- and medium-term initiatives. All this on the basis of cooperation between the four public sectors, enterprises, third sector, families and Community networks. And taking into account different perspectives: the gender perspective, the perspective of diversity, equal treatment and non-discrimination, the perspective of co-responsibility and development of a model where the two parents participate in the same measure of productive, labour, reproductive and care tasks. With a view also to guaranteeing the right of the elderly to promote their full autonomy, being able to freely choose whether they want to stay at home or not, being able to carry... and carrying in any case, a full life. Demographic policies must be placed at the centre of the Basque political agenda. And with that perspective of centrality of the process... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... demographic policies must be placed at the centre of the Basque political agenda. And with this perspective of centrality of the process of emancipation of young people, without having to delay their project of life for lack of opportunities and without having to delay it the children they want to have. We must achieve a change in the trend towards policies to support youth emancipation, reducing the average age of emancipation by 2024 from 32.2 to 29 years. And by 2030 below 28. We must manage to change the downward trend in the birth rate in the short term, with a target of 15 per cent increase in the birth rate by 2030. At the rural level, we must also be able to respond to the depopulation and ageing of the rural environment, as well as achieving full and healthy ageing and attracting immigration. And within the short-term drive actions, it includes as a working hypothesis, reconfigure the child support model with an increase in its amount, a programme of loans for entrepreneurship, training and housing projects for young people without interest, and then free children's schools from zero to two years to facilitate reconciliation and demographic transversality, taking into account the demographic perspective in the laws, rules, strategies, plans and investment programmes to be developed. In the long-distance actions highlight, with regard to young people, narrowing the generational gap, supporting young people's life projects, increasing public spending on these homes for young people and the percentage of those affected. A youth employment shock period integrated into the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery, ensuring personalized support for their itineraries. With regard to families: encouraging each family to have the children they want and promoting co-responsible reconciliation measures, as well as developing local ecosystems to support families with children from zero to six years of age. And with regard to older people: continue to promote healthy active ageing, professionalization of the care sector, encouraging the Silver Economy, promoting policies to support a new model of care and the detection of socio-health risk factors. And in the area of migration: overcoming the difficulties of arrival of migrants, defining the model of reception and developing the Basque Social Pact for Immigration. My group, the Socialist Group, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, will be presenting 39 proposals that are directed in line and aligned with the working document that we have. Seven of the proposals concern the direction and priority of this demographic challenge. Six more proposals for young people; five more for the construction of family projects. Fourthly, five proposals to promote migration. Sixthly, six proposals aimed at the autonomous and full life of the elderly. Four more proposals for proposals to enhance rural upgrading, and six proposals to strengthen communication and dissemination on population issues. We can now adopt a significant number of resolutions tabled by all the parliamentary groups in this House. Now we're going to have a break. It is up to us to work to get as many agreements as possible. Let's start working on it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u23	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u24	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Well, as you can see, an interesting discussion we have here today. It is not a sterile discussion, and this challenge on the table is not easily solved. But, as I have shown in the former part, this is a purpose of the Government, and government has established it as a national purpose, and it is established in the government program. And he has not only spoken to words, but the measures of government have been present, not only to-day, but also to all those measures which have been pre-made. Gaur, they're bezala lehendakariak, neurri zehatzak ekarri said. It has brought concrete aid, direct aid, 200 euros for sons and daughters up to three years old, interest-free loan – one measure I think is quite innovative – the gratuitousness of zero-to-two-year haurreskolas and the introduction of the demographic perspective, regulatory changes... These are concrete measures and are ambitious, necessary, bold, appropriate measures... And let us hope to be able to say within a time that they have been correct measures. But we will not see that tomorrow, nor will we see it in six months, because assessing the impact of demographic policies is something that requires patience, it is something that I believe requires a certain serenity. Because my colleague Aitor Urrutia has said this quite often in this rostrum: if we really want to transform a society, a country in a demographic way and make a demographic bet we really have to wait. And we can't describe it as a failure or a failure or a failure or a failure or a failure or a failure or a failure or failure or a failure or failure or a failure or failure, or a failure or failure, or a failure or failure or failure, or a failure or failure or failure, or a failure or failure or failure, or a failure or failure or failure, or a failure or failure or failure, or a failure or failure or failure or failure, We also share the fact that it is not about or the solution to the demographic challenge does not consist of... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... until they have not seen the results of them. We also share the fact that this is not about or the solution to the demographic challenge does not consist of star measures, resounding measures that may have a large budget allocation. What we understand is that it is about generating an ecosystem in which families, young people, young women and women can have access to housing, they can start a life project, that migrants are welcomed not by an economic issue, by a social issue, but also by an economic perspective. And that's our position and that's the one we're going to defend. I'd like to think a few things over, too, about what the teams have been talking about. And it is that these types of jobs sometimes become a kind of full of general policy, where everyone tries to make a totum revolutionutum of all subjects and tries to search or introduce their political discourse with footwear, even if it is not a topic that comes to the debate. And although it shouldn't be, it might even be logical for this to be this way, but if something isn't logical or if it's not serious, it's a group that's trying to agree with the government. Coming here to try to stage an absolutely catastrophic scenario when it's being negotiated, it's talking to the government, because it's not serious. And in that regard, I would like to say to Mrs Garrido a couple of things, which I believe her party is boasting - I do not know if it will be so true - that it is boasting of being a rigorous party with public accounts, which believes in budgetary rigour. It must be said that the proposal they have made of the tax check would be at least EUR 450 million. I think we need to be a little more rigorous. And you have also mentioned the decree of caregivers for children aged 0 to 14. You know what the status of the decree is; you are working on it. The ECO report has been received, and you know it. And besides, you have to tell him that this decree establishes the aid retroactively from 2021, and not since the course 2021-2022, as you were requesting. It is even more ambitious than what you request. Therefore, I believe that it is something that must be taken into account. And even if the Basque Country is with the Collect, there's something to discuss in this first round. To me, to tell you the truth... The tone is grateful, I think it's getting quite constructible in tone. It's not a bad tone that this discussion took. But, to tell you the truth, I don't really like that mention you made between two examples, do I? There seems to be a feminist pattern and another pattern is not feminist. I don't share that. I don't share it. And in that sense, I understand that you have introduced a fallacy. You assume that the Government, or our groups, the groups that we support the Government, do not have a feminist discourse, that that feminist discourse has it only you. You or other groups are in opposition. And as a result, alternative discourses or discourses coincident with that have been generated. I have been reminded by certain groups that when talking about the right to abortion they confuse and try to confuse and speak, and they seem to understand that guaranteeing the right to abortion is forcing women to abort, it is not guaranteeing their right to abort. Something like that happens with birth. Implementing Christmas policies is not forcing people to be mothers. No, it's giving her a chance to be a mother whenever she wants, the children she wants. And that's what the government is about. So, hours as a benetan patriarchatuak ezarriko duena gizarte honetan? Hori ez yes. Hori ez yes. And following a little with the birth policies, we must say that the demographic challenge is much more than birth, and it is much more in the Government's Strategy, it is much more in the speech that from our parliamentary group we have had, in the speech of the lehendakari the demographic challenge is much wider. But we believe that birth should be fostered, it should be fostered. Eases must be made so that people who want to be mothers or fathers can be mothers or fathers. It just seems like being a christmasman in himself is bad. It's not, being a christmasman isn't bad. What is bad is to prejudge, is to establish roles for women in society, is to force them to have children, is to assume that by being women they have to have offspring, is to stigmatize those people who decide not to have them. That's bad, obviously. But it is also wrong to do nothing to solve a problem - an issue, a phenomenon - that is putting at risk the maintenance of our welfare system, of the welfare system from which many variables hang that make us have the quality of life that we have today. And then you've also done a review about the role that teams have been involved in this strategy. And I would remind you of the way this strategy leads. And the government introduced four documents in December that were born with the intention of establishing this strategy. It's true that these documents came here from us and the Social Party and the Poptular Party, and you didn't, because of a middle course. And you know, you've spent more time in this legislature than I have, and you know how usually procedures are, and you know that the government generally presents a closed strategy, then there's a monographicographic, and the resolution proposition which is presented in this monographico is not necessarily to be included in the strategy. Well, the government doesn't have that kind of thing in this case, it doesn't do things that way. The government introduced documents, opened a process of talking to groups, which is true, and opened a procedure. And you, it's obvious, and it's respectable, because you preferred to call me a monographic, because you work more easily in front of the microphone than behind the computer. And it's respectable, and what the government decided about? Well, in this monographicographic, they agreed to penetrate into the strategy the projections of the resolution. This means that we have discussed − more than once, which supposes an opportunity, but also demands responsibility. And we must have that responsibility, and I think we shall see the resolutions at noon today, and in the afternoon we shall try to disagree with all the groups. And I think I can finish this first shift. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Díez. The Union is suspended until about four-quarters of an hour. And so that we can register proposals for the General Secretary of the Parliament until about two-quarters of an hour. The meeting was interrupted at one and fourteen o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u26	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the entire bikkull. The legal teams, in the order presented by the proposal, will have a period of 20 minutes to talk. The intervention of the teams is, therefore, the representative of the EH Collector, Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as we've seen, this legislature isn't very accessible. Maybe some changes will have to be made. This discussion today shows that we have a notorious challenge from the demography point of view. It is evident that our people require profound discussions, especially before they find quick answers to the present state, it is more important to begin to plan the questions which we are to answer in the future. What foundation do we wish to establish in our own country that we may be able to support all our lives? What public policy does our people need to start a real transformation? All this, and more, we wanted to bring them back to the monographic demography today. We must design a path to represent the future, and above all to ensure a worthy future to all people. What we say and how we say it is all in politics. That is why we have made it clear that we are not facing a demographic problem, but a challenge. The data have changed, it is an unquestionable reality: there are older than young people, and the demographic pyramid has been reversed. Faced with this reality, we have two options. We can take our hands to our heads and scream for eternity that we must bring more and more children into this world. But we can also observe this data as a reality that is not given to us and pose ambitious public policies... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ...bring more and more children into this world. But we can also observe this data as a reality that is not given to us, and put forward ambitious public policies from other perspectives. Vital expectations have changed, people's lives have been constantly changing, people's needs and desires have changed. To understand this there are two fundamental and also contradictory factors. On the one hand, the vital precariousness that the system is imposing and extending has put all our lives on top, it is becoming increasingly difficult to imagine and build a project of autonomous life. Also in the case of those who decide to have a son or daughter. Nor what to say in the case of those who want to keep them out of the prevailing way of understanding the family and motherhood or fatherhood. On the other hand, we must highlight the political, social and cultural advances that have been made thanks to the feminist struggle. As a result, for example, we women do not just aspire to be mothers, we aspire to govern our bodies, our desires and, ultimately, our lives. To decide freely whether or not to be mothers, and if so, to do so in conditions of dignity and equality. But we know perfectly well that all our vital aspirations are not feasible in this system where the decision-making capacity is undermined by thousands of factors: economic, social, racial, patriarchal, political and so on. Faced with this, our idea is clear: we need to change the root system to give way to the wishes and needs of all people. This is not about how many people we need to continue to support the system as we know it, but how we transform the system so that those people we live can live in dignity and on equal terms. In this sense, personally, the discussion today is particularly interesting to me and even to our generation. We are but few demographics; this is what the young one repeats over and over again. Therefore, we believe that all these demographic challenges are a matter of collective cultivation. I've been hanging around with what my colleague Kortja has said in the morning, and I can't get on with it once more with mine and everything he told me. We are often constructing the unstable life of this day from the stability which generations have given us, he has expressed it. Yeah. And that's the crack between generations. That's what I'd say. It is not a crack between the generations that I open a discussion with my parents about music tastes; it is not to understand or to understand whether our parents are wearing our clothes nowadays. It's not the cracks between the generations that you and the records we can have. We're in the middle of a generation war right now. Because this world, according to our previous generations, is read according to their will and need; that is to say, at the present day, the horizon, inspiration, and ends of the jing of Baby Boom, are also suggested to us by us. Why? Because the world still remains to be read according to the previous circumstances. But the world has changed. It is a remarkable modification, and it must necessarily be possible for public institutions to anticipate the present state and what is to come. We've been talking about a generation pact this morning. And this subject must necessarily be connected with the modification of public politics, and with another institutionalization. In fact, we have to discuss the generalized demographics of old age. We know that in this decade of our lives the demographic pyramid will change terribly, but this does not mean that this will be bad or worse in its own case, but that we have not prepared our structures, nor have given any necessary change in that sense. This demographic old age means that the surveillance work necessary for life now leads to generations of Baby Boom, but we know that it will not exist in the Baby Boom generation 2.0, which cannot be the main political goal. We have to move forward to the roots. It cannot be the only solution to young society, because the problem is much more complex and more complex. The process of growing up is like a burden, but what can you do then? For it is inevitable that we should go to a public guard, which is founded on the welfare of all, not only on the preservation of the families. This is how depherization policies work. This is the life of individuals in a collective manner. And here's what we've said, too. Our generation can't have the ill-governed challenges before it can turn its back. We must be brave, because we will not find an alternative in the lives of the family and in the mercantized lives. Come on. This isn't like Romania Eurovisionion. Las pollíticas plublicas para sonante reto democrafi no se traducte: Hola, mi bebebé, llámme, llámame. To modify real policies, let us have the ability to automate our lives, are public policies that we need to decide for real ability to achieve, and we inevitably need all this: discussion and work. Hence we have brought this profound discussion to the purpose of designing and imagining the people we wish to inhabit tomorrow. Politics are a process of creation, and we must necessarily refer to the present, in order to construct collective imaginations according to our desires. 'Erekoned a Demonstration, and today we wanted to make a collective exercise of culture and release of it, because there can be more ideas and political employments among us all.' This is why our proposals have been built from a construction point of view, and according to different axes. We propose another action to the future, even in the field of employment. As soon as uncertainty and prevarication have been extended, and have become structural, we have to take this step for redistribution of job and fortune, which, in addition to the dignity of employment, places wages in the centre of employment. Por ejemplo, nosotras no solo hablamos de reorderor el tempo de la la lajo... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...burbanaketarako urrats hori egin beharra daukagu. For example, we don't just talk about reordering working time, we also think we need to reduce it. But of course, without ever reducing the salary. That is why we propose that it be reduced to 32 hours per week. And, of course, you have to talk about the minimum wage. Because we need minimum wages according to our social reality. As the Social Card of Europe proposes, it is not possible to perpetuate these miserable wages, to promote worthy wages, and to leave the gates open to the Precinct. For how is it possible to live with these wages? The pretty ones that will condemn us to survive are not guaranteed to dignity. The cost of life is going up and up, and those wages are not possible in the actual reality of today. A minimum floor must be guaranteed to everybody. We have agreed, for instance, that in the field of the operation, the measures to promote the succession of generations will be set to work, connected with the employment of quality. These are interesting agreements, because they specifically mention what must be done forward in the three solutions, and for example special attention will be taken in the feminized sectors. These resolutions are interesting, all these agreements, and we believe they will be able to get a positive job. But we have also agreed in the area of the housing and the housing that the social problem of the vacant housing is in some way one of the principal columns of the housing policy. That's what we've done. And there's gonna be a chance for you to find measures and solutions in the future. Of course, this consent will be useful. But we believe that we must set bounds from above. You've got to build a minimum debt with that minimum of salary, but you have to limit it from above. And today it's scandalous to have a housing right without a guarantee, all of us who live in this town. It's not possible to keep up with the high price of the housing. We say that it is essential to have a chance to live on a rental of our lives. Today private rental market is like a forest, it's not possible to continue this, it's not possible to continue living in this sense. We have to limit the rents, we've said it a thousand times, we'll say it a thousand times. But we must also guarantee that this route, that everyone has a chance of making that rental route. And most of all, we have to guarantee that we don't have more than 30% of the pay payment. And there's no agreement, no progress. And how, even when we speak of all this, the young come in here. It is also a grant which this government has often alluded to, and which, of course, it has grafted into the strategy. But it's not an instrumental goal. It is necessary that we should all rely on the ability to determine the objects of our life, in order to make a project of life. They are political families, for instance, who continue to deepn themselves in subjection to their parents. Because we know that when young people can't afford to survive because of their parents. But we all need a warrant for the jurisdiction. And the right of giving was granted in the law of youth. The right was, but it was not allowed a means of execution and demand. And that's why we're like this. And Councilwoman Artolazabal said it clearly a few weeks ago full of control. That so far there has been no emancipation strategy, and we would say that of those disasters, now all these patches. The young man's projection is a preventive strategy of 2030, including the demography strategy, or a young collision plan. We don't know very well what, what, what, when, when, or when, we asked, we didn't have a good answer. We don't know if they're the same, they're different. But the young people are never supposed to know exactly what's to be done with politics. And that's why we've brought a basic income to young people between 18 and 23. Even in the previous political school we had brought with us, and it has been brought to us this time that we have seen the data of Castile, the application which certain young people demand, and that young intermediates between 18-23 will never supply the conditions which young friends require. For instance, we clearly see that a change of root must be given during this period of age, especially if we want to penetrate deeper and lower the rate clearly. It has also been mentioned that, in fact, our young friend, more than once, he will go up to 275 euros with a sum of money. And it seems to us that we have often heard this prediction, that it is a measure that has been told more than once, and that it may be time to invent something new. And in these terms, I should like to put into value an agreement suitable to the public transportation. Because we see that the use of public transportation is indispensable, and that among the younger ones there is a great deal to be used. And that is why we wish to be valued at the period at which the law permits, at that period of youth, to examine the rate of the rate of public transportation, and we really hope to obtain it. And we have especially given a special attention to the proposals which we have made to-day, about the universal preparation for each child, about the preparation of 18 years ago. And we have lately heard that at midday Unicef and Caritas have left saying that universal preparations for their children are necessary. Even Hirut has indicated it. Again, it is a measure of importance, and this is what we have brought with us. And the president's announcement between 0-3 years of preparation can be a step forward. But as this interval of age has been observed here, we must also protect the space of 3-18 ages, if we wish to guarantee worthy lives. We offer you a gradual application, especially because this is a ten-year-old stare strategy and it's the chance to get an engagement like that. It can't be, it's not allowed, but we think this will be a measure we'll bring back to as far as it's essential. And in the same way, President Urkullu told us that in announcing the preparation for 200 euros, he would keep the other measures which are expected for the council. And this needs some reflection. In fact, the 4 Family Plans are helping to protect the families. [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... that he will maintain the other measures which are expected for the council. And this must be a reflection, for IV. The family Plan helps to protect families identify system patches very well, and shows that they have a sessigo genus with these helps and even a economic sesg, especially because of the amount and the compensation. And that's clearly been identified by the same plan. And in our opinion, we have brought a measure of directing one of those patches in its revision and system, which has also been rejected and has not been referred to. We have to talk about children, because we have no agreement in this, unfortunately. And why do we say it, unfortunately? Well, children's school agreed on the education agreement will extend to the end of 2023. This change must be carried on as quickly as we can, and this agreement in the education agreement cannot wait until the end of 2023. It's a pity that a year and a half will last in time. And so it is necessary for us to do so, and we have not succeeded in doing so either, but this is something which must be worked forward, because it will come and must inevitably answer: Public transportation is going to be zero-12 years. It is curious that in this proposal we have received a circle of negative refusals, it ought to be an essential matter to encourage the public transport in any society; and more when we are in the midst of a certain ecological crisis. And we believe that children should have this for free between 0-12, they should have a right to it. And finally, we've been talking about care, inevitable, all day. I think that of Kotja, Mine, in the speech made to the parliamentary members of the Parliament, and that we must go before what I have said, to a public example of care. We clearly have to respond to new models of antiquity in integration. As the people of the village have the correct reference to health in their co-operation, we have stated, for instance, that in the area of care they have a right to guarantee the right to dignity and universal care, a process of creating a new organization. And this is essential. Why? Because of all care, public administration has to answer and, really, we have to take a lot of steps ahead of the town. And a big one, Maddalen Iriarte, quoted me as another big one, Angela Davis, who said: "The danger is that you will get four crumbs so that one will finally make a genuflexion before the status quo, and finally, nothing will change. The transformation of any area will not work if there is no global transformation." And this may be a metaphor about what happened today. We have obtained some agreement, which may be interesting in order to guarantee the welfare of the people in a short or long period. But it seems to us that those of the root of the visible planet have not been set up for the present. And thankfulness for the existence of the women we're going to meet to eternity, and thank God we've had a real transformation from the struggle to this place that's possible. We shall find, we believe, by the roots, that we shall all find a chance of living life. And in this we shall inevitably proceed, whether in respect of the demographic, or in respect of any romance, because this people deserves it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, again, everyone. During this morning's session, we have discussed demographics in depth and depth. We have set out our position by addressing what we consider should be the fundamental axes of the demographic challenge, to which we must also offer an urgent response, because it is something that we have found all those present here. The demographic challenge is a real problem that needs to be solved. The intervention of the lehendakari has been, from our point of view, self-congratulation, self-criticism, and a lot of self-congratulation. Measures that have contributed that are insufficient, little ambition, and in addition, prolongation of what is now the demographic winter, to which he also made reference in his speech, and above all, the demographic decline shows a reflection of the deterioration, decline and loss of leadership that this territory is suffering in recent years. I will try to explain our motions for resolutions on the matter before us today. We have presented 18, but well, it is not the quantity, but the quality. I think 18 proposals with a lot of common sense. Our proposals are consistent and consistent with what we have expressed this morning, bringing improvements to existing issues and introducing new measures that I hope will take into account. All this, since Vox's commitment to finding solutions to one of the main problems the Basque Country has today. If we do not look for short-term alternatives, it will certainly get worse, as has happened in recent decades. We become older as individuals, we become older as a society. This is good news, but we must lay the groundwork for us to be able, as we age, to establish an adequate protection system in parallel with the rejuvenation of the population. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, we have presented proposals addressing issues that, in our opinion, are relevant: employment, housing, birth, aging or generational relief. It must be the pillars on which solutions are supported. Solutions that we need to address in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way, as the perspective from which we need to address the demographic challenge is very varied. Undoubtedly, the personal economic situation determines the possibility and the decision when it comes to having offspring. Basques in all studies, reports or surveys demand as an essential measure to consider forming a family a stable job, with decent wages. Finish the... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... reports or surveys call for stable employment with decent wages as an essential measure to consider forming a family. Ending job insecurity must be a priority for the institutions. Unemployment affects 18% of the youth population. We are talking about almost one in five young people being excluded from the labour market and therefore excluded from any possibility of emancipation. Low wages, coupled with high temporality, represent a barrier and an almost insurmountable obstacle that directly affect our demographics. We have always argued that there is no better social policy than good employment. And this argument makes it extendable to demography: there is no better demographic policy than stable employment with adequate remuneration. The Basque Country must regain the economic leadership that we have lost throughout Spain. The Zedarriak report points out that this government does not like it either. The report blacks out the Basque oasis that the happy nationalist archadia apparently is not. We have lost the push and economic leadership we had at other times, and if we want to be attractive and improve our demography, we must recover it. The Basque Country was not so long ago seen as a land of opportunity, and now it is seen as a territory with few alternatives, where our young people emigrate and foreigners do not choose us as the first option. And that spiral must be changed immediately. Fostering birth should be another fundamental measure. The raising of a child entails a significant cost and disbursement for family savings, which at least extends until they are emancipated. Therefore, what Mr Lehendakari has proposed to us from 0 to 3 years seems to us to be scarce. We understand that more effort must be made from the Administration and the amounts must be increased as a way of helping to raise children. And this increase must be progressively greater depending on the number of children. But aid can come directly, or also accompanied by tax cuts. We are aware of the competence with regard to the approval of any fiscal amendment and that it resides on the General Boards of the three territories. But, through the Tax Coordination Authority, the Basque Government can also promote fiscal changes: it reduces, for example, by increasing deductions in the area of PRTI progressively from the second child, or by increasing the maximum age up to 20 years in the supplementary deduction of the tax for each descendant living with the taxpayer. Taxation must be at the service of the taxpayer, and to do so, we must increase tax deductions, so that money is in the citizen's pocket. Taxation must also help to alleviate the family economies of the Basques, not to fatten the Government's coffers. Voluntary termination of pregnancy is presented as an absolute and immutable right of women, offering all the necessary coverage. On the contrary, and surprisingly, there is little or, not to say no, coverage for women who wish to continue with their pregnancies but who encounter great difficulties that sometimes leads them to interrupt the pregnancy process. There are women, mainly young women, who, because of their precarious economic situation or because of family or social stigma, are forced to abort against their will, because of the lack of a network that offers them the coverage they need. This violates their right to be mothers and the protection of motherhood, which Vox believes should be a priority. We therefore call on the Basque Government, together with the other concerned administrations and associations in the third sector, which are aware of this problem, to establish a support network that offers the necessary coverage. Coverage not only economic, but also emotional, because these women also suffer a form of social exclusion. It is a matter of protecting the right of those who decide to be a mother voluntarily but are in a situation of both economic and emotional vulnerability. The right and protection of maternity must have greater legal coverage. Furthermore, article 39 of the Spanish Constitution, in the context of the guiding principles of social and economic policy, stipulates that the public authorities must ensure the social, economic and legal protection of the family, children and their mothers, irrespective of their marital status. We therefore consider it necessary to adopt legislation to protect the right of pregnant women who are determined to have their child, by providing the necessary social, educational and health resources for this purpose. A legal text that avoids the social helplessness sometimes suffered by pregnant women, with the creation of a network that offers coverage and support to these women, especially those at risk of socio-occupational exclusion. Through the Law on Support and Protection of Motherhood, we are committed to creating a set of socio-economic measures to care for these pregnant women, preferably those who, because they are at risk of social exclusion or are minors, need comprehensive support to exercise such motherhood. Access to housing. This is another key element from a demographic point of view. Without access to a new home, it is impossible to start a life-saving, self-sustaining project. Delays in the age of emancipation lead to a delay in the age of descent and in the number of children per woman. We believe that public housing policies should be improved. Of course I do. How? Increasing the public park, both on property and mainly on rent. There are thousands of Basques who demand public housing under protective conditions, hoping to start their life plan in this way. The Bizigune program tries to take out those private floors that are empty to the real estate market. The idea may be appropriate, but we believe that the quantities must be increased to encourage the owners to hand over their properties to the Basque Government. The maximum income set at 650 euros is far from the quantities offered on the free market, and it will therefore be difficult to obtain a greater number of assignments that make the assignment of their flats more attractive to the owners. We can also talk about the Gaztelagun programme. We believe that the amount intended to cover the rent of our young people, set at 276 euros, must also be increased, as well as the maximum age for receiving these aids, which must be increased to 35 years. On the other hand, taxation also has its place in the housing section. The percentages, of both rental and property deductions, should also be improved. We must take advantage of all the tools available to us to facilitate access to housing, both mortgage and rental payments... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... They must also be improved. We must use all the tools at our disposal to facilitate access to housing. Both mortgage and rental payments consume a very important part of Basques' income. And through taxation we can also compensate for this situation, thus helping to free family economies. We have spoken and stressed the importance of reconciling work and family life. Without measures conducive to reconciliation, we will hardly be able to make progress and achieve achievements in the area of population. We propose that the contract specifications require measures to promote work reconciliation, such as, for example, teleworking. Contracts concluded with the Basque Government and its dependent entities should establish clauses that encourage conciliation. And again, taxation also has its space here. We propose that the Tax Coordination Body should encourage the creation of tax deductions in company tax for those companies that establish childcare facilities for their employees, that make their schedules more flexible and that encourage teleworking. It is therefore a question of taking advantage of the instruments which encourage companies to take action in this regard. We do not bet on penalizing, but on encouraging. I think that is why we need to do this. And by taking advantage of the opportunity that taxation gives us to promote conciliation. Also during the morning session we were talking about the flight of talents to other territories in search of opportunities that they do not find here. Linguistic policies have not helped much either to retain their own or even less to attract excellence from other territories. From Vox we establish a dividing line between Basque and the implementation of linguistic policies by the institutions. On the part of nationalism there has been a constant attempt to eliminate this distinction in order to try to present as an enemy of the Basque woman who manifests his disconformity with his linguistic policies, something that is not at all true. Last Sunday, during an interview, Councillor Zupiria said that language requirements will not be hardened any more. And you may be right because there is no room for your hardening. In our view, this is about reducing and making language criteria more flexible in terms of access to public employment, adapting them to the socio-linguistic reality of each place and to the demand for citizenship. Let us not put obstacles in the selection processes of public employment that favor the flight of Basque citizens to other territories and detract the possibility of people from other parts of Spain choosing the Basque Country as the first option to develop their life projects. Finally, I will refer to what we have referred to in our motion for a resolution as the Return Plan. It could be called Return Plan 2022-2025. Something they like very much in the Basque Government, the plans. They could take it as one more plan. What would the Return Plan be? Well, during the four decades of terrorism there were tens of thousands of Basques who had to leave the Basque Country because of the threat of ETA and the suffocating pressure of compulsory nationalism. Thousands of Basques who were forced, because of fear and fear of losing their lives, to pack and to emigrate to other parts of the national territory. Thousands of families saw that from night to morning, for reasons beyond their control, they had to leave everything built in their homeland and go forced into other parts of the country. Thousands of Basques who had to modify their vital projects by starting a new life away from their homes. Broken families, groups of fragmented friends or business closures were some of the consequences of those years. It is clear, therefore, that Basque institutions have an outstanding debt to all those who had to leave the Basque Country because of terrorism. It is likely that, due to the time that has elapsed, it will be difficult to draw up a Return Plan and that it may not have a large demographic impact. But, in our view, this is a matter that goes beyond demography. Even if only one family could benefit from this plan, with only one family that could do so and return to their land, the effort would have been worth it. It would also be a measure with a great burden of symbolism and emotion. We are convinced that the PNV will not support the initiative. And he won't do it out of conviction. He is more concerned about the rapprochement of ETA prisoners than about the return of expats by the band. They have been much more sensitive to the repatriation of the ages than to the repatriation of their exiles. They have an opportunity here today to try to settle a historical debt, which has also had demographic connotations, there is no doubt, and, why not say, electoral ones as well. I don't think they should let it go. I'm closing up. We have tried to provide our diagnosis, our vision and our possible solutions to the demographic problem we have in the Basque Country. We are not alien to the reality of our environment, but, regrettably, we are leading the worst indicators in this area. The Basque Country is no longer an attractive place full of opportunities that many people chose as the first option to develop their vital project in the past. In this territory every day it is more difficult to reach the American dream that we have seen so many times named in the movies. I dream sometimes turned into a nightmare for many of our young people who are forced to emigrate for lack of opportunities. In addition to the Basques for the World program, we could reproduce an even denser one, with more content and protagonists, from Basques for Spain or even Basques for Madrid. Many Basques out of our community, unfortunately. As Zedarriak points out, to regain the demographic pulse, we must regain economic leadership lost as a territory. Therefore, all I tell you is that we must work urgently to make the demographic challenge a past nightmare because, in addition, we are going to our future in this. So, I do tell everyone that we should work on this. I suppose some of our proposals supported her. I hope so. But, well, we'll see you later in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u30	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, good afternoon. I think it's an important day. Again we discuss a serious subject in this legislature. We discussed this subject in the previous legislation. And the president seems to mention... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... We discuss this legislation. We discussed the matter in the preceding law, and it appears, as the President has mentioned, that the proposals which are to be tried at least today will enter the strategy which will be made. I think that's good news, and then we'll see how all these proposals go. I think it is an important day to hold this full monograph, and let us hope that the proposals that have been adopted will finally enrich the final text of the strategy for the 2030 demographic challenge of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I do want to thank the government, the people who have been in the government, the parliamentarians with whom I have had the opportunity to negotiate intensively, specifically Mr Díez, also Mrs Sánchez. We have not come to everything we wanted to achieve, but I believe that we have contributed and that there has been receptivity on the part of the Government in approving some of our proposals. I do want to say that I would have liked this Government to have had more ambition, not only in announcing its proposals, but also in accepting some of the proposals of this group, of the People's Party-Citizens, which we thought were relevant. However, that said, I also believe that there have been positive additions, and I would therefore like to thank the willingness of the groups supporting the Government and the Government itself to negotiate. As I have already focused on the most important proposals this morning, I am going to focus on some of them by adding something else, but I will also point out those on which I have not had the opportunity to speak this morning. We, apart from the strategy for the demographic challenge, do believe it is important that this opportunity should have been used to draft a bill that would be referred to the House. And, in that regard, we have put forward a specific motion for a resolution. There is another proposal to which you have not referred this morning, but which I do want to do this this afternoon, which, in line with the initiatives we have already put forward in this House, we propose that the Government draw up a maternity support bill that includes measures to support motherhood, especially pregnant women who are in a difficult situation and who want to continue with their pregnancy. For us it was also important to eliminate the standardized income criterion in aid; we believe that since this criterion was established in aid, Basque families have lost purchasing power. That is how they have transferred it to us and we have wanted to pick it up in a concrete proposal. I have referred extensively to the morning tax check of 1,250 euros, independently linked to the declaration of the IRPF, regardless of the result thereof, for each descendant under 18 years of age who can live with the taxpayer. I believe that we could be ambitious in this particular area, and above all taking into account the data available to us, which is the remnant of the Basque Government that exceeds EUR 1.5 billion. And, above all, taking into account a data that is very significant and that we have to put it on the table when Basque families are having a bad time, when we have a problem with births, when we have a problem with the aging of the population, when it is also necessary to provide more socio-health resources to care for elderly people dependent and of great dependence, chronic and with pluripathologies. And, in that sense, I do not think we can look any further when we put these figures on the table, the remnants themselves of the Basque Government, such as the increase in the collection by the outside institutions, by 20% in the first quarter of this year, compared to the first quarter of the previous year. I believe that there is scope and I think that we had to make an effort, and the competent institutions, in this case of the outlaws, but also the Basque Government, in what it is for it, especially the outlaws in the tax field, to carry out a tax reduction; and especially to take into account all these deductions in relation to the IRPF, linked both to descendants and ascendants, where we also propose to double the deduction in the IRPF. As well as increasing, by at least 20%, the deductions by degree of dependency or disability and by the need for assistance to a third person. Then we were talking this morning too, but, well, I am going to repeat this, even if it is very accurately, the possibility of extending the age for the recruitment of working persons for the care of descendants, which is currently at (...) years old, to pass to 14 years old, and with retroactive effects to course 2021-2022. On the other hand, with regard to our proposal for the gratuity of the first cycle of child education, we have signed a transaction with the Government that reflects part of our proposal. In that regard, we believe that the text proposed is also in line with our initial proposal. But also in the field of education we believe that it would be appropriate to increase aid for catering, transport or other complementary services, as well as we believe that it can be addressed what has to do with the gratuitousness of textbooks and other educational materials for the whole student. This has not been accepted, but we obviously maintain it and believe that it is an important issue. How to adapt the school schedule and schedule to the reality of families, we believe that here too efforts can be made so that there can really be a real and effective reconciliation of personal, work and family life. We were also talking, and we talked about, in our proposals to approve support programmes for university graduate students and vocational training that combine work and education, with particular regard to cases where dependent persons exist in their family unit. In order also to be able to promote the reconciliation of their studies and care... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... in their family unit, in order also to be able to promote the reconciliation of their studies and care. Individualized attention to students to facilitate adaptation to the education system, and also to the new demographic reality and presence of the growing immigrant population also in the centres, which also deserves attention from public institutions. In the rural area, I think it is also one of the issues that we have stopped this morning, the phenomenon of depopulation, said the lehendakari that perhaps in other autonomous communities because this phenomenon is more intense, it is more worrying, but we believe that here too there is a deficit of services in some municipalities of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, I know more about the territory of Álava, but there are many small municipalities where depopulation is directly linked to the lack of services. And in this regard, we believe that we must combat depopulation, analyse its causes, enhance the social economy, employment opportunities, provide similar services to the extent possible, obviously, to urban areas, and also convey a positive image of them. We believe that you can also enhance the productive tissue to (?) through economic activities to our municipalities, and in this sense, we do propose bonuses in the company tax with the application of a rate of 10% for companies with permanent work centers, and that they have their tax and social headquarters in such municipalities. We also propose to promote co-responsibility, and within the framework of collective bargaining itself, special attention and consideration for large families. In the end, the large families are the ones who are bringing children to this society, and we believe that society, the public authorities, and society in some way too, because we have to be generous and return that effort to the large families as well. Of course, also a look at single-parent families, and all those families that are already many and increasingly dependent on them. We also felt it appropriate to introduce a provision for assisted reproduction treatments for women with fertility problems, which may result from a pathology, provided that there is no medical contradiction. And also carry out awareness-raising and information campaigns that encourage the donations needed for such treatments. Another of the issues that we have also raised, and which has to do with proposals that we have brought to this Parliament over all these years, is that of strengthening, strengthening early care, and guaranteeing all Basque people and families with descendants with developmental disorders or at risk of suffering from them, access to early care and care resources, facilitating their personal autonomy and social inclusion, and, of course, conciliation as well. On the other hand, in this one we have not had... and what we have tried, Mr Díez, until well into the night last night, but we have not reached an agreement on the proposal to strengthen the programmes of in-depth aid for the comprehensive rehabilitation and improvement of the habitability and accessibility of housing. For us, this is an important issue, and in that regard, we maintain our proposal as it stands. We also believe that, in this respect, we have reached an agreement with the Government, with the parties that support the Government, to launch a programme, Euskadi Silver, aimed at people over 50 years of age who promote active ageing from an economic, welfare, cultural and social perspective. There is also a compromise in this proposed initiative, and also, well, I am grateful that, in the end, we have echoed the proposal we have put forward. The theme of loneliness. The issue of the loneliness of the elderly is also an issue to be focused on, on which we must focus, and above all, on unintended loneliness, with programmes aimed at the prevention and care of the loneliness of our elders. Promote and promote intergenerational relations, in particular between young and old, as a means of interaction that fosters cooperation and mutual support. We believe that it is also important, and in this regard we also call on the different administrations to promote and promote such programmes and measures. And I'm not going to stop long, but I did because I said it this morning. But I believe that the social and health area, social and health care, would also deserve special attention. It is true that some benefits are competences under the decree on the portfolio of outlaws, but I believe that this Government, and I think it is also an outstanding subject, would have to make a greater effort with regard to the socio-health area: define competences, define resources and also increase the amount that has to do with the model of health financing of the socio-health resources that care for people with dependency and/or disability or mental illness. The issue of care also seems important to us, considering that it is a feminized sector, and above all, we must try to dignify everything that has to do with care, caring people. And in that regard, we have also put forward proposals, and in some of them we have also reached agreements. With regard to the Youth Employment Shock Plan, it was an important issue for us, because in the end when we are talking about a life project, we are talking about young people having opportunities, and what better opportunity for young people than giving them jobs, quality jobs, and dealing with precarious situations and unemployment situations. And in that regard, we believe that a Youth Employment Shock Plan is urgently needed. And here too, well, because the groups supporting the Government have echoed our proposal and signed a compromise. Finally, I am going to focus on issues that have to do with retaining and capturing talent. We think this is a matter... I said that this morning, and I believe that this is an issue that must be placed as an absolute priority of this Government, which is the issue of young people. There's nothing more to see... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... and I believe that this is an issue that must be placed as an absolute priority of this Government, which is the issue of young people. There is nothing more to see than the bus stations of the three capitals as they are on Sundays, with all the young people leaving. And the young people are going to work outside, they're not staying here. I think it's very good that everyone from their freedom can choose where they work, where they develop their life project. But what I do think is a little sad is that there are young people who want to stay in the Basque Country, in their land, and they cannot do it for lack of opportunities. And finally we do want, which was also important, to take advantage of or to include, in the programme, certain issues, concrete measures also to promote conciliation aimed at our productive fabric. In short, we believe that we have put forward multiple proposals in different areas that have to do with addressing the demographic challenge. Many of them I recognize ambitious for what we have on the table today, but we believe that we have to have some breaking proposals and in line with the countries in which we often look, and if we look at ourselves in many countries, we have to look at everything, don't we? And if in birth policies, in youth support policies, in employment support policies we have models in our environment that are working, because obviously those models have to be moved, we have to adapt, but I think it is an opportunity. Well, these are the proposals. Let us hope that many of them will be happy and that they will vote in favour. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u32	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Mrs. Podemus-IU, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u33	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you. Good evening, President, chief physician. "We lived, as usual, ignoring everything. To ignore is not the same as to ignore, we have to work for it." This sentence is a quote from The Servant's Story, and I'm going to be allowed to bring it up, because I think you can't explain better the real challenge ahead than with this sentence. Goizean zehar azaldu dugu zergatik ekarri den Legebiltzar honorara errorka demografikoa irteera posizizio battik. Eta batara edo beasta, Ganbera honetako talde guztiek onartzen dugu datozen urteetan honaino ekarri gaituzten poliikak system finkatzen ari say it. Heinera, herritarrentzako oinarrizko eskubideak bermatzen dituzten systemen eraldaketan pentsatzera behartzen gaituzte. We are talking about the attention that affects the education system, with the numbers of school segregation that no one can or should ignore, in a context of a fall of birth. And therefore, also of the enrolments, that forces to open the debate of how we will recover the balance between the demand and the school supply and if we will do it in favor of the public school so that we do not see closed or languished centers. Or, on the contrary, we will encourage its weakening in favour of private centres. On the other hand, we have the same in the health system. Pandemic bath lehen, herritarek uste duzuen Osakidetza gure osasuna modu goresgarria babesten eta artatzen zuela, éta hori eztabaidaezina zen. Orina, covideren olatuek aura egin ahala, Osakidetzaren egora boxing borrokalari beat antzekoa da: lurrera ez erortzeko kolpea al bezala eusten saiatzen dena. Osasun systemren eta bettako profesionalek lan egiten duten moduaren deskribapena hori izazi. Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Gaixotzen Denok was able to set up a desk in his office. Izan ere, borroka egoera bat deskribatu of the age erakusten digu habitua, akituta eta itota dagoela, egin duen ahalegin guztia egin eta gero baestuta, zainduuta éta erekonozituta egon beharko lukeenean. Instead, we have manifestations of the primary care staff demanding solutions to a structural situation. And this is happening even in a year in which Osakidetza has a higher budget than in previous years, and we continue with primary care that does not have enough staff and networks such as mental health or specialties, such as pediatrics, strongly weakened. In addition to this, the already normalized crisis or collapse of the social services system is added. Kolapso hours normalized Egyptian da. Izan ere, tamalez, eta statuko beast leku batzuetan gertazzen den bezala, laugarren zutabeak; hau da, ongizais statuak ez du inoiz beast system batzuen hedapena izan, hala nola, osasunak edo hezkuntzak izan dutena. Oraindik was used to say unibertsalak; it is said guztiok eskura izan beharko genituzkeen zerbitzuak. The fact that the fourth pillar is the least developed is not by chance, because it is the most linked to feminized, unrecognized, least remunerated and under precarious working conditions. And it is a consequence of all the obstacles that continue to be put at the forefront of feminist policies, of the children's agenda, of a transformative social agenda. They are obstacles to making real policies for universal access to decent care, for the protection of families, children, youth, the elderly and from a dignity and rights perspective. For this it is essential to have care employment scholarships.... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... perspective of dignity and approach to rights. For this it is essential to have job scholarships, professional care. We have a historic debt to the care sector, and it is clear that their social recognition and effective distribution are still far off. It is a step forward that is being discussed. The fact that the professional experience and skills of those engaged in it are accredited makes it possible to provide some form of protection to thousands of women who are in the most precarious situation. Because following the same path that we have so far done nothing, we know what it leads us to: that women have three times as many stress-related diseases as men; that policies continue to grow, racist, capable, (...), and that prevent the rights of all and all from being universal. Instead of taking on the demographic challenge, the demographic challenge is a challenge linked to the inability of the system to ensure the reproduction of life. We ended up putting pressure and focus on women's capacity for reproduction. And that is always accompanied by a loss of sexual and reproductive rights to make decisions about us and our bodies. To the widespread disenchantment with politics as an engine of change, and disaffection, leads us to the disenchantment and rupture of community and social ties, which then only situations like a global pandemic rebuild again. My parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, would like to leave this plenary today with renewed votes for the protection of children, young people, the elderly and families. Because as my partner Miren Gorrotxategi said this morning, we want all families to enjoy all rights. In the previous full monograph, we said that there was a need to broaden the focus on the concept of family. To understand it as that group of people who are being life jackets, in a socio-economic model that generates precariousness, inequality, injustice, and that what they are being is bound by the absence of public policies that support them enough. We have a problem in our society, which is called the infantilization of poverty; we have a problem that shows that young people cannot be emancipated; and we have a problem when pensions are still not enough. That is why we want to place here today the groups of this House, especially those who support the Government to make a common analysis of the problems experienced by these families - childhood, youth, the elderly - from that broad and feminized perspective, to build among all, therefore, a lifeguard that is not just families, that is, safe spaces. That is why we bring to this plenary some ideas that we consider could change both in the short and long term the root situation. If we do not make clear, measurable, ambitious commitments, we will remain exactly where we are. And ignoring him also takes his job. So I will quickly highlight to you the measures that for my parliamentary group are essential for the protection and promotion of children's rights, for youth and for families. As far as child protection is concerned, our bet is for a universal child-rearing benefit. We propose universal child rearing aid through refundable tax deductions on income tax. Aid compatible with benefits such as GIR or as a minimum living income, which will replace the current direct aid system managed by the Basque Government, by improving and expanding it. And here we can only thank the work of organizations such as Save the Children, Unicef or the Children's Platform, which are driving it at the state level. And we ask the Basque Government and the groups that support it, that if they really consider that it is necessary to reconfigure the model of support per dependent child and increase its quantity, think of this plenary as an opportunity for an in-depth reform of the present system of benefits. Because we already know what the situation is, that public support is far from covering the cost of raising, and that the most affected are vulnerable families. Let us then push forward this measure which we propose is truly universal, which guarantees higher amounts, which are less willing to cut and are easier to manage. The tax reform proposed by these organizations benefits all families with children, regardless of their composition or income level. And this support for upbringing would become a right. Just as we have public health, public education, we need a public system that establishes universal childcare, and that ensures that having a child does not imply an increase in the risk of poverty. And this would be a first step towards ensuring a minimum of resources for all families. In addition, we propose to incorporate a strategic line on Children's Policy into the Euskadi Next programme. We have already defended it in a GNP at this very plenary session, and we are defending it again. As you can see, we move on the side, in favor of childhood. And it is the real political will of the Government that has to clarify whether all plans, pacts and strategies are really designed from the perspective of children. Because we have not seen a single project in the Euskadi Next projects that have as centrality the protection of children. We also proposed to make the Basque strategy against violence against children and adolescents mandatory and binding, or to promote a methodological tool, made together with the Ararteko, to ensure that the best interests of children are in the procedures of all administrations; and to prevent them from returning to situations such as those we live in in the pandemic, where adult-centric policies are made. We also believe that it is time to enhance the reception of younger children, ensure adequate residential places; strengthen support from psychosocial teams; and, above all, a common protocol is needed for the prevention and detection of child sexual abuse. And do not leave questions like these for the drafting of the Children's Act, which is already more than a year behind what was announced at the beginning of the legislature. Because there are areas that need deployment... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... for the drafting of the Children's Law, which is already more than a year late than what was announced at the beginning of the legislature. Because there are areas that need urgent deployments now. We remember, or we remind this Government and this House that we are pushing forward strategies, programmes, new regulatory frameworks without real political will or real resources to land these wonderful documents because it is a wet paper. We also need policies that involve support for families. And among the measures we proposed are, and we have reached an agreement, a measure to move forward on paternity and maternity leave. Although this will really serve to implement the recommendation of the World Health Organization to protect breastfeeding, we have reached an agreement in that regard. But in addition, we propose that these permits be extended to 18 weeks in the private sphere. But in addition, we wanted to go further and we wanted to propose that it should be extended to 20 weeks, paid at 100%. And also that they are recognized as a right for all workers. We have also managed in our negotiations to promote a framework of our own for single-maritime families, because it is important that legislation be developed to define the concept of single-maritime and single-parenthood, and that the principles, rights, services and benefits of support for these families be established. An initiative that we were trying to support at the state level is going to be left out of the family law that is being worked on. On the other hand, we need real investment in youth and housing, so we were talking about the emancipation network, creating the effective return plan or social inclusion programmes. We talked about housing in our proposals, the deployment of the housing law, regulating the private rental market, thus guaranteeing access to housing for everyone. We need investment and policies that work to ensure the universal protection of human rights. And in this we had a huge battery of proposals, such as support for the popular legislative initiative of regularization of immigrants: to accompany immigrants in the bureaucratic procedures, to give them access to the most basic, from the standard to the housing. A pilot plan for the unconditional basic income discussed here, or the current benefits of the Basque income guarantee system, by which telephones or computer devices can be purchased to ensure that the entire population in a situation of social exclusion has a device to relate to the Administration. We also proposed the inclusion of residences, a progressive system for the inclusion of residences in the public service. Or allocate, make a greater budget effort in equality policies. This is what we see in the law, but I believe that in this strategy we had to be ambitious and think that in the run-up to 2030 we would have to raise that budget floor. All families with minors in their care will be left out to ensure free euskera learning to help them in communication skills related to their life and work. As for health, for us it was essential to adopt our own regulatory framework on sexual and reproductive rights, but this does not seem to come out at the moment. As well as the reinforcement we also proposed of mental health services for children and young people. But we do point out that today we will also be talking about guaranteeing access to both assisted reproduction and voluntary termination of pregnancy in the public system. He's been out several times this morning, and we brought him back. Because this is going to come out today. And we talk about work in our proposals, because we can't talk about demographic challenge without talking about work. If we look at the social causes that cause people not to be encouraged to have sons or daughters, we have to warn about the situation of vital uncertainty in which many people in this country find themselves, and I believe that those who have preceded me have also mentioned it very clearly. That is why I wanted to put and highlight one of our proposals today, which is going to come forward, which is to make a public employment creation plan, for which the Government will have to coordinate with local and outside administrations in order to increase investment in policies that guarantee decent working conditions and guaranteed public employment. And we believe that administrations have to be a protagonist, they have to intervene to guarantee work for all citizens. And you can't stay in self-congratulation and aspire to a 10% unemployment threshold as if that were an achievement. In that regard, the resolution to be adopted today can improve the lives of many people by giving them vital certainty. We should get out of this plenary today with agreements. That, according to our discussions and negotiations, they seemed to produce a good result both qualitative and quantitative. But, well, at the last moment we have also seen how some of them were being diverted, and we cannot reach some compromises because the parties supporting the government have preferred other partners. We wanted to get out of here with shared resolutions so that families and all the people who live and make countries every day feel that the policies that we drive here in this House serve to solve their problems, that they serve to give them facilities, that they feel close to us. And do not feel that at the time of truth it is in solitude where you feel the passage and the weight of crises. We want families to stop assuming everything the state is missing from. We want social reproduction and the sustainability of life to cease to be a daily struggle. That is why we are working from my parliamentary group in this Parliament and in the institutions where we are. For us, as for the proposing group, we have seen in this debate a relevant and necessary occasion to include proposals that we have been working on since we are in this Parliament. I'm aware that in the previous one... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... seen in this debate as a relevant and necessary occasion to include proposals that we have been working on since we are in this Parliament. I know that the previous monograph worked in this direction, had good synergies between the groups, and especially between the opposition groups. We do not want to wait for another pandemic to transform our lives, and we do not want, as I said at the beginning, to continue to ignore it, because it requires a blindfold in our eyes that already weighs. The real challenge ahead is not the demographic challenge, but the challenge of demonstrating that the policies we do have a real impact on the lives and daily needs of all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Next up, the Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u35	Thank you, President. I believe that after all the work that has been done and after the various speeches that the various parliamentary groups have defended here today in this plenary, it is time for us all to come together. We have worked, reached agreements and approved many of the proposals from the different groups, and we have also reached 11 transactions. I believe that an important effort has been made to achieve that consensus. And as I said in my first speech, we gave great value to the work that today we had to do the different groups. I believe that all those agreements that we have managed to reach both in the directly accepted proposals and in the compromises... Time seems to me to be wrong, president, but, well, I'm still here. [[Barres]] Suddenly I ran out of time. But come on, what... What I was saying, that I believe it has been the result of that work, of that effort, and that it is very positive. And, as we have also pointed out, the important thing is that all these agreements will be included in the Basque demographic challenge strategy that we will have completed by June of this year. And the resolutions or proposals where we have not been able to reach agreement, sometimes it was because they are proposals that are going to be dealt with within laws that are going to enter or have just entered this Parliament, such as the draft reform of income guarantee, or that are being processed in the General Courts, that we considered that they did not have much room for what this demographic challenge debate was. Then there were other proposals for tax reform or tax deductions that we did not consider appropriate, either because they were presented without an estimate of the high cost that could entail them. On the other hand, I believe that we have tabled 39 proposals, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Of course, our 39 proposals will be adopted in this plenary. But within those 39, 11 have also been traded with the different groups. We have made the same effort with the vast majority of the groups in this House. We have managed to reach broader agreements with the People's Group; 17 proposals have been accepted and six compromises agreed. And I was thinking of going deep into the exposure of the different transactions, but I think that after the intervention of the different groups, where each of them has been referring to all of them, because I am not going to go into an in-depth explanation of all of them. Yes, of course, to state that with the Elkarrekin Group We can where we have initially accepted nine of their proposals and we have reached at first six transactions. And once they were already signed, Mrs González, you said here "we have preferred one parliamentary group to others". No, no, You know very well that in three of them we have reached agreements with you too, and once signed you have said, no, no, no, that now we do not want to sign them. So don't say we've chosen or had a preference. No, no, Yeah, yeah, yeah. Man, they're gonna tell me what we've been doing all day. No, no. You said yes and, in the end, you said no. So let me make it clear that there has been no preference here for any parliamentary group, but the intention has been to negotiate with absolutely everyone on equal terms. And besides, we had reached an agreement. But you're free. (...) you come to an agreement and before the end you have said no, no, of three we get out of the agreement and say no. Okay, but don't say what it's not, Mrs. González, here in the gallery, because that hasn't been the case. And with the Elkarrekin Group we have also made the same effort, but we have accepted nine amendments and have only managed to reach two compromise amendments. We, of course, intention and effort have been exactly the same with all, with all groups. With some of us we have managed to reach more... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ...of course the intention and effort has been exactly the same with all, with all groups. With some we have managed to reach broader agreements, with others we have failed to reach such a large number of agreements. But I believe that all these agreements, the important thing, as I have indicated, is that they are going to join that Basque strategy of demographic challenge. And all the groups, absolutely all of them, have had the opportunity to bring here today what we considered relevant. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u36	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u37	Thank you. Good afternoon again. Chief of Parliament, President, Mr. and Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Well, I followed Mme. Saez de Egilaz with great attention and interest, and I continued with great interest when she explained that the part of the Koruntha agrees with what she had said this morning. And I'm supposed to say that the members of my team agree with what I said this morning, but with the president... I agree with what the president said today. And I have to accept... I believe that there may also be agreement with what some of the members of other groups have expressed. And I am glad, though Mme. Saez de Egeila has not mentioned, that this morning she joins with the diagnosis I have published, or at least with a large part of the diagnosis. Because we talked about the cracks and cracks of generation this morning and we talked about how the rents are divided and... This is something we have here alluded to, and a very important part of the diagnosis. And I'll have his speech... It's true that the tone has been very different. But in his discourse I have discovered so many uneasinesses which I have set forth here this morning. But it is also true that this turn is thought up, or that the most common is said to be the proper proposition of every one's resolution, or... Yes, to explain the proposals here. And what happened? When the Basque People are assembled to have land, or to enter precise propositions, what we have seen to-day is another very theoretical frame, more than they have in definite propositions. On the other hand, the Government this morning has brought proposals, concrete proposals, which have also been proposed, studied, measures and as a result of having made a good diagnosis in advance. Measures submitted by the lehendakari. And that we understand - we have said it in the morning, but we say it again here - that they are ambitious, innovative measures and measures that we really believe that they can meet and serve the demographic challenge. And they are in line with what we have put forward through the motions for resolutions and with that idea that I explained this morning that they do not have to be concrete proposals, very very very overwhelming or very effective, but rather a proposal as a whole that they generate an ecosystem that facilitates people living better and therefore have greater freedom to decide where they want to live, how they want to live, how they want to face their motherhood, how they want to work, how they want to reconcile. And as I said, the first round of the afternoon is to introduce each one's proposals. And I won't read mine one by one, but I will quote. Our proposals, or a precise purpose, had been to oppose the demographic in a wide and many ways. Measures distributed in different groups. And the first of them is more generic, strategic, theoretical measures that set out frameworks that serve us. There is also a group in which motions for resolutions favouring the empowerment of young people are introduced. Others are grouped around the possibility of building family projects. There is also another block with specific measures for migration integration. There is also a block dealing with the full life of the elderly. And also another very important block with measures that we believe are fundamental to the upgrading of the rural environment. And finally, something that may not be usual, but there is also a block with measures for dissemination and awareness, something that we believe is a priority if we are to address one of the main challenges that our country is going to face in the coming years or decades. And I believe that these motions for resolutions, which we have been working on for several days between the groups, with many hours of negotiation, because in the end we have reached various agreements with all the groups, different agreements. And we believe that these are agreements that need to be put into practice. It's true, it's true that there could have been more agreements. But, well, there haven't been any because... for both reasons. And I'd like to give Mrs. Gonzalez a little thought, who has spoken... And honestly, I have to tell you, it hurt because... He said that we, the groups that support the Government, have prioritized certain groups in front of others. And you know that's not true. You know that because I talked to her. And because you know that even in some proposals where we had the option of agreeing both with the People's Party-Citizens, which is the group to which you referred, as with you, I have told you directly, is that we have prioritized agreeing with you. And so we have preferred certain groups that even three of the motions for resolutions that we are going to vote on with the People's Party have been negotiated with you and the text that we had agreed with the People's Party has been modified as a result of what you asked us to do. I therefore believe that the debate requires a certain seriousness, a certain seriousness. And if you have childishness or you have what you have... are cross vetoes or you have come orders not to know where, what we understand, what we understand, that what you cannot do in this rostrum is not to tell the truth and try to wear down certain groups. When our attitude, both Mrs Sánchez and mine and also that of the government people who have been helping, has been in everything... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...and try to wear down certain groups when our attitude, both that of Mrs Sánchez and mine, and also that of the people of the Government who have been helping, has at all times been to facilitate the agreement, to facilitate the agreement. And I was saying that we didn't come to any more agreement, because it wasn't possible. And it is certain that such monographics sometimes become at other meetings in general politics, because it is true that very different areas are involved; the health, the education, the social policy, the economy, the apartment, the job... Several other areas are touched. And it has happened in the plune of general policy, because what we thought has happened, hasn't it? Mrs. Saez de Egililaz explained: We're trying to transform it from top to bottom of the system. Well, that's what we thought, that the monograph today has finally been used for the confessional of the national models. And if you want to compare two models, (?) Ours, it's made clear what it was, we've explained it, I think we've explained it in detail. It is not a model of ours that was born to confront, it is a model that admits that it can be contrasted, not confrontational, but contrasted. But it is true that from today's plenary I personally, and I understand that my group is leaving, or leaving and leaving, with a feeling, is that there are two models, but there are not two models that are intended to be presented here by certain groups, it is not that there is a feminist model and one that is not, it is not that there is a model of the right and one of the left, it is not that there is a conservative and one progressive model, it is not that there is a liberal and one socialist, no, that is not in these two models. There is a model of two groups and a government that governs, makes proposals, and works to solve people's problems. And there is another model, which is true that it also makes proposals, but of course it makes proposals that are not quantified, that are not studied, that are not concrete, or that are concrete, but that are not so worked out and that are not quantified or valued as the cost they may have. For example, one of the measures you have proposed, direct aid, EUR 650 million a year. Therefore, we must have rigour. And there is the difference between the two models, and what I said before, the government model that works to solve people's problems, and the opposition model, that uses people's problems to try to wear down the government. But yet, I think, we ought to establish the agreements we have obtained, which is the end we have: Dealing the value, that's what we've accomplished. We know that this challenge before us will be possible only if we all put the best we have. All in this legislature, different groups, but also in society. Civil society, private public collaboration, generate synergies so that each one of us can provide the best we have, solve or try to solve one of the problems, one of the possibly most important challenges facing Basque society and European society in the future. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Díez. At this moment, we interrupt a little to organise the vote, okay? Ow! The second round is... Ostras! [[Barres]] Lidated... Is that so? I'm organising 200 votes, and very, very, very... Puff. Again, yes, in Saez de Egililla, please, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u39	Thank you, Chief. I have also listened to all the propositions here stated, and also to the political purposes proposed. And I believe that many things have remained in the Tintero, or many things have been agreed on, without being able to advance. And I believe that what we have intended to make clear in this discussion of today is that this demographic challenge has preceded so many and so many public policies, and that many political decisions must be made public, that this modification which this people require may be given institutionally. And in this sense it is also evident that EH Collect wants the welfare of men, and above all he wishes to be an active public policy in which they will be able to transform the lives of men in this sense. And in that regard, at least we believe that the approach or the provision or assistance for the mothers and parents of each child, of 200 euros per child that has been raised from this government from zero to three years, is interesting, and that we have been able to take that proposal from the government, but for us that proposal had to be much broader. Y, dede luego, teníamos una portentundand para de verdad hablar de la vida de la las niñas que van a vivir y van a habitare país de ceo a 18 años. And there was a chance that all these years could be guaranteed, in order to guarantee worthy lives every year. And our question is, whether it would be an opportunity to exaggerate this, in order to make a firmer survey, if for ten years or the next decade this is a proposition suitable for a demographic challenge or a demographic strategy. "Pias sí, creo quemos abittore un poco el marco de sleep possible congunas propuestas, se nos there quedado cortas, eso es una realidad." And in this sense, for example, this strategy of the demographic challenge is built for ten years, or for ten years, we believe that a definite question is missing. I mean, how can you say no to open a public discussion about tax reforms? Does anybody ever think there's going to be a reform of taxes to get to the mills we're going to have in this decade? And among them, for example, to reach the demographic challenge. We believe, for instance, that a proposition of this kind has been left behind, or this... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ... to reach the hinges. And among them, for example, to reach the demographic challenge. We believe, for instance, that a proposition of this kind has been left behind, or that it has not been possible for us to advance. We have, of course, proposed theoretical frames because we plan a pattern different from ourselves. We want to think about feminism, rethink, re-form and decide all our lives. And we think that the most beautiful challenge to the demographic, and especially the beauties that will have the power to transform themselves from the root, require the choice of a contrary example, and demand a theoretical dispute, and a public political debate in these terms. I think it was clear that the words of the Kortash have been spoken in the morning and the afternoon that I have repeated them myself. Our question is also to have until when we will wait to really pose innovative, ambitious, different, realistic things. Because the proposals we have made are realistic and you know it very well. Let's go a little slow. And as I mentioned before also of a song of Eurovision, here I will also tell you: a little bit slo mo, mo mo mo, you are going, but good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u40	Thank you, Mrs Saez de Egililaz. Missa-Vox? PP-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u41	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I'm going to focus on danger that I think is important and not on other issues than everyone there. Obviously we could have been more ambitious, but I think that good, because we have managed to introduce some issue into the proposals, through our proposals in this strategy. I think it is important that our proposal has been accepted for an annual review, an annual evaluation of the objectives, indicators of the strategy for the demographic challenge; that was not foreseen... this question. And I think that being able to evaluate the strategy on an annual basis, a strategy that is not short-term, because it is a positive thing, and that we certainly give it an important value. We have also introduced, I suppose, that some will be disturbed, to promote private public collaboration as well, above all to meet the needs of the most vulnerable population, and to establish sufficient coverage, and to promote and achieve the cohesion and inclusion objectives of an advanced society. We have also succeeded in getting the groups supporting the Government to accept a proposal - and I will focus on it especially because I think it is important - which is to increase the age for the recruitment of workers for the care of minors from the present 3 years to the 14 years, with retroactive effects. In other words, this forecast is expected to reach the age of three, and now extends to the age of 14. I think it is an important proposal, and that is what we stress. Another of the issues that have been accepted from our proposals is to deepen the quality of teaching, and to promote the individualized care of students. And also take into account the immigrant reality, and the new demographic reality. We have also been accepted another proposal which has to do with promoting conciliation policies in the summer, and not in the teaching periods. I believe that this is something demanded by Basque families; and also convey values in the positive educational sphere. In the practice of English. I believe that this is something we have also raised through our fellow Member, Mr Gil, on these matters on numerous occasions, and I believe that this strategy of strengthening English is also important. We have also been accepted issues relating to large families, with special attention being paid to large families, single-parent families, and families with dependents. Also the topic that we talked about and mentioned to ensure the treatment of assisted reproduction to people with fertility problems resulting from a pathology, provided that there is no medical contradiction. Another issue that has to do with the prevention of loneliness, developing programmes and promoting healthy ageing. We have also been accepted that proposal, as it was to be drafted. Another proposal to promote programmes and actions to promote intergenerational relations, particularly between young people and older people. It was an issue that is also important when we talk about demographic challenge. It also has everything to do with strengthening care for older people in vulnerable situations, in their immediate surroundings or in their own homes. Also the ability to promote innovative initiatives related to the care economy sector. It is also important to ensure the professionalism of quality care and jobs in this area. Also that has to do with a specific plan of retention of development and intelligent attraction of talent to the Basque Country. And I believe that this proposal that has been accepted as important, with the problem that I have tried to highlight through numerous interventions today in this House in relation to the problem that we have with the lack of talent, the flight of talent and the retention of talent. And finally, although I believe that the spokesmen of the groups supporting the Government will also do so, I will make a brief reference to the compromise amendments. We made a compromise on our original proposal, which referred to a shock plan and policies aimed at promoting quality and stable employment among young people. I believe that this proposal is also important, I have pointed out it in my many speeches as well. If there is no employment and young people do not have access to employment under quality conditions, it is difficult to talk about emancipation, opportunities and that they can undertake a life project. Another important transaction is the one that has to do with the educational field... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... hard to talk about emancipation, opportunities and that they can start a life project. Another important transaction is that of education, where the Basque Government is urged to adapt the supply and demand for public places in 0-3 children's education, and to achieve freeness in the 0-2 years stage by the end of 2023. I believe that as a universal and high-quality public service, this is an issue that we have also called for on numerous occasions and has also been welcomed by the groups that support the Government; ultimately, the Government. Proposals also deal with training, with specific training routes for young people, through specific policies for guidance, training and development. And also with all that has to do with the entrepreneurship, with the personalized accompaniment. Again a reference to retention and talent attraction programs. And, therefore, this is also an issue on which we have emphasized. In short, I would like once again to thank Mrs Sánchez, Mr Díez, for having already accepted any of the proposals. We would have liked to have accepted more, and especially those that had amounts and those that were silent. But I believe that the result of the negotiation, the intense discussions, our proposals and the transactions enriches the Strategy, the Strategy that will be adopted next July will be enriched. And we will also follow up on its implementation. And let it be for the benefit of the Basques, especially on a crucial issue, a structural problem that we have been dragging forward for a long time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u42	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Gonzalez andrea, Elkarrekin Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u43	I don't know who to start with. I'm going to start with Mrs. Garrido, who's the one who's most lost right now. Well, I'll start with Mrs. Sanchez then. If you're not alert, you don't have a replica. Mrs. Sánchez, they weren't signed, they weren't signed. I'm the one who signed them. And you said here they were signed and they weren't signed. We are also free to sign or not to sign certain transactions. Mr. Diez, you accuse me of childishness. I mean, I think none of the people who know me from this House can make me childish. And what's more, I get the smile on my face when I remember the conversation that you and I have had these days, the time we've been talking about boomers and millennials. And... well, childishness, no. In this case, I think there has been some occultism, because I didn't know, we didn't know, at no time that we were fucking three. And that's the theme we've come out of. And why, Mrs. Garrido? That you've come kindly to ask me. These are three measures in which my group has worked very hard. What has to do with the Haurreskolas is practically as collected in the educational pact. When a formation devotes so much time to negotiating... Or the Youth Act, which is another measure in which we are not going to have sex. We have devoted so much time, so much love, so much effort, and we see that your group are laws, covenants in which you have not entered, that you have not supported. Well, we can't be, we can't be in that same firm, which doesn't mean we don't like it or we're going to vote against it. But we're not in the transaction. However... Ah, I also had something else to tell you, that they don't give me orders. I don't know, just like in other parties it is customary for orders to be given about what to do or what not to do, but of course, in ours we make the decisions together. And that patriarchal court, many times that comes from parties to use, for no, it is not our case, although many times it may also seem that we are going free and not so. But I want to make the most of what has been agreed. And I want to add value, because it is true that a few resolutions that we were presenting are going to come out. And I do want to highlight it, because it is true that when we get to a full monograph, we are all overtired today, we have talked a lot, we have seen many amendments. I want to thank Mr. Díaz. Also to the Government team with which we had the opportunity to contrast the demographic challenge strategy that is under way. And I would also like to thank Euskal Herria Bildu for bringing this relevant debate, Mrs Ortega, Mrs Etxebarrieta and Mrs Kortajarena. Also for what we have talked about these points, these proposals, and because, just as there was attunation in that previous monograph, I believe that there is also in this one. Mrs. Sanchez. And above all, especially to Mr. Díaz, who is with whom I have spent most of my time. So, on the one hand, I know that we are reaching agreements that will improve the demographic challenge strategy. I'm sorry I couldn't have fucked those, but I know they're gonna be there, they're gonna be there, and we're gonna be there to follow up and see what they get. And, just like that, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mrs Sánchez, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u45	Well, very briefly. I think we must congratulate ourselves, because we had a very important, very important debate for our citizens, for our autonomous community, for our country and for Europe. And I think we've spent some time today making proposals and talking about the problem in the... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ...and for Europe. And I think we have spent some time today making proposals and talking about the problem of the demographic challenge. And we have agreed many things, many things that will serve. And that's really important. And that's what I'm staying with. Because we've done our homework and I think the result of what's coming out of here today is good. And now I'm going to enter a little bit into the last and final replica of my interventions here today. Mrs González, of course, I know you didn't sign them, but you agreed, you were agreed. I mean, he went down before he signed and before he checked in, I know. But, of course, they would not be so far away and would agree when they had said yes to sign it. Suddenly I don't know what happened to them that they said, "Oh, no, we got off at three." Besides, three that had nothing to do with... They were completely different subjects. But suddenly they decided that "Oh, like they were going with the People's Party, suddenly they didn't sign them." No one has given preference to one parliamentary group or another. No, no, Of course you're free to do it. And they did. But, fortunately, those amendments will remain there because we have signed them with the Group of the European People's Party. I hope that at least, as they agreed, they will sign in favour of them when the time comes for the vote. And, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, don't worry, that the groups we support the government, the Basque Nationalist group and the Popular group, we are ready. [[Barres]] And, of course, we are going to get started and we are going to do our homework to get policies out that will benefit the demographic challenge. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u46	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u47	Thank you again, Mrs. President. First of all, I have to say that I'm not a person in the music world, I'm not a Eurovisive fan. And do not expect from me any lyrics of any song, either Eurovisive or pre-Eurovisive. Anyway, Ms. Saez de Egililaz, I don't think it's our team or government that's been slow or quiet in this town. Eta, alde battik beast, really... You say they've taken the government out. Do you really believe that a measure of such a stalemate, of such a budgetary envelope, which requires a study, which requires a contrast, which requires the negotiation even of the government's own departments, really believes that the government comes here, from one day to the next, because I have you at a press conference on Friday...? I don't think so, I don't think so. Baina jarraitu dezakezue, nahi baldin baduzue, hori pentsatzen. Mrs Gonzalez, you were telling me that we didn't have the agreements signed. But you know, as I do, that we had negotiated them. But, I insist on what I said before, we had not only negotiated them, we had changed the wording we had agreed with the People's Party because you had asked us to change the wording. You mentioned, you mentioned, you mentioned, the Haurreskola motion for a resolution. He mentioned it. He says they didn't know we were negotiating with the two parties. In the Haurreskola negotiating proposal I specifically told him that we were changing the wording because the People's Party had asked us to change the wording and we believed that with that wording we could enter the three. So, I understand it wasn't a lie, it was a mistake. But I think it's fair to admit that I did. He's been talking about orders in the parties. I'm not going in. It is true that in the PNV we are very disciplined. But it is true that those who give orders in the party are the affiliates and affiliates in the assemblies. [[Words]] And I'd love to, to finish, to put the deal to value, the agreement that we've made to put into value. It has to be mentioned and it has to be underlined... Please. It has to be stated and it must be remarked that we have made a deal with all the groups. A lot bigger, maybe not with others. The intention of all the people who have been helping our team and the Socialist team and the government has always been to stand in the same position in front of all the groups, the attitude of agreement. And the wider the compact, the better for us as a team, the better for the government as a government, and the better for the Basques as a people. Eta bai bukatu nahi doubtes eskerrak ematen. Eta eskerrak eman nahi dizkiot Sánchez andreari. Thank you very much. I think it's been an intense job until late, at night as well and soon in the morning. But I think it's worth it. To Mrs. Garrido, for her predisposition to the deal. I think we have to recognize him, he's been predisposed to the deal. I must confess also to Madame Kortja's, and to those of the party who came with Mrs. Kortha's, Pazis and Erasti, who have been grateful to them for having shown them the honesty of agreement. Eta, bukatzeko, González andreari, despite what has happened at the last hour, I have to thank you. Indeed, we have had many conversations. I think they're pretty. More than interesting, beautiful. In which we have contrasted almost ways of life and which were closely related to the demographic challenge. And I have to thank you. It is true that I am pleased with the broad agreement that we have had. It is a sour taste because those three motions for resolutions we believe would have completed the map much better, and they also reflected reality. Because you really agree with what you say there because you have negotiated it and it has been drafted by your hand. So, the one they share. And I'm going with that sweet sour flavor because we can't complete that. But, frankly, I have to thank you for the will you have had for the agreement you have had, the effort you have made, the work you have done, as well as the rest of the speakers from the groups that have worked on this monographic plenary. Just like that. Thank you. And good evening.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Let's take a break, okay? Let's organise the vote. The meeting stopped at five-and-thirty. At six-seven o'clock in the evening the meeting began again. [[Start of tape 55.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u49	Good afternoon. We'll do it again. And now we're going to start the vote. We'll raise the vote. And we'll start with the media. Ready? Okay. [[End of tape 55]] [[Start of tape 56.]] ... And we'll start with the media. Ready? Okay. The first middle-way, the Eucabertians, the Sociists of Socia, the middle course of the year with the 45th of EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 1,6; the white ones; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u50	It's accepted. Number two, the third of the Eubertists, the 12th of the Collectors, and together with the 9th Podemos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 7; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u51	It's accepted. The third middle-way, the Eucan patriots, the Socialists with the 6th P.P. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u52	The third half-way is approved. Fourth-way, Eucobertians, Basque Socialists with the 23rd PP. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u53	The fourth half-way is approved. The fifth half-way, Eucobertarians, the 35th of the Basque Socialists, the 50th of P.P. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u54	The fifth half-way is approved. Sixth Avenue, Eubertarians, 29 Eukal Sozialists, PP, Together... Ciudadnos... PP-Ciudadnos 35. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u55	The sixth half-way is approved. Seventh-way, Eucobertians, Basque Socialists with Ciudadans and the 45th of P.P. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u56	The seventh transaction is approved. Eighth British, Eucobertians, Eukal Sociialists 16. PP and Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u57	The eighth half-way is approved. Halfway north, Eucobertarians, the 17th of the Basque Socialists together with the 2nd Podemos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 1,6; the white ones; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u58	The ninth transaction is accepted. Tenth, Eucobertarians, the 19th of the Basque Socialists, the 1st middle course made together with Podemos 14. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 7; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u59	The 10-way one is approved. If we vote in the middle, now in teams, we vote for the team resolutions. We'll vote for the resolutions of the EH team first. There must be different numbers. The first set, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 17, 20, 21, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44. We'll vote for the resolution. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 26; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u60	These resolutions have remained unaccepted. Second set, 4, 7, 13 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 26; the contrary, 42; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u61	These resolutions were not accepted. Another group, 19, 22, 23, 24 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 1,6; the white ones; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u62	The resolutions we've made were accepted. Another group of resolutions 26, 28, 35, and 36. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 7; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u63	They've been approved... [[End of tape 56]] [[Start of tape 57.]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 7; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u64	They're approved. Resolution 39. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 1,6; the white ones; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u65	Resolution 39 is approved. We're going to vote next to Mistosa-Vox's proposals. First set: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 15, 17. 18. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u66	The resolutions we made were not accepted. Set 2: Two, eight, nine, 14, 16. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; supporters 1, contrary, 73; abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u67	They weren't allowed. And set three: 10:11. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1, contrary, 67; Abstations, 6; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u68	The resolutions we made were not accepted. The resolutions of the Basque Team, the popular-Ciudadans, are agreed on. First set: One, two, five, 15, 16, 25, 33, 34, 40, 41, 48. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 61; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u69	Those weren't accepted. Group 2: 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 18, 22, 32, 38, 39, and 49. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 7; contraries, 41; Abstations 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u70	They weren't allowed. Resolution three. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u71	It's unanimously approved by the resolution number three. Set 4: Resolution four and 21. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of it, 48; the contrary, 26; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u72	They're approved. Resolution four and 21. Other set: 8, 17, 20 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 47; the abstainments, 20; white, 0.1,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u73	They weren't allowed. 12. Draft. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 68; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 6; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u74	The resolution 12 is approved. Other set: 26, 28, 29, 36, 42, and 43 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of it, 48; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u75	The resolutions mentioned have been accepted. Other set: 19, 37, 44, 46 and 47 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 20; the bonus, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u76	The resolutions mentioned have been accepted. Other set: Resolution 24. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 6; contraries, 41; Abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u77	Not accepted. 30 solutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u78	Not accepted. Resolution 31. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 48; counters, 6; Abstations, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u79	... [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]] ... After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the country, 48; contrary to 6; Abstations, 20; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u80	So the resolution is made 31. Resolution 27. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the east, 48; contrary to 0; Abstations 26; white, 0.1 Resolution 27 has been approved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u81	Together, we'll vote for the agreements of the Podemos left of the Antice Group. 1st set: 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 12, 15, 16, 20, 21, 27, 28, 30, 32, 34, 40, 46 and 48. We pulled him out in another group. [00:01:27-00:01:36] Mulz will vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 26; opponents 48; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u82	The resolutions we made were not accepted. 2nd set: 5, 26 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 26; the opponents are 42; the charges are six, the white ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u83	They weren't allowed. Set 3: 6, 13, 17, 18, 23, 25, 41, 44. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the opposites 48; the abstainations, 20; the white ones, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u84	They weren't allowed. Set 4: 19, 47 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opponents 7; the charges are 20; the white ones are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u85	These resolutions have been accepted. Set 5: 22nd Resolution. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the opposites 42; the abstations, 26; the white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u86	He hasn't accepted 22. The resolution. Set 6: 29 and 35 solutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 26; the opponents are 42; the charges are six, the white ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u87	The proposed resolutions were not allowed. Set 7: 31, 33, 36, 37, 42, and 43. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 67; the opposites 7; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u88	The resolutions mentioned have been accepted. Set 8: 38 After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites 1, 26; the white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u89	38 is approved. The resolution. Set 9: Resolution 39. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the opponents 68; the abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u90	The resolution wasn't accepted 39. Set 10: Resolution 44. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the opposites 48; the abstainations, 20; the white ones, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u91	The resolution was not accepted. 44. Set 11: Resolution 11. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 26; opponents 48; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u92	The resolution was not accepted. 44. Set 12: Resolution 24. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 26; opponents 48; abstations, 0; white, 0.1 [[End of tape 58.]] [[LIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 26; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u93	Resolution 24 is not accepted. It's just middle-class, that's all. Okay. We're going to vote for the sub-mediary resolutions of Eubertists and Basque Socialists. Eubertarians and Basque Socialists. First group: 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34, and 37. 36, did I say wrong? 36th Okay? Okay. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of it, 48; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u94	The resolutions we've made were accepted. 2nd set: Resolutions 1, 2, 34. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites, 1, 26; the white ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u95	The resolutions we've made were accepted. Set 3: Resolutions 9 and 38. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrarys, 20; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u96	Order 9, 38 have been approved. Resolution 13. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 42; the opposites are 0; 10, 32; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u97	It's accepted 13th. Resolution. Resolution 15. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 62; the opposites, 0; Abstations, 12; white; 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u98	Fifteen is approved. Resolution. Other group: 18, 31 solutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 68; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 6; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u99	18, 31 solutions have been accepted. 23rd Resolution. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 1,6; the white ones; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u100	The resolution 23 has been accepted. Other set: Twenty, 21. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 61; contraries, 7; Abstations, 6; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u101	It's accepted. And last, resolution 22. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 7; the abstainations, 26; the white ones, and the white ones.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u102	The resolution 22 has been approved. And just, like, a whole... [[Berborsa]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I can't hear you, Laura.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u103	I know it's happened, but we've had a mistake, I want it to be on the record. In transaction 17 of the Basque Nationalist Party and 2 Elkarrekin We can our vote was affirmative. The transaction between the Basque Nationalist Party and Elkarrekin Podemos, 17 PNV, 2 Elkarrekin Podemos, the extension of the weeks...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u104	The 9th?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u105	Yeah. That's a yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u106	Your vote. Yeah, okay. Let him take it like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-18.u108	I finish the entire meeting because we've exhausted the list of subjects. The meeting ended at 7 p.m. and 13 p.m.
