ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I inform you that the three parliamentary members have inherited the vote. Since the seventh point in the subject list has been left for another purpose, and the 5th point in the subject list will be discussed in the sixth place, and point 6 in place 5. First point in theme list: "The judgment of the Institution, of the Governor, and of the Security Committee, made upon the project of the procedure of making general regulations. Discipline and final resolution. The government's turn, my friend, Mrs. Garagisa, is yours to introduce the word in action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u1	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. It will now cease to be the parliamentary course of the project for general regulations, after having accepted the Council of Government on the 23rd of March last year. It's only a year's career, and there's been an interesting exchange of views between the Basque and the legal teams around a law that is obviously essential to the administration, which regulates every phase of making a new rule or a new law. It is true, looking out, it does not seem to be a very attractive law. But it can't be denied that it's a crucial text to create rules. In fact, communications have called this law of law today what we have in hand. Anyway, before we get to the point, I'd like to thank you for the attitude of the legal teams in the process of treatment. Thanks to this co-worker, the text to give more speed and legal security to the procedure for the rules will be able to go on with a broad consent. We don't start from scratch on this subject, that's true too. The law now established was accepted in 2003 by the Basque parliament. At that time we were pioneers, because we had the instructions which were to prevail in the process of making general regulations, to serve as a law. On this score, in the process of time and application which had elapsed since it had been accepted, it would be advisable to make a new appeal. Apart from adapting the rule to changes and the new necessities of procedure, we had to adapt ourselves to the need of a better answer to the challenge to speed and transformation. Insomuch as they contain the values of good management, they promote respect for the principles of propriety. The following principles are as follows: necessity and efficiency; efficacy and proportionalness. It is of great importance to make general regulations, for the numerous rules produced by public intervention in all the worlds of society, and for the complex rules which affect all sorts of conditions and social relations. The requirements for transparency and evaluation of public authorities are increasing and increasingly affect all areas of government. It is therefore necessary to have a regulation that sets out the guidelines that must prevail in the process of drawing up general provisions, and regulates the procedures that make up each of its phases: preparation, initiation, instruction and approval. I do not intend to go into detail about the content of this bill, which will come out today with considerable support. I have already taken this into account by appearing before the relevant Commission. But I would like to dwell on some specific points. To begin with, I would highlight the inclusion of a new phase of preparation, in which the pre-citizen consultation is incorporated to interact on the desirability of the policy task to be undertaken. As for the initiation phase, it responds to the attempt to integrate all perspectives into a single text, as well as to enable an assessment of the influence of what will be the norm in a multitude of spaces, defined also according to multiple perspectives: equality between women and men, childhood and adolescence, economic and legal impacts, administrative burdens, linguistic rights, and the affection on citizenship, which is the main destination. As for instruction, once we already have a draft, it's about managing enrichment for a product... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ...citizenship, which is the main destination. As for instruction, once we already have a draft, it is about managing enrichment for an effective and efficient product. At this stage it is where the traditional and necessary procedures of audience and public information are incorporated. I would also like to stress the importance of the concentration of procedures and their telematic drive, because this depends on the main objective of achieving greater agility; it is often necessary for the public authorities and administrations to respond optimally to the needs of citizens. With this approach, we are looking for a new operating scheme. With this automatic impulse of the process, from all the bodies called to evaluate it, and accompanied by the issuance of the various opinions within a single and common time frame, lies the most important measure to achieve a more agile procedure. And with regard to the finalisation and approval phase, nothing more needs to be commented on, as a good procedure will enable the adoption of the new standard to meet its objectives. That will be the new governance that I have noticed. It is also important to stress that this law aims to consolidate and enhance the effectiveness of the purpose of our Law on Equality of Women and Men in terms of gender impact assessments to be carried out in the standard-setting procedures, and in terms of verification reports issued by Emakunde; enhancing the idea that such assessments should be complemented by real reflection processes on the possibility of updating and incorporating new measures to promote progress in equality in each sector action. In addition, this law makes important contributions in the field of linguistic standardization, as it incorporates the requirement that the standard be bilingual, in Basque and Spanish, before being submitted for prior approval. This is a practice which the Basque Government has already collected, but which is now raised and collected with a law rank. In short, this draft law revises the procedure for drawing up general provisions to give them greater agility, rigour and quality assurance. In this way, we will have a process that will promote the modernization of the Administration, concentrating the procedures, reducing bureaucratic burdens, by encouraging the electronic media by providing for a fully digital processing of the rules and decrees. Finally, I want to insist on the importance of this new prayer we propose; for we shall doubtless make a quantum leap to improve and modify the process of production by this funk, and give significant steps to clarity, simplicity, legal security, efficiency, transparency, lightness, and social equality. All that's meant to be a special attention to the quality of every text you made before you send it to the law. After all, it's about giving the people the most secure of security around every rule that's excited by fun. And above all, to answer with as much efficiency as possible to the satisfaction and protection of the public interest. I want to thank you teams again for the attitude and protection you've shown. I hope, thanks to this law, that the rules of this legislature may increase the production, which at the same time will help to develop as much as possible our avowed auto-gronze. In this modern world, which is constantly changing, we shall be able to answer better in answer to new states which may be in our power. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Passing to the teams, Mistto-Vox must not speak. Populars are going to vote. Together Podemos-Bezzerzie? Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, that's how it goes. Again, we are faced with a very technical law, but of considerable importance as it regulates the procedure to be followed for the elaboration of general provisions. That is, of all normative projects, from bills of a higher level of power, to decrees, orders, etc. In carrying out our amendments, our aim was to focus on guarantees, legal guarantees that affect various areas, starting with the most basic ones. One of our constants throughout these amendments has been to introduce guarantees of good regulation, the fundamental objective of which was to improve the standard technically and, above all, to give it greater clarity. If this standard, if the norm is not clear and we do not preach by example, what can we expect from the standards that arise from it? Allow me to repeat myself, but we need more understandable laws. Technical language, legal rigour, taxativity are not constrained by clarity, understanding or coherence. And they shouldn't be, at least. And what we have called guarantees of good regulation is not a mere formality, it is an element of the legislative technique and it contributes to what jurists call legal certainty. We are talking about texts regulating rights, duties, public obligations, and even violations and sanctions. And given the significance of the norm and its impact on people's lives, we cannot afford not to be clear. Good regulation, in any case, does not appeal exclusively to the expository clarity of the provisions. In this respect, through our amendments, we have wanted to limit to the maximum the discretion of the decisions and the steps to be taken by the administration in drawing up the general provisions. Thus, in some cases, we have contributed to the realization of the content. In others, we have insisted on the need to motivate the decisions that are taken, especially in cases where it deviates from the norm... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... and contents. In others, we have insisted on the need to motivate the decisions that are taken, especially in cases where it deviates from the norm. Thus, in cases where urgency is declared in the procedure, it is possible to reduce the time limits by half and even to dispense with certain procedures, so it is particularly important to justify this decision. Another of the strengths of our amendments are those we can call "guarantees of citizen participation". And it is that the participation of society in the elaboration of the norms is for us a pillar in its processing since it contributes to the social legitimization of the regulations. On this basis, our contributions aim to facilitate the culture of participation by all citizens in public affairs in general and the opportunity for legislative and regulatory initiatives in particular. In more concrete terms, we have reconfigured some aspects related to pre-citizenship consultation. For example, in this way we have expanded the subjects of participation by referring to citizens as a whole as legitimate to participate in the prior consultation. The initial text was more restrictive, ambiguous and discretionary as it referred to the most representative subjects and organizations potentially affected by the rule. We have extended it to all citizens. At the same time, we have strengthened citizen participation in terms of time. Before the consultation had a maximum duration of 15 days, now that duration will be the minimum, with the expectation that this time will in any case be sufficient. We have also strengthened the participatory guarantees in question in form during the procedure, by introducing a clause that obliges the Administration to be guarantor of the issuing of the opinion of the citizen. Of course, all the regulation of participation procedures will be accompanied by the requirement of motivation, so that if any kind of restriction is observed in any of the procedures relating to citizenship rights, they must be expressed and justified. The next area we wanted to focus on was the impact of the rules.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u5	Sometimes it seems like paper can hold everything. However, it is very necessary to analyse the practical effects of law enforcement or the rule may have on people's lives. This is done through regulatory impact reports and assessments in various aspects. Surely for everyone is known the gender impact report, this is one of the great achievements of the equality law. Through our amendments to this law we have wanted to strengthen it in two ways. On the one hand, we have broadened its content; in addition to analysing the impact on the situation of women and men as a group, we will include the necessary and analysis of the cross-sectoral perspective in order to study the impact on the various groups of women. On the other hand, it has been strengthened and its mandatory nature, eliminating the power of the Administration to decide on its need or not. The gender impact report is complemented by the impact assessment on children and adolescents, the content of which will henceforth consist of a detailed explanation of the procedures carried out and their previous impact on children and adolescents, so as to measure compliance with the principle of the best interests of children. Along with the improvements made earlier, our group considered it crucial to include two more... three other improvements, in this case. The impact assessment of youth, the aim of which was to strengthen the cross-cutting of comprehensive youth policy. The exercise by young people of their rights must be protected and facilitated. And also the analysis of accessibility of both the technical instruments that contemplates the regulation and the implementation of the norm itself in those aspects that have a special impact on the right of universal accessibility to citizenship. Other impacts that are also relevant, such as the environmental impact and its effects on climate change mitigation or social impact, as well as the cost benefit analysis, which includes all those direct and indirect aspects that justify the approval of a project. The impact assessments of the rule to which I referred seek to prevent the negative consequences of the rules, which the rules may have in various areas of our society. However, it is essential to have another tool to assess the effects of regulations once they have entered into force. For us, therefore, it was particularly important to value the subsequent evaluation of the standard. And this is reflected in the norm, in the law, in a provision aimed at ensuring the periodic evaluation of the legal system. Finally, I did not want to finish my speech without referring to the mandatory report by Emakunde, whose creation we proposed in our amendment, but which was ultimately left out, could not be. But, in conclusion, we are very pleased because I believe we have managed to incorporate the vast majority of our contributions to the law. And that is why we will vote yes today. To thank the groups that support the Government for having included us and included all our amendments, which at first we saw were a significant amount and were satisfied from the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. San José. That's a vote. Collect EH. Yes, Mrs. Pindo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u7	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. We have, as has been said today, a plan of the law of procedure for general regulations. And it has also been said that the chief physician, for instance, will not open the cover of the newspaper, and will not fill the hours on television or radio tools, but it does not mean at all that this law is of no importance. This law will have more influence than it thinks. For us, this law will, thanks to the contributions made by our team, be of great importance to us on the way in which the support will be made to the legislature. It is not a quite new law, and it has been said. In fact, in 2003, the previous law of the same name was accepted. But... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... On the way. It's not entirely new, and it's said. In fact, in 2003, the previous law of the same name was accepted. But during these 20 long years there have been profound changes by several laws, and one must be observed to re-establish the procedure of making regulations, and to re-establish it. that it was necessary to bring them under control. And then today we will accept a new law in the legislature. After all, a law which explains the procedure, conditions, and duties of making laws. In order to make general arrangements, this law has the principal purpose of improving the quality of the products of the rule, and, in order to achieve these principal purposes, several of the basic tools are: to encourage, strengthen, and encourage the people in the course of their proceedings, or to promote the efforts of the evaluation, either beforehand or afterwards, in order to obtain complete information of the establishment by successful reviews. In this law of the United States there were two principal ends in the administration of the legislature, and in the exercise of rule: On the one hand, to establish and explain the principles of the quality of the rules and of good supplication, and, on the other, to guarantee the presence of the support from the very beginning of the same trial, to guarantee that the language of the workers and citizens is a language for making laws, and to guarantee the rights of all the course of the course. These two principal targets for the Basque Country have been essential in the entire administration of this legal project, and we have thus explained in the negotiation process. For us, this law is 21. he was obliged to answer the euphoric society of the century. The Euskar was to be supported in the formation of the laws. The laws ought to be established in the Euscalia, and the Basque laws must not always be attained by translations to the laws derived from the Basque parliament. The draft law we are dealing with on the procedure for the elaboration of general provisions, as we have already mentioned, will not raise passions or bring great headlines, but that does not take away from an important law, because, after all, it is the law that defines how the rest of the laws should be drafted. Therefore, since Euskal Herria Bildu, from the beginning we have made it clear that this law should clearly and explicitly contain principles of normative quality that would respond to the needs of today's society. Thus, we have introduced 11 basic principles of regulatory quality, ranging from the fact that the initiative must be justified for a reason of general interest, through proportionality, transparency in allowing simple, universal and up-to-date access to existing legislation, and that potential beneficiaries are actively involved in the development of standards, simplicity and comprehensibleness, quality of information, accessibility, so that all people can exercise their rights before the Administration, equality between men and women, participation, so that active listening and citizen collaboration measures will be established to ensure their participation in the procedure for the development of standards, sustainability, and, of course, linguistic equality. To penetrate the equality of languages, and into the word writing, we have introduced a new article in the text, in order to ensure the equality of the two official languages in the process of regulating order, and to keep them in communication with the people and their hundred associations, and to encourage the use of the support. Suspension of the use of Euskar is essential to the Basque People in this law. In other words, we have included in the law that public institutions will take measures to narrow the rules with a certain regularity of quality, and to ensure the equivalent of the intermediate and eucalyptic versions of youth. Thus every rule which regulates this law must be written in both official languages. The procedure of regulating will be eloquent throughout the whole course of the process, and the language of those who participate in the regulation and of the rules will be guaranteed by rights, and the intelligibleness of the lyrical versions of general regulations will be preserved and strengthened by the emancipation of justice and equity. We insist on the law that all the publications of duty must always be done in both official languages. And we've just inserted a contract that will be able to establish a digital site for the publication of the laws and consolidated texts, where all the versions of the change of law will be reported in both official languages, of course, and whether it is disarmed or not. Thus, by our contributions, the action of general regulations takes a great step in the process of normalization of the use of the support. By our contributions, it is given a place in the process of the action of general regulations to support it, and we hope that in the texts which are really applied to this law, the language is originally a work. From Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that our contributions in the field of the use and standardization of euskera in the elaboration of general provisions are a firm step towards making euskera a working language from the beginning of these procedures, so that euskera is not the language subject to and relegated to translation in the final phase. We believe that our contributions will actively contribute to ensuring that Basque public workers can carry out their work in Basque in a normal and natural way, and that linguistic equality is a principle of quality assurance of the policy-making process, ensuring the contrast between the two versions, their equivalence and their correction. The task of this law of procedure has therefore been advanced by the consent of our contributions to the Basque People, in order to make general regulations. As I have said before, we had two principal ends when we proceeded to the treatment of this law: on the one hand, to establish and explain the principles of the quality of the rules and of good supplication, and, on the other, to guarantee the presence of resistance from the very beginning of the same process. For us, the substance of the eucaia was essential, and therefore it was necessary that our contributions to the Basques should be preserved in the law throughout the whole process. We've made our goal, so we've improved the law itself. By our contributions, we have strengthened the role of the eucaco, and the rights of eruption... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... We've made our goal, so we've improved the law itself. By our contributions, we have strengthened the role of the eucaco, and we have confirmed the rights of the eucalyte. We've made a big step in the normalization of the cradle, we've managed to make the eucalyptus stand in its place. So that we may present our protection to this law, and follow closely the development of the same law, and the rule derived from it. To finish, just to thank you. It's been an easy job, you know, because it's easy to say, because I think we've all set up a project on our side. To thank him, we... it was easy, because some of us have been very sincere from the beginning, I believe, and from the beginning we set some conditions on the table, which were impossible for us. To thank Mr. Atucha, Mrs. San José, and the rest of my colleagues, well, because I needed more interviews, and particularly, I'd like to thank Mr. Atucha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. The law which this chamber will accept today is, as it were, a law of technical origin. And, in order to accept the facts, as we said on the final committee, there's probably no great interest in the community. But, to be honest, it's the law. It's because you're supposed to know how to make all the other laws. This law that we are going to pass today sets out the procedure for drawing up the rest of the laws and regulations that are to be transmitted from the Basque Government, we transfer to this House, and it does so by establishing a way of doing so, by establishing a series of irrefutable minimums that any legislative product must comply with. Better legislation, transparent legislation, support and opinions of citizens and stakeholders are needed, and our laws and regulations need to be effective initiatives. This law, therefore, is the mold, the pattern, the model, as it sets out the guidelines and steps to follow and the basic principles to be followed by all others. The head of the Mounts has already declared what the precedents of this Law are, and the reasons of which he has been led to promote this baron of the legislature. I haven't repeated it again. In fact, I've been working for years to improve the quality of the rules, especially to encourage all the agents that can contribute, to follow the axis of good management in the general deutson orientation: transparency, evaluation and sharing and a conversation with the people. The main developments of the law: we continue with the same outline of stages of preparation, initiation and instruction, but important developments are introduced in the instruction phase, which is the most important of all; we enrich the process with procedures that provide additional information to the norm; the processing and emergency initiatives already contained in the 2003 law are made possible, but a clearer and more operational regulation is introduced; the obligation is established to periodically review and evaluate the existing legislation, so that it is adapted to the principles of good regulation; a new measure is introduced, the issuance of the normative impact memory; the concentration of procedures is achieved, thus giving more speed to the normative production, and a new report of the Commission of Local Governments is introduced. We, our team, wanted this bill of law to go on with as much protection as possible. And we Eurta patriots believe that this purpose has been fulfilled. We have made a productive negotiation with the rest of the teams, and the result of this work is the text we bring today to accept to this legislature. In the opinion of the Basque patriots, it has been a very positive task, because the project helped to improve the original text. Among the agreements reached, we would highlight the following: we introduce a new article in which we list the principles of normative quality, necessity and effectiveness, proportionality, legal certainty, transparency, simplicity and comprehensibleness, quality of information, accessibility; we emphasize the scope of equality of women and men, citizen participation, linguistic equality and sustainability; we improve the forecasts of urgent processing, the elements related to gender impact assessments; we need more the article that safeguards citizen participation, as well as the article that establishes the impact on children and adolescents. And to finish my speech, I would like to thank Mr. Gordillo, Mr. Angulo, Mrs. Of all the groups which we have attempted to cultivate this law, together with the Governor's Department, we will accept a better law. You're going to send me to this GMM, and you're going to mark the future law projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u10	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Is anyone willing to join us on the answer shift? Mr. Angul or Mr. Pindo? No one, so... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u11	End of discussion, we'll vote. They'll vote together, Podemos-Nozzer, with the articles of check correction, 52, 54, 55, and 56 articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes given, 70; 4; the contrary, 46; Absences, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u12	They weren't allowed. The articles and regulations of the judgment that have been corrected together are put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; vows given, 70; the opponents 70; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u13	So they're unanimous. The rest of the articles and regulations of the judgment that have not been corrected together are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; vows given, 70; the opponents 70; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u14	It's unanimous. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u15	It's accepted. Therefore the law of making general regulations is approved. After that, I'll vote for you. Ms. Martínnez has to take the word in a vote. Mists, no. So, Mr Gordillo, representatives of the Popular-Chaulian band.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, Mrs Garamendi. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on the procedure for drawing up general provisions – as has been said before – will not be a law that is likely to come out on the front pages. It will not be a law that probably makes headlines of major television, radio, etc. news, but it is a law that is of paramount importance, as in part also the adviser said in her speech to defend this project. This law, in fact, does precisely what it does to regulate, to clarify above all, to codify, to reform the legislation that already existed in relation to the process prior to the submission by the Government of provisions of both a legal and a regulatory nature, in order, where appropriate, to any subsequent processing. Above all, what affects us in this Parliament is a very important law because it sets out all these previous steps, the reports that must be asked for, etc., and so on, which in the end also guarantees the quality of legislation itself. This law, moreover, is very important because it directly interferes with what is the law itself of the Basque Government, of the Basque Government, and it also interferes with what are the rules that establish both the Statute and the Rules of this House in the procedure, in the process of adopting rules. Therefore, it includes what could technically be called the statute block, that is, those rules that are, in turn, reference standards, control rules, could subsequently be for the rules emanating from that process. In much simpler words, this process must be respected in everything it sets out, because if not the rules that arise from it could have certain vices that could invalidate them in the future. Secondly, this law, as we said, clarifies, orders the process of drafting laws, bills, decrees, etc. We have taken a proactive attitude here from the beginning, and for that reason, I also thank the spokespersons of the groups supporting the Government, Atutxa, Mrs San José, in order to try to reach agreements, and above all, to improve that text, which I believe is of benefit to society in general, particularly with regard to the principles also of normative quality, which, although they are already in fact in the Law of Procedure as in Law 39/2015, specifically in Article 129, but it is a good thing that it is also in Basque law itself, and we have pointed out this too. This law is also a law that we could use as a case of profuse good practice, that is, we could assess how this law works in the future when developing such proposals, provisions or proposals for provisions by the Government, and see how we could even add new processes or lighten others to do exactly what is the most open, transparent and, above all, more efficient legislative process that is what it is all about. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, this is a technical law that clarifies the legislative process, rationalises it and brings elements of good regulation, necessary rules, clear rules... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... of a technical law that clarifies the legislative process, rationalises it and provides elements of good regulation, necessary rules, clear rules and standards that are met, because it is not so much about doing many laws, many rules, it is about doing them well. Allow me to recall here, with you, ladies and gentlemen, that passage that surely you all know much better than I do. When Sancho Panza is appointed governor of the coastal island, Don Quixote writes to him and tells him that of: "Do not do many pragmatics, Sancho, and, if you do them, try to make them few and keep and fulfill themselves". Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u17	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u18	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. President, Vence Prefect, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. The draft law on the procedure for drawing up general provisions began its course in this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term, finalising its parliamentary course. And today it has been adopted with a great consensus, not only of the groups that we support the Government, but of all the groups that are represented in this House. With this law, we have faced the challenge of modernizing and expediting the procedure in a new comprehensive articulated text which has incorporated and incorporated into a single law all the rules concerning the procedure for drawing up general provisions. This law has been discussed here today as a law. And its overall objective remains to order the procedure that gives life to all the normative projects of the Basque Government. In short, it is a decisive text for creating standards. This law will review the drafting procedure with a view to updating and improving, to the extent possible, both the rigour and quality assurance of the rules to be produced and the agility of the procedure, including its updating in the general digitization process and in the basic framework provided for in various laws, such as the common administrative procedure, the legal regime of the public sector, as well as other legislative changes by the law of local institutions and the law of equality of women and men, both of the Basque Republic. Progress in terms of transparency, principles of good governance, evaluation of public policies or citizen participation, both in impact assessment procedures and in the development of general provisions, is being demanded from both citizens and European bodies. And these developments have necessitated an adaptation of the text governing the current standard-setting procedure. The experience gained over the past few years has shown that, under the previous law, the average interval necessary for the Basque Government to complete a policy process was extended to one year. An excessive period, both from the effectiveness of public action and from the point of view of the urgency of a contemporary society. The reduction in the processing times and in particular of the instructional phase and the time of issuance of the mandatory reports which this law seeks to implement is intended to be a concrete reflection of the principles of efficiency, efficiency and economy, which must illuminate the work of public administrations. This law aims, as noted by the Sailburu Garamendi, to consolidate and enhance the effectiveness of the designs of our law for the equality of women and men in terms of gender assessments and verification reports issued by Emakunde. In short, update and improve the law; more rigour, more quality and faster. Objectives that, from the Basque Socialist Group, we also share, and that is why we have supported this law with our votes. I would like to end by thanking all the representatives, the various parliamentary groups - Mrs Pinedo, Mr Angulo, Mr Gordillo and Mr Atutxa - for their extended hand and their talent. Thanks to all the contributions of all the parliamentary groups, we have a better text, we have a more complete text. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u19	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Second point on the subject list: "The development and development of the Equionomy and the development of the News Committee, made on the project of the development of the country environment. Discipline and final resolution. My representative, Mrs. Tapia, is your word to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you who have come to the President, to the Chief, to the parliamentary, and to this parliament. My speech will be brief today, because I think that we owe protagonism to the result that we've really worked among the legal teams today. The project, as the procedure says, came from the Economics development, patience, and Environmental Department, and will be accepted today after the Council of Government has sent it here. And since we've been willing to make a better law together from the beginning, since that attitude has been, I'd like to thank you also for your position. Thanks for this attitude has been productive and constructive. And I would now remark the reason and purpose of this new law which we have in hand. This new rural development law will replace the existing law adopted in 98. And the repeal of this last law is explained on the basis that the transformations that have taken place during these more than 20 years as well as the challenges facing our rural environment today demand a regulation that drives tools and instruments adapted to respond to a new scenario. Eta have been aipatzen nuen bezala, I would like to thank the various political groups of the House for their cooperation in the process of passing this law, and also to express our satisfaction from the department that I am to lead, for the broad consensus that has been achieved, since the law will count on the support of the groups of EAJ-PNV, Socialist Party of Euskadi, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos as well as with the abstention of the PP-Citizens group. This law will be applied in all rural areas of Euskadi. That is why we consider the consensus in its adoption to be good news, since the implementation of... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... this law will apply in all rural areas of Euskadi, therefore we consider the consensus in its adoption to be good news, since the implementation of this new law will entail the work and commitment of multiple economic and social actors of the territory. But also the consensus and institutional work, both at the local level and by municipalities and councils, as well as at the territorial level from the outside parliaments and, of course, from the Basque Government itself. I would like to highlight the object of the law, which seeks to empower the rural environment. Strengthen it from a level playing field with respect to the rest of the territory. It is therefore a law which aims to develop and promote the development of the Basque Country from the point of view of equity, cohesion, justice, equal rights between people living in rural areas and also urban areas. From this point of view it is considered that the sustainable development of the Basque countryside will not only benefit the rural areas themselves, but also that the development and economic, social and territorial cohesion of the whole of the Basque Country depends on the future of these areas. It is therefore a country development vision that permeates all the actions provided for in this law. To encourage the growth of the country is not only to work on certain specific areas, or to intervene, and that is all. That's not it. The maintenance of the proper Western development is a fairer process of stability, of patient development, and of building. It is not merely the first sector to consider these surroundings, but to spread new possibilities in these areas, but to face and answer to future roots, and to develop and guarantee services necessary from a social point of view. In economic development there is need to be helped in these areas, which is the law of this kind. And if we look at the demographic challenge, the little people attracts, and the law offers the future to the fields. We believe that the law is also in full line with the European Commission's proposal on communications or concrete communication on the long-term vision for rural areas of the European Union, which is to be developed until 2040 and which was adopted just now a year ago with the aim of achieving stronger, more resilient, prosperous and well-connected rural areas. The communication to which we referred establishes two working mechanisms to achieve the objectives set out above. On the one hand, a rural action plan in the European Union itself, with emblematic, tangible projects, also tools, of course. And on the other hand, a rural pact. This rural pact is a framework for cooperation between authorities and stakeholders at European, State, regional and local level. The aim is to implement it in order to contribute to the achievement of the shared long-term vision objectives for those rural areas that exist in the European Union, as well as to develop a broader commitment by the Union itself to implementing the United Nations sustainable development goals, while at the same time ensuring balanced territorial development. Thus, from the Basque Government we have responded to this invitation from the European Commission to participate in the rural pact through concrete accession to it, as a gesture to show our commitment to achieving the long-term vision objectives in those rural areas, and thus to be part of the community of signatories to the pact. We have done so because we share the ten major objectives that it envisages and because we believe that our new law, and the subsequent regulatory development that it will entail, as well as the tools and instruments to be developed, are a clear commitment of Euskadi to the proposal launched by the European institutions. This proposal also introduces the Rural Proofing mechanism - or what we have translated as a rural lens - with a view to reviewing the main policies of the European Union and considering the possible impacts and implications that they may have in those rural areas. This is precisely one of the main milestones of this new law. To ensure that the policies to be developed from different areas are designed from different institutions and take account of their condition in the Basque countryside. To this end, it is envisaged that plans, programmes and institutional initiatives affecting rural areas, and prior to their adoption, will have to be submitted to binding reports by the departments responsible for rural development, both from the Basque Government and from outside Parliaments. The aim is to prevent policies that may have an impact on the rural environment from being taken from purely urban perspectives and ratios. The law also provides for the strengthening of existing governance to work in favour of our rural areas by hand, at all institutional, local, territorial, regional and European levels, as well as the most representative socio-economic actors, especially rural development associations. Hence, the appropriateness of establishing a Basque rural development network is envisaged and other bodies are adapted to include those responsible for rural development within them. All this also requires optimal coordination, so within the HAZI Foundation a new service called Lurralde is created. Any development must be based on sound strategic planning. Therefore, another element of this new law - and we would like to highlight it in particular - is the different strategic programmes and plans that it envisages and that will be the result of subsequent regulatory development. The implementation of a new rural zoning, as well as the funding elements included in the law, are also key. But I would like to stress that all of this is aimed at promoting that our rural areas are attractive places to live, train, work and undertake. We want these areas to be integrated on an equal footing with the rest of the territory in terms of sustainability, economic development, innovation, modernity, entrepreneurship, new technologies. And, therefore, they are a space where our young people also have a chance for the future. We are aware that the ageing of our population, while affecting Euskadi as a whole, has a particular impact on certain rural areas. Therefore, in order to mitigate this impact and to avoid its depopulation, it is necessary to promote a rural development policy that will retain in a special way and carry out special policies in the field of... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... It is necessary to promote a rural development policy that retains in a special way and implements special policies on youth and women, so as to promote real equality of opportunity. We must therefore continue to work, we must continue to work, in order to continue to provide these areas with the basic and quality infrastructure and services necessary to enable them to undertake these actions. And although I speak of it at the end of my discourse, I would remark that the law does not forget that our first sector does not, in the duration of the fields, and the strategic function which fills the management of lands and environments. It is not even their economic task and their supply of food. We don't want to forget them, just the opposite. We really consider them, because there are many positive outside the first sector. For this reason we can clearly see that the field development is to be effected with the people who work in this sector and respectfully. This law must therefore produce necessary contrivances and tools. What for? Now the true leading man, the peasant, and the rest of the people who live in it, in view of the local institutions and the organizations of the country, and the interventions which are to promote a permanent development in the country, must really be done, and thus we shall have to make the whole of Euskadia's territory more orderly and real. That's how we can help with this law. To finish again, I want to thank you for protecting the law for doing the work you did. And we are all faced with a very important challenge by this law which we accept today. We must continue to work, develop everything, and, in fact, we must cultivate the balance of all lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea. Explicacion de voto. Together, Podemos, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u22	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, congressmen, chief physician, President. Good morning. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we will vote in favour of this law, the law of rural development, because we believe that we have been able to integrate in this law amendments and aspects that were very important to improve the quality of life of the rural world. Issues such as ensuring fair prices for their products and services to the primary sector, promoting sustainable, healthy and close agriculture, and increasing environmental and climate protection as key to advancing rural development. Of some 41 amendments to this law, we have been able to agree or have sex, more or less, half. And, among the amendments adopted, we would like to highlight the following. First, from our parliamentary group we understand that the best measure to improve quality in the rural world and in the primary sector, the demographic challenge, or the lack of generational relevancy in the agricultural sector, is to guarantee the primary sector fair prices for their products. Prices that, at least, cover the cost of energy, inputs, the salaries of the activity, and so that people can get enough income to carry out a decent life project in the rural area. The food chain law, a state law recently modified thanks to the participation of United Podemos in the Congress, obliges the farmer, farmer, transporter, distributor and end user to pay a fair price for the product, and to cover at least the costs of each of the links in the value chain. Euskadin, as we reminded the president of in a plune, the Eusk0 will be guaranteed that the products of our fishermen, cattlemen and farmers will be able to get a fair price from the main divider or from the restaurant sector. But the government has not yet established the necessary prices, and it is not worth seeing that the contracts between the operator in the chain cover the cost. For this reason, we have purposely sought to speak of the law of the country's development in order to guarantee fair prices in the country world. Recently, with fuel prices above two euros per litre, we are seeing again stoppages and possible damage from strikes by carriers to get, at least, revenues that cover their costs. The rural world is also taking on more losses every day because of the increase in the price of diesel and fertilizers. And in Euskadi we still do not guarantee fair prices to the primary sector. Therefore, our amendment integrates into the rural development law the express obligation to guarantee fair prices to the primary sector as a fundamental principle and axis of this law, so that it allows them to live from their work and fosters rooting in the towns and villages of Euskadi. "Otra de las enmidas quemos incorporado laley, y que queremos destacar, es la de fomentar activendades de allo añad ido y resilentes a la cadena de ragero." The first sector must be directed to products and services of high-added and healthy quality. These products and services must be independent because there are no imported products. We have also been able to incorporate the European Commission's farm-to-table strategy into the law. And in this regard, we have focused on the need to boost local agriculture and the zero kilometre, and bring producers closer to final consumers. There is a need for progress in food sovereignty, regenerative agriculture and healthy products that are environmentally friendly. In this regard, we have incorporated amendments to ensure that the rural development law complies with the European Union's environmental and climate policy and that hybrid resources, rivers and coastal forests are respected. We therefore believe that we have been able to improve this law with key aspects such as ensuring fair prices to the primary sector, promoting sustainable, healthy, close agriculture, and increasing environmental and climate protection. However, not everything is light in this law. And even though our positioning... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...sustainable, healthy, close, and increase environmental and climate protection. However, not everything is light in this law. And although our position is favourable and will be favourable, we consider it important and also necessary to mention other issues. On the one hand, we have come across an excessively bureaucratic law that lacks much development. A rural development law that does not specify or define rural areas to which this law applies. And this lack of concreteness can be resolved with future regulatory development. We understand the meaning. And while it is true that there are indicators that will determine the reason, why subsidies are distributed, it is still less true than this inconcretion in the law because it can also lead to some discretion. Nor do we believe that the management model of territorial development plans is the most appropriate. The management of these plans has been entrusted to Lurralde, a new company to be founded by the HAZI Foundation. The HAZI Foundation focuses especially on the primary sector. But the development of the rural world needs holistic and comprehensive policies to solve problems such as housing, employment, social policies or care policies. From our group we have insisted that rural development is much more than just the primary sector, that not all people living in the rural world work in the primary sector. It's not enough to develop the first sector to improve the life in the fields and the romance. In fine trades, pretty employments, pretty homes, pretty society, pretty youths, and so many other pretty ones. The HAZI and Lurralde Foundation specializes in the agro-farming sector, but lacks competence in these other aspects. From Elkarrekin We have proposed for such management the creation of an interdepartmental team of the Basque Government to make territorial or regional reactivation plans that went beyond the primary sector. But this has not been taken into account at the moment. Nor have we been able to deal with our amendments in the Basque Government's forestry policies. A forest policy that devotes most of our mountains to the monoculture of pines and eucalyptus. We have already urged the Basque Government, both in the annual budgets and in the Basque Natural Heritage Conservation Act, to take a 180-degree turn in forest policies. Pines and eucalyptus are a threat to biodiversity, they dry the soil, they are a huge risk to fires, even more with the heat waves that are going to increase due to increased temperatures and the climate crisis. We have also urged them, over and over again, to reduce the number of pines and eucalyptus trees and replace them with indigenous forests. But the Government continues to promote rural development that endangers our forests and our municipalities. That is why we have wanted to reserve amendments in this respect which have not been approved because we believe that there are much better aspects, such as the above-mentioned forest management of mountains and the management of territorial or district rural development plans by Lurralde. It is, therefore, a very improved and unfinished law, which awaits the development of the rule. Nevertheless, we vote for this law, because we think we've introduced very important corrections into the law. To guarantee the first sector just prices for its products and services, to promote agriculture, health, and nearness, and to increase the protection of environment and climate, is essential to increase the growth of the world. Eta, amaitzeko, eskerrak eman nahi dizkiegu to the companions of the rest of the groups that have participated in the process and in the negotiation of this law, Suso jauna, Prieto jauna, Etxebarria andrea, to Mrs Larrea. From my colleague David Soto, who has been in it, has asked me to highlight the concreteness, transparency and facilities they have had to reach agreements. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u24	President, ladies and gentlemen. The parliamentary process of the rural development law has given us the opportunity to deepen and update in three aspects: in the new reality of transformations and challenges in the last 24 years, when the previous law has been operational; in the current concerns of the different actors operating in the rural environment, through the numerous appearances held in this Parliament; in the contrast of opinions and proposals on the regulatory aspects of the law that we will adopt today. Together with this collective and participatory work, we have worked on the initiatives presented by the parliamentary groups. And the balance sheet is very positive because the degree of agreement has been high, as reflected in the large number of amendments that have been or are being accepted. In this Parliament, representatives and experts from the rural environment asked us, among other things, that they wanted more and better public services in education, health care, transport, sports facilities, social welfare, leisure, cultural; that they wanted economic diversification, cross-cutting policies; that people should not become dormitories; that no more land should disappear. They called for 20-year policy planning, for economic aid to arrive in a reasonable time, for more transformation businesses in the primary sector, for people to be living peoples, for strategic and sectoral objectives to be well defined, for the need to renew the model of participation, the preservation and defence of biodiversity and natural space, agrotourism with more and better services, comprehensive public policies to avoid the march of young people and depopulation, to ensure certain public services through technology, to ensure that the primary sector did not lose weight, more support for agriculture and livestock... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... certain public services through technology, ensuring that the primary sector did not lose weight, more support for agriculture and livestock, as the best means of establishing population, boosting generational empowerment, facilitating and increasing the participation of women in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen, as can be seen from the opinion before us today, the draft law covers and addresses most of the concerns expressed, because they were already part of the draft at the beginning of its proceedings and because everything that has happened subsequently has made it possible to strengthen and improve different political lines, with an interesting exercise of consensus. This law is inspired and committed to sustainable development, to the application of intelligence, to cross-cutting and inclusive policies. A law aligned with the European Union in territorial cohesion policy, with a new and more modern and adapted governance for the time we live and for its future, with new planning, management and financing instruments that respond correctly to strategic and sectoral objectives. A law that adapts to the new needs organizational instruments of planning, zoning, to reinforce the strategic role that agrarian activity has in the economy, in the production of food and commodities, in territorial and environmental management. A law that assumes that the different territorial realities in rural areas need equivalent and proportionate developments. A law that updates the instruments of participation, control, monitoring, evaluation of different administrations and representative actors, improving public-private collaboration. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges to which we are called today and tomorrow affect us all and fully. No one is safe from climate change, demographic changes, the shortage of raw materials, the need to develop alternative sources of energy to those known to be clean and safe, the effects of globalization and also the effects of deglobalisation. Water, its quantity and quality, the production of food, the necessary changes in consumption habits require concerted, unitary action, and the rural environment has a decisive role in all this while the urban environment has a growing need for it to be so. We live in a vulnerable space beneath our feet and above our heads. Avoiding more and correcting excesses is a permanent task that involves all political activity and all legislative production. Harming the planet is the same as hurting yourself. All our actions in the environment in which we live have consequences. In our hand you are choosing the result. This law requires that rural development be given leadership and action capacity, because what happens and happens in rural areas is and will be decisive for many of the human needs of the future, as well as for its most direct actors. Nature gives us everything, except that which we incomprehensiblely destroy. This law wants to have an ally to nature, because of it we live. And that is why, using the broad competences we have in the Basque Country for rural development and from the perspective of creating more opportunities and advancing equality, it covers economic diversification, the promotion of tourism, the food industry, leisure, renewable energy, the basic services of entrepreneurship. This law aims to facilitate access to housing, to defend agricultural land, to promote ecological natural products, and to promote proximity markets. This law aims to strengthen the preservation of identity and cultural heritage, stable and quality employment, transport; it wants to support the maintenance of agricultural income, enhance generational and family relief and farmers; it wants to be useful for the creation of new businesses; it wants to be a useful law in time for the stated objectives. And with the help of most of the groups in this House we can say that we have done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u25	Thank you, Mr Price. Mrs. Houseboy... Okay, I'm sorry, Mrs. Houseland, Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today we adopt the new rural development law. A law that has much scope in the theoretical framework, but that actually has a very practical approach. The law begins by describing the inspiring principles that should serve as a compass for achieving fair, balanced and sustainable rural development. These principles are set out in objectives that cover various areas and should be taken into account in the development of territorial development programmes, regional rural development plans and local development plans. Rules are laid down for the development of programmes, who promotes them, who develops them, who takes part in the process, how they will be evaluated, what will be reflected in them, how projects around them will be financed... The inspirational principles and ends of the law are extensive and ambitious, but it is difficult to obtain that if the different policies which the Government transports into other countries are not consistent with them. That is to say, all the ends which are planned in the law cannot be attained only by those tools which are archetyped by this law. This law is but one of the necessary measures of proceeding in this direction. All the policies which the Government has advanced should therefore consider the influence which influence the country environment, and the positive or negative influence which this law exercises in the achievement of the goals of development which it proposes. I think it is essential to explain this to you, to give you the importance of the country's work, not more, not less, but proper. As has been said, this law proceeds from the preceding legislation. And it was then that the project presented itself to the law which planned certain changes for us. And some of them gave rise to many provisions, such as the zonification, the dissolution of the foreign organizations, and the contempt of local institutions. The government did domestic work, and the project that had been brought to us in this legislation reflected some changes that had been requested in the delegation in the text; but, in spite of all, the improvement of the text was indispensable to our party... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... the project that had brought us in this was reflected in the text some of the changes which had been requested in the delegation, and yet it was necessary, in our party, to improve the text. In this way, we want to thank you for all the contributions you've brought in, the help you've sent us, and the help you've given us by various agents. We want to thank all the people who helped us improve the text by sharing their deliberations and suggestions. Considering these, we filed corrections trying to improve and enrich the text. The most striking progress has been given in these respects. To emphasize the importance of the first sector which is the area-range axis; to compare the living region with city fields into an integrated challenge, to protect and improve the role of the country organizations, and to enhance the means of financing them; to encourage the model of governing from below, to ensure that the wearers are concerned; to guarantee that local institutions are respected by the jurisdictions; that the view of the genus will be grafted in programmes; that the rights of the local environment may be taken deliberately; that the rights of language may be supported and supported by the support of the suffering. And, in truth, we are content with the results we have acquired; for we have succeeded in reflecting our corrections on all sorts of things. Maybe we didn't plan it exactly, but it was in a way that we planned it, in a way that was supplementable to the original text. We believe that our rectifications and your obtained transactions have improved the original text clearly, and that is why we vote for it. We've tried to highlight the importance of the first sector to the country environment as a source of quality nutrients and a structurer for field development. His work is indispensable, as has been said, in the field, but also in the city area. For the future of the first sector, it is indispensable to increase the share of women, and, attracting young men, to obtain the redemption. But at the same time, we must take advantage of new technology, bionomy, digitalization, etc. Considering all this to be a permanent management of water and soil, biomas, bidibertsity, and landscape, by seeking the balance between human activities and the maintenance of the country. We have succeeded in making this law one of its objectives the challenge of achieving a quality of life for the rural environment similar to that of the urban environment in order to eliminate the gap between these two realities. Today, it cannot be accepted that people living in peoples must lead a life of constant renunciation. We have also focused on participation. We have included the involvement of rural development associations in the development of territorial development programmes, as they are essential for our group to be able to make an adequate diagnosis, not only of the needs, but also of the opportunities of each region. We have also improved the representation of local institutions by ensuring that they participate in the development of these programmes through prior consultation; so that their competences and right to take part in decisions affecting them are respected. In addition, participatory processes have been incorporated into the development of local development plans. And in all these instruments we have ensured the presence of agricultural unions, among other socio-economic actors. For us, too, funding was important, as in the pre-amendment appearances we heard a number of people say that there were interesting projects that were left behind for lack of funding, as the money given to them gave them just to pay for operating expenses. In the new law, thanks to the contributions of our group, the Basque institutions with competence in the field of rural development will guarantee their own instruments, in addition to maintaining the structures of the ADRs, to develop specific projects covered by the regional rural development programmes. We believe that this is a very positive achievement and that it will result in a greater dynamism of the ADRs and the regions. The aid plans of the Basque Government and the deputies will also positively discriminate between projects identified as tractors in the different programmes and plans. Apart from this, we asserted that the genus view and the language are grafted in the programmes, and that the rights and patience of language are included. It's not a small contribution, we think. But, as has been said, the cultivation of the country ought to be in the aim of all politics, because it is necessary to maintain the balance and the balance of society. The policy and resolutions connected with health, education, apartment, transport, energy, ogain, and other parts ought necessarily to have the influence of foreign development and of the first sector. And we can't take a step back in these fields. The field must not only be a field for leisure or tourist. The improvement of the life of those who live in it is indispensable to the depopulation and demography of the inhabitants, because the growth of the country is the development of society. Hence we believe that this law might have been a greater ambition, but the majority of the members of this legislature at the present day, we believe that we have obtained a new and useful law by the contributions we have made. We hope to lead a lot of new projects from organizations and local organizations and to start them off. Several elements, as has been said, have remained for the development by rule, others for the typelogies and development fields of the field. This new model is not developed, but we believe that if we perform a careful initial examination and diagnosis, and characterize the fields properly, we can divide them in a more direct and efficient manner. It is clear, however, that this development by rule is not in our power. Today we vote for the law with a nod, but from now on the government will make most decisions. The position of teams supporting the government has been open and generous during the negotiation. And I want to thank Mr. Suso and Mr Price for his contributions to the rest of the team. We've taken steps to the arrangement, and we've agreed in the same direction. Considering this, we proceed with the responsible attitude we have shown during the development of the project, and we do not wish to lose the opportunity of prolonging our hand. For EH Collect, the field development is essential. We've been trying to improve the law and we're willing to help in its development. We will continue the course which begins today, and hope to have the illusion and hope of the landscape. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Eubertarians, Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Well, step in, except when you let... Mrs Larrea's intervention in the last round, after the intervention of the Sailburu and the parliamentary groups, has its advantages and disadvantages. I believe that in this case it has advantages, since, on the one hand, the Sailburu has transferred in its intervention the main innovations that incorporate the law, which are not few. And on the other hand, the people who preceded me in the atrium because they have also transferred their contributions and their contribution to a law that has achieved broad consensus. I believe that this broad consensus adds extra value to the content of a law which will be adopted today in the Basque Parliament and which amends that of 1998; therefore, it could not say many things, but since rural development is not going to be an issue that is very present in this House, and not in this Parliament, because I believe that even to repeat what has been said on other occasions, reaffirming it, is a good opportunity. Therefore, as I said in the intervention of the amendment to the whole that we had in its day, the draft law that was presented aims to achieve from the accumulated experience a model aimed at positioning the Basque rural environment as a fundamental factor in the development of the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the country, so that the rural environment is incorporated on an equal footing with the rest of the territory in terms of innovation, modernity, entrepreneurship – as said by the Sailburu – and thus helped to achieve a new and more integrated vision of the country. All this without obviating the strategic role of agrarian activity, which has emerged in several of the amendments to the law, because agrarian activity plays a fundamental role in the territorial, environmental management of Euskadi, in addition to its economic role and food supplier. In addition, we said this in the whole amendment, after the pandemic we have suffered, we have seen it more routinely. A bill that clearly defines the general and sectoral objectives in full, according to the different actions affecting the rural environment. A bill that also defines zoning by areas of development, eliminating the single categorization of the current model. If (?) consider in this way different photographs that reflect the situation of the rural areas of Euskadi with respect to each area..., of concrete analysis, making a particular categorization in each case. On the other hand, in my view, sectoral, territorial and local programmes and plans represent a model that clarifies each action once designed and drafted – as I said (?) in the atril–, a work that needs to be developed and which now comes to be carried out by different entities and bodies. This will increase the effectiveness of their objectives in each case and in each area of decision-making. Nor does the draft law seek to define a single implementing arm of the proceedings in each and every one of the subjects that we have in our system distributed by different departments, but that each competent body puts them in programmes and plans from their respective experience and sectoral knowledge. And I also believe, as we said in the..., it said (?) I in the amendment to the whole of its day, that the law is respectful of the model of distribution of competences between common and territorial institutions. It also defines the areas of action in a clear and precise manner in each case, with the coordination work which the Basque Government has assigned and which has been demonstrating its functioning throughout its existence. All this, moreover, has been enriched by the contributions of the parliamentary groups through their amendments. We have incorporated an important number, about 80%, either by adopting directly or by having sex with the agreement of the PNV, PSE, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin groups We can, and also with the abstention, I hope, of the People's Party, as he said in the presentation, which for me knows a yes and an approval after the amendment as a whole. In the times we live in, we have to recognize that these consensuses are not very common, and I therefore value them, because, as has been done in other interventions, I think it is important for a law like this, a law that affects a large area, not to say 80% of the (?) in Euskadi, and therefore my great satisfaction for it. I want to thank in this work the consensus and (?) of consensus, the work carried out by the different spokesmen of the political groups, David Soto by Elkarrekin Podemos, Itxasso Etxebarria by EH Bildu, and Muriel Larrea by the People's-Citizens Party, who with their work and contributions have made it possible. It has been very nice working with you and with you, and I think that finally reaching a compromise or by an 80% amendment agreement, I think it is not bad. I mean, we've worked well. I've done... in this period I've lost 15 kilos, that is, if I'm in charge of another law in this legislature, because I end up with a brush. I don't know if they're gonna take care of me any more, anyway. I would also like to thank my colleague Txarli Prieto for his contributions. And, if I may, I would also like to thank the work of Parliament's technical team, headed in this case by Montse Azurmendi, which we have worked side by side. In addition, it has enabled us to reach this Parliament, this plenary for its approval, with those deadlines that must be met, and that, as always, it has not been possible to avoid arriving with a certain speed. I also want to thank you –(?) is not present in the Chamber, in plenary – to the director of rural development of the Basque Government, Jone Fernández, because his contribution to the work of the development of the amendments has been fundamental in order to be able to carry out the final result in the best possible way, let us say. A todosellos, thank you, thank you. Well, I, and to conclude, was in the drafting of the previous law, in which today we amended the year 1998. That law that was adopted unanimously, although the constitution of Parliament at that time was different, but we got its adoption unanimously... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...we amended the year 1998. The law that was adopted unanimously, although the constitution of Parliament at that time was different, but we got its adoption unanimously. It is true that we were the first to adopt regulations in this area, but it is also true that the law has not been able to exploit itself with all the potential it had. I hope, and I hope that this law, today's law, which is passed today, will be able to do so, and meet all the expectations we have placed in it. Much will depend on us and on us. And little more to say. Let us continue, reaching consensus between the different political groups, leaving - as is often said - hairs in the catera, but reaching these important consensuses and, in this case, working to make possible a more lively rural environment, as said by the Sailburu, sustainable, innovative, with better services, attractive, with opportunities for the future, with quality of life. In short, putting citizenship at the centre of the policies to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Does he want to be part of the Basque Popular? Oh, yeah, right. Together? Socialists? Collect EH? Is EH Collect going to take the word? Ho ho, ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho Yeah? You want to take your word back? Nothing. [[Pause]] After the discussion, we'll have the vote. They're going to vote at once the corrections reserved by the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudados, the articles of judgment. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5, 5; contrary, 65; abstaining, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u31	So they didn't accept it. They'll be thrown together together by the Polydemos-Nozzeral amendments reserved by the Antice team, the articles of judgment. [[Pause]] Yeah. Excuse me? Doesn't it work? Eh? Yeah. You want me to block? There are two blocks. Number two, then. Oh, do you want me to name the articles? No, no. You want me to name the articles? Yeah? [[Berber]] No, no. We'll do it again. Okay, okay. We're from Podemus together, aren't we? Okay. Is there anything you think about getting out of? No. All right, whole block. Okay, we'll do it again. It goes to vote together, together, with Podemos-Nozzer, 8, 10, 10, 19, 27, 30, 41 and 42, to articles of judgment. Yeah? [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes are 71; the supporters 5; the opponents are 46. Absence, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u32	So they didn't accept it. They'll be thrown together together by Podemos-Nozzer by 9, 28, 31, 31, 35, 36, 38, 39, and 40 corrections made in the articles of judgment. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5, contrary to the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u33	So they didn't accept it. The articles and regulations of the judgment which have been corrected at the same time are put to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65, 0; abstain, 6; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u34	So it's accepted. The other articles and regulations of judgment, which have not been corrected at the same time, are put to the vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; the votes given, 71; the opponents of 70; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 1; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u35	They're approved. The account of the reserved corrections of the Basque Groups, Popular-Cyans, will be agreed upon at once by 51, 52, 53, 54, and 55. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5, 5; contrary, 65; abstaining, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u36	They weren't allowed. The explanation says that the Podemos-Nozzer was the second booked correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes are 71; the supporters 5; the opponents are 46. Absence, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u37	Not accepted. The explanation is that Podemos-Nozzer was the sixth booked correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5, contrary to the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u38	Not accepted. The explanation will be put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65; the contrary, 1; Absence, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u39	It's accepted. The name of the law will be transferred to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 68; the votes given, 71; the opponents 70; the opponents 1, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u40	It's accepted. And thus it is approved of the Law of the Development of the Environment. Then there's a vote. Basque Group of Popular-Ciudadnos... Oh, Mrs Martínez, I'm sorry, the Vox-Mista team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u41	Thank you, Madam President. As usual, the government parties reject all Vox's proposals for being only Vox's. In this case Vox submitted a total of 33 amendments to the Rural Development Bill, 25 to the article and eight to the explanatory memorandum. And not a single one has prospered, not a single one has deserved even his attention. They vote not on our approaches without even analysing them. It's his model of democracy. As you can understand, only your position is enough backing to reject your bill. But there are also more reasons. In fact, in all its laws they sin exactly the same: bold bet for being different from our country, from Spain; euskera and more euskera, gender perspective as a cross-cutting axis and creation of new chiringuitos, a bet without cracks for duplicity. In this particular case they have made a real leap in the void. They no longer speak of the Basque Autonomous Community, at all times they refer to this region with the term "country", without blush, giving in fact once again what it is not. National construction by the back door, but national construction at the end. Perhaps we are wrong in Vox, so we ask the Government and those who have passed this law. When, on repeated occasions, they speak of a country without specifically mentioning what they refer to, I ask them a question, I would like it to be answered: do they refer to Spain or the Basque Autonomous Community? That is one of the amendments we made in Vox, which specifically mentions which country, that is, we asked to include an exact reference to the territory to which they refer. I tell you that the only country we can allude to is Spain, because the Basque Autonomous Community is no country as much as you long for it, it is a community within a country. And this is something that is studied in geography at the most elementary level. On the other hand, I do not think it is necessary to recall the situation in our primary sector. Victims also of a rise in energy and raw materials prices, which promises to become their grave and which the Spanish Government continues to feed with its gift checks and pre-electoral patches. All the entrepreneurs in the sector have a rope around their necks. But you insist on policies that protect and benefit women in a special way, whether they be livestock, farmers or fishermen. Can't you really bet on the present and the future of the whole sector? Does a cattlewoman need more help than a man? Its duty as a government is to legislate for the benefit of the entire sector, without sectarianism. We must help the rural sector regardless of the gender they have, that is really fair and equitable. And the euskera thing is getting harder and harder to understand. That's how we take this language to the southernmost farm in the Basque Country. And we're still... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Fair and equitable. And the euskera thing is getting harder and harder to understand. Thus we take this language to the southernmost agricultural holding of the Basque Country, and we continue to make progress in the construction of a country. In fact, one wonders what their priority interest is: whether to make a language-based country or the rural development of this region, which is what this law should seek. We must prioritise the creation of an appropriate framework for the maintenance of farms, the survival of a fishing sector that barely manages to pay for diesel. These are the real problems of the citizen on foot, who is already fed up with so much euskaldunisation. These must be our priorities, because when the citizen pays his taxes, he is not required to pay it only to those who have B2, right? I doubt very much that the creation of the Basque Rural Development Network or that of the Agrarian and Food Council for Rural Development in Euskadi will help our people in the countryside. They certainly serve to feed a certain number of faithful and to fatten the list of unbreakable adhesions, but little more will help them. More chiringuitos, more duplicity, more unnecessary spending, but also more distance from this region with our country, with Spain. And we bet just the opposite. This country, Spain, needs policies for rural development throughout the country, designed in the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Equal rights, identical duties, similar opportunities, mutual support, collaboration and coordination. That's what we really bet on Vox. Finally, many reasons to vote other than for a bill that has been processed as if it were alien to the interests of many Basques. In Vox, we are ready to continue to defend a model of rural development that is equal, fair and national, radically different from what you have proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u42	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Miss Larre, representative of the popular team of Euscala-Cellanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u43	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, Members of Parliament, you know that the People's Party-Citizens were expecting something more from the Basque Rural Development Act, which we tabled a full amendment to the bill, because we consider it an attack on the outside powers the creation of the Lurralde society to control and manage in a somewhat sybilian way the work of the outside parliaments. But we have tabled 45 amendments; we have accepted 21, we have had four. We can say that we have contributed to the improvement of the final text. Rural development, for the People's Party-Citizens, is a commitment to improving the quality of life of people living and living in rural areas. Cities live on what our agricultural and livestock sector produces. In recent years, throughout the world, it has stopped supporting the small... the peoples, to focus all resources on the big cities, which have grown to the detriment of our peoples. Now, we are faced with the consequences of years of wrong policies. We understand that the recovery of the rural environment and the development of life in our peoples is a long-term bet. We had in our hand the golden opportunity to implement measures within the rural development law, to bet on bringing services of first necessity, so that the rural environment was an attractive medium. Our young people do not want that way for them; they prefer the urban environment, full of amenities and job opportunities. However, our obligation is to encourage the sectors that sustain humanity, which feed, continue to function, providing the services necessary to curb the rural exodus or, rather, to turn it around, because the rural exodus has already occurred a few years ago. In Euskadi, small farmers and farmers are at risk because of the difficulties they have to compete with large farmers, who can adjust prices more to the detriment of quality. Let us not forget that those who most protect our fields, our mountains, are the basritatras, who know our fields first hand, who care for them - on their own account - but not only for them; for them and for all of us. Control of outside work through Lurralde means that we have not been able to vote in favour of a rural development law which we considered very necessary to update. And that is why we abstained, but you know that our abstention is very critical, Mr Suso; although it is a abstention, we had to say that we fully understood that we had to develop and that the law of 98 had to be modernised in rural areas, but we really could have done something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Third point in theme list: "Cultural, Euskara, and the Companion of the Sports Committee, made on entering the professions of physical activity and of sports, and the suggestion of law of action. Discipline and final resolution. Vox-Misto. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Physical activity and sport have become a key element in our society. Over the last few years, there has been a strong transformation in the habits and customs of citizens. There is increased public awareness and awareness about maintenance, development and commitment to a healthy way of life. Disciplines such as medicine and psychology support the benefit of regular sports practice to our metabolism, both physically and psychologically. The social habits have undergone a remarkable transformation, and while in past decades the practice of sports was surrounded by the sphere of federal competition, today, physical activity has overflowed the federal field. This social transformation has also manifested itself with the... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the scope of federal competition. Today, physical activity has overflowed the federative field. This social transformation has also been manifested by the emergence of new disciplines, which have contributed to complementing the traditional sport offer. New social habits and the new multidisciplinary sports model require responses from administrations that offer guarantees for safe sports practice. Physical activity is a healthy practice if performed under strict professional control. Otherwise, physical exercise can lead to a focus of injuries that, properly supervised, can be avoided. The social transformation to which we have referred has had its impact on an earlier initiation and the impulse of physical activity, as a formula to promote active ageing. Sporting activity has now become a cross-cutting and intergenerational phenomenon, with an early initiation process, greater participation of women and the elderly. All this requires qualified professionals, with the capacity to adapt to the changes experienced and to the specific needs of each group. Intrusion has been a common practice in sport that we must banish. Trainers, trainers or monitors without qualifications and without the necessary training have exercised freely for decades. We therefore share the spirit of the proposal, and much of the letter, as we agree on the need to regulate the requirements for developing sport practice in a professional, diligent and safe manner. We must promote and encourage the practice of physical exercise, but its promotion and promotion must be carried out under conditions of maximum security. Unfortunately, the proposal includes absolutely disproportionate language requirements. The fourth article of the text states that in order to be able to carry out the work in the field of public services provided by the Administration, at least language training with a B2 profile must be accredited, and in its second additional provision establishes the obligation to carry out four-year language standardization plans. The requirement of B2 does not make distinctions or exceptions according to the sociolinguistic realities of each municipality. It simply requires the accreditation of a B2 language profile, regardless of sociology or citizen demand. We are faced with a new example of the obsession to extend the use of euskera in all areas through a disproportionate demand for it. As we have said in many speeches, all this responds to an exaggerated politicization of the language, which they consider to be an angular part of a process of national construction. The proposal sets out requirements for professional training in sport, but language requirements may result in the best professionals not being able to provide their services in the public sector - as is the case in other sectors of government. We would have liked to support this proposal, as we share the need to regulate professional requirements for the development of sports practice. But the demands in relation to the euskera largely distort the letter and spirit of this proposition. And that is why, unfortunately, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u46	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u47	Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are talking about the proposed Act on Access and Exercise of Physical Activity and Sport Teachers in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This bill, in the past legislature, was a bill. In some ways, it is a bill, a bill or a historic legislative initiative already in this House, because we have been talking about it for a long time since 2012 - or before even in electoral programs, logically political formations - but since 2012 as texts that were brought to Parliament, I say again, the past legislature was a bill. A bill in which my group worked with amendments; that a very important part was accepted - more than forty amendments, of the sixty-six that we presented. Although the bill did not become law definitively. It was almost ready, but in the end, well, I don't know, by the imponderables of the end of the legislature, because it certainly didn't take place. In this legislature, the bill, curiously became a bill. Proposed law that basically, which was basically the text worked on in the previous draft law. In that regard, the Basque Government left it to its parliamentary majority to present the proposal. And so, to save new reports, new mandatory opinions in the bills. And it would have been interesting to have also had in this bill, after the work that was done in the previous legislature, the report in this bill, the report of the COJUA. And in addition, we have seen necessary in some of the issues, because of the special characteristics - legal, technical, more complex, even administrative - of this text that we are going to adopt and that is going to be law in a few minutes. And we've seen it necessary. It has been a shortcoming and I think it was a mistake to have made it into a bill rather than a bill, because we had had time; it was basically already informed, I'm sure the government's administrative services would have done it quickly. But we did need some keys that until the end we had to go to the bar and go to the bully even to this very full. And we have seen it necessary that it would have been better to have formulated in that way. And because it has been drawn in this proposal of law, precisely it dealt with in the first item of today's agenda. It is precisely in the law that we have adopted today, the law on the elaboration of general rules, which set out a number of criteria. And this was a general rule that would of course require that legal, economic and administrative support from the Government services, because it would of course have helped us a great deal in parliamentary work. I have no doubt. But in any case, we have also had to address the study and analysis of this... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... I have no doubt that the Government would have helped us a great deal in the work of Parliament today. But, in any case, we have also had to address the study and analysis of this bill, and we have worked in the same way as we did in the previous bill of the last legislature, we have done so constructively. We have tabled 34 amendments, of which 17 have been accepted or negotiated, the rest are maintained, two of which we have withdrawn, and we have worked on this text, on this proposal, for the improvement of the text which will be of the parliamentary initiative, of the legislative initiative, which will be law shortly, of course, with proposals of a constructive nature and also with proposals of legislative clarity, of drafting, legal proposals of legal clarity, since it is a text, an eminently technical initiative in terms of the regulation of the sports professions which are described very well in the first title of the initiative, teacher, teacher of physical education, monitor, sports monitor, trainer, coach, director, sports director. And, of course, all this is based on a correct adaptation to the training and physical activity needs that require and that require a clear specialization, and, of course, a series of important knowledge and a series of professional attitudes and skills that we have no doubt about are needed and have been demanding for a long time. As I said before, it is a regulation that has been pending since several legislatures, because we also have to see that they are the vast majority of the autonomous communities that have long had a law such as this one of regulation of these characteristics, and it is a regulation demanded also in the fields related to the professional aspects of sport and physical activity. It is a law demanded in the university sphere, in the schools of professionals of physical activity and sport. Man, it is not so much demanded in the federative sphere, so we have to see and we have to be very attentive to the immediate development of this law, not only of the regulatory development of which... to which I will refer briefly, but to the development of institutions, to institutional development, to the normal relations between the world, among the constellations of sport, right? Let us therefore hope that the Basque Government will, of course, work for a good coexistence in this respect, I say again, it is a technical law, but it can be a law that will surely have its problems and develop concerns. (?) of the Basque Government must ensure a good coexistence between federations, between professionals in this case, and between administrations. We will, of course, be awaiting that role which the Basque Government has attributed and which it will have attributed after the adoption of this law. It seems to be a relatively short and very specific law proposal for the exercise of the sports professions: 23 articles and then 23 others..., curiously 23 articles and 23 provisions come out at the end of the final order of the proposal, and (?) They're going to be passed as a law. Interestingly, 23 articles and 23 provisions have been very necessary, and above all, through additional provisions, form a series of exceptions or a series of nuances, a series of issues parallel to what is the proper management of the legal text. It is also a curious law that will be analysed in the legal or legislative field by this organization of articles and provisions. But, in any case, we do want to highlight, and that is part of our amendments, which employs five of (?) are in the linguistic obsession, because I say again, this is a draft law, it is a proposal for a technical law, that is, the linguistic was already guaranteed, is already guaranteed by another regulation, by the current general regulation, the regulation that we already know affects all areas, and let us say nothing to the activities that are part of the public services. That is, and five of these articles are also chaired by the need for that language pressure again. The (?) we see in almost all the laws, it seems a mantra, a guiding axis the fact that on technical issues we must continue to press and continue to force certain debates. Moreover, it is not necessary, since everything that is in the field of public services is already regulated by other rules, regulations and laws of standardization, or laws of public administrations, or decrees in relation, or laws of consumers and users; that is, it is already regulated, it is already regulated, but it was intended to be brought into article five, in article 14 l, I say in the article of the definitive text of what is going to be law, in article five, in article 14 l, in article 18.5, in the first additional provision, in the sixth additional provision. These are leftovers, i.e., recharge the law, which is eminently technical. They reload it, because these issues are already guaranteed, and they want to force themselves. It has also been intended to condition individuals and private services of physical activity and sport, and that is again a pressure, a pressure that, of course, we from the Popular-Citizens group do not share in relation to the linguistic requirement, in this case of the professions and access to the sports professions, and to which we partially oppose in this law, we oppose this linguistic obsession in relation to the draft law that we are seeing. It is a pity that the sanctioning regime excludes the punishment of the duties of the Euskaldunizzar websites, which mainly affect private entities. It is a good thing that in this sanctioning regime, which we have been able to agree on, because it was not in the proposal for an initial law, and that thanks to the amendments we have been able to agree, because we have organized, but in any case, these issues are excluded from the sanctioning regime, and I say again that less evil. Yes, I do, we do urge the Government to develop regulations as soon as possible, Mr. Counsellor, to ensure the effectiveness of the rule and the professional management character it has and to accelerate this important development. We've seen that other projects... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the effectiveness of the standard and the nature of professional management it has, and accelerate this important development. We have seen that other legislative projects or initiatives sleep the dream of the righteous in relation to normative development, to regulatory development, to the commitments adopted by this law. Thus, we need to develop Article 15.2 in relation to first aid training accreditations. In additional provision 3(3), the fourth additional provision, provision 11, paragraph 12, the second transitional provision. Some of them, talking about relief workers' adaptation courses, for example. In addition, there are a number of very clear commitments which we of course urge urgently to be taken in relation to the formative actions of the seventh additional provision and the disabling of deadlines to certify the formation of the ninth additional provision. That is, there is a job here that the Government has to put the batteries, because it cannot be that we are years and years without a normative development, without a regulatory development, as we see, as unfortunately, in other laws, and in this case which also affect its department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u48	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u49	Madam President, I'm done. We will vote in favour of our amendments and against the amended articles, and we will vote in favour of the rest of the articles on this issue. It seems to me that the legal services have already passed him a reservation of amended articles, in order to vote separately from the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Angulo, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, that's how it goes. Few laws will be as transcendental as the one we are debating today. And although it is registered with the Committee on Culture, the fact is that it touches on such important aspects as health, education or access to the world of work. Its implications go far beyond what might appear at first sight, and it has become particularly relevant to us the two axes, the fundamental axes that we have given it, and which are that of equality and inclusion. When the passage of this bill began again last year, our parliamentary group started with a very clear premise: the need for regulation of the professions of physical activity and sport. We know that there are about 20,000, some more, people who are currently engaged in this field in Euskadi, and have been waiting for this law for years. This has been made known to us by each and every one of the representatives who have come to the committee. This need was also quite evident and well demonstrated in the adoption in 2016 of a report analysing the reality of the sector in our autonomous community. And on the basis of this reality, we in our parliamentary group set ourselves two objectives. The first has to do with the professionalisation of the sector and the creation of the appropriate guarantees for this. In this respect, we consider it essential to start from a complete list of professions in the field of sport. Therefore, we were planning to open the fan to certain professional categories that have remained out, and we still don't know why. The initial law proposal focused on four categories: monitor or monitor, coach, coach, teacher, teacher and sports director. We wanted to add to these categories that of preparer and physical preparer as a specific category in line with what most of the laws of our environment foresee, as well as the demands of professionals. We also include the professional category of manager or manager of sports facilities in physical activity and sport. These categories were finally unable to enter and have remained out. We also try to focus on the different ways of accrediting training, seeking a balance between the qualification requirement and the assessment of professional experience gained over the years. Always under the premise of ensuring proper training. It is a reality that there is an underqualification of professionals. However, great care must be taken not to fall into the title, which, in addition to not necessarily guaranteeing knowledge, often leaves the socio-economically most vulnerable people on the road. Finally, this law expressly incorporates what is already provided for in the current labour legislation: the recognition of experience and non-formal learning as a means of accrediting the knowledge necessary to exercise the professions of physical activity and sport. Finally, we will hardly talk about professionalisation unless we tackle the precarious work that these people who are engaged in this sector are dragged into. And it is that the mere requirement of qualification will not avoid job insecurity, we have plenty of examples of overqualified workers in other areas which, however, have poor working conditions. For this reason, we modestly include a provision to ensure adequate working conditions and to avoid over-exploitation and exhaustion of people through, among other measures, the granting of specific periods of change of activity involving physical or mental rest for workers. In this line, with the dual objective of ensuring the well-being of professionals, and also the well-being of users, we include the establishment of user ratios per professional based on criteria of security and citizen care. This, in our view, should include the proper professionalization of physical activity and sport. But I also said before that our amendments were pursuing two objectives. The first was professionalization, and the second was the fight against inequalities. Inequalities that are especially alarming in the world of sport and that have many faces, and also many people affected. We have therefore considered it essential to focus on inclusion. And it is that we often forget about the transformative capacity of physical activity and sport in society. A society cannot be called inclusive if different social groups are not reflected in it. Consequently, in the present law we have wanted to reflect the plurality of our society, focusing on people who require special attention. Inclusion, understood in the broadest sense, with explicit mention of persons with functional diversity. But we're going beyond that, too. We understand that the sport physical activity of looking at the most vulnerable people, meeting the specific needs arising from their situation and removing the barriers that prevent their full and effective participation in society on equal terms with other people... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... derived from their situation, and remove barriers that prevent their full and effective participation in society on equal terms with others. In short, we understood that in this law it was crucial to expressly recognize the right to inclusion in the professions of physical activity and sport, and to appeal to the ability of sport to contribute to this full inclusion, recognizing its potential to promote social cohesion. In particular, we were betting on measures which, on the one hand, were specific compulsory training in the field of inclusion, which has been collected, and, on the other hand, the creation of a profession, which was that of a technician or technician in inclusion, which has not been collected. In this quest to combat inequalities in sport, we could not forget the need to continue to move towards effective equality between men and women. Unfortunately, there is an indisputable fact, which in the sports field is very masculinized, and, in fact, the 2016 report speaks of a masculinized reality in all professions. And on this basis we have wanted to include in this law a number of amendments, in order to provide it with greater guarantees to remove the obstacles that perpetuate gender inequalities. We have succeeded in introducing into the law the necessary acquisition of competences in co-education and prevention of sexual violence, as well as preventive measures, which end the informality of selection processes in federations and sports clubs to ensure the effective presence of women, both in sports practice and in the management of clubs and federations. And also, to establish guarantees that women can be mothers without having to stop being sportsmen, favoring reconciliation and reincorporation into sports activity after pregnancy. The most (...) aspect of gender inequalities is manifested through violence. In the field of sports we have also registered amendments on this issue in the law, but it seemed to us very necessary to record the obligation to present a certificate of sexual offences when there are minors, or when one of these minors is the recipient of the service provided, in order to prove the lack or existence of sexual offences as a prerequisite for the exercise of the profession. Inequalities in sport have also reached the federal level. In this respect, we have tried, with our amendments, to remove the obstacles that exist for those professionals who are not linked to federations, while at the same time allowing the survival of approaches and modalities outside the federative framework. Fundamentally, our commitment has been to ensure a comprehensive, public, universal and freely available training offer on all routes, as well as to avoid any form of discrimination towards training obtained in non-federal centres. In order to counter this, we have imposed a ban on the requirement of federal license to access official academic training or to access sports professions outside the scope of federations. In linguistic matters, we have lived throughout the sessions of the presentation one of the most intense debates in this law, and from the very beginning our position has been to guarantee the linguistic rights of the citizenry, based on the sociolinguistic reality. At first, an article setting out the requirement of profile B2 for all cases and without nuances was put forward in the text, and it was - in our view - a disproportionate measure that was not in line with reality. In this sense, there was a drafting proposal to which we moved to the paper, which already emphasized the need to adapt the profile requirement to the socio-linguistic reality of each area in which the public service is to be provided; this situation had remained outside the article. It is that, in the 1980s, sociolinguistic indices of compulsory compliance were agreed, now in force according to Decree 86/1997; dynamic indices that are adapting over time and have been increasing, as it cannot be otherwise. This drafting alternative has been discarded, despite the fact that it was in line with the literal and valid expression for decades, and has finally been rectified and ended with an ambiguous wording for each municipality to follow the independent path, instead of respecting the mandatory compliance rates and combining it with the principle of the language of demand service of the different actions. In any case, it has been a very illustrative debate on the need for a new consensus on the decree of linguistic profiles. Finally, it was essential for our group to take into account the possible negative consequences that this law could have, especially for the most vulnerable in socio-economic terms. I'm going to explain myself a little bit. It is clear that the law is going to increase the costs of sports services, and it has to be so if we want to have people trained and professionalized, with fair working conditions. However, the impact that this will have on rising prices for those sectors of the population with lower economic capacity cannot be ignored. It was therefore necessary to include specific mechanisms to ensure universal accessibility to sport. And in this regard, we also proposed two proposals - we had -: the annual implementation by the Basque Government of an economic impact study for the implementation of this Law. This proposal has indeed been taken up; in these studies it has finally been taken up. And among other issues, apart from the gender dimension, we will also look at the economic level and the impact on sports entities and users. And, with this same idea, we had another proposal, which aimed to articulate a system of economic aid and subsidies to mitigate the negative effects of this law, in line with what is being done in Barcelona, for example, where a very large amount of public money is allocated to ensure this universal access to physical activity. Unfortunately, this second axis has not been included in the final text, but we will be aware of the conclusions of the first to call for appropriate action if necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u52	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u53	Well, for all the lights and shadows we've seen, as you well know in the committee and well know in the paper, our vote at the end is going to be abstention. We believe that it could have been further; it could not have been. Anyway, thanking both Mr Pastor, Mrs Molina or Mrs Ubera, I always think it has been a very interesting debate that has been in the paper; I liked it very much...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours. [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u55	Good morning, President. I promise to adjust to time. Sport and physical activity as a health front, a source of health, forgiveness, are being included in the agenda of public policies in all countries of the developed and emerging world. Given the significant health problems caused by physical inactivity and sedentary lifestyle in Euskadi, public administrations have implemented various programmes for the organization of physical activities aimed at making physically inactive people cease to be so, providing various guidance and support services. It is necessary that all physical activity promotion programmes have duly qualified professionals. This is what justifies the need for this law. The Constitutional Court has already stated in its decision 194/98 of 1 October that the Constitution itself contains a mandate for the public authorities to promote physical education and sport, and that such activities are, on the other hand, closely linked to health. Fortunately, they are not only a means for their maintenance, but also enable them to avoid the negative repercussions that may have on it an inadequate exercise of the various physical and sports activities. The text seeks to regulate the essential aspects of the exercise of certain professions specific to the field of physical activity and sport, expressly establishing what such professions are, determining the qualifications necessary for their exercise and assigning to each profession their corresponding functional scope. The present law conceives sport and physical activity in a broad sense, and contemplates the Basque sport phenomenon in all its manifestations, without restricting this concept to the officially recognized sport modalities and disciplines or to the world of pure competition. The law is not confined only to the sphere of competition or the federated sphere, but seeks to contemplate all the polychrome of sport and physical activity, in accordance with the European Charter of Sport of 92, encompassing all kinds of physical activities that, through organized or non-organized participation, aim at the expression or improvement of physical and psychological condition, the development of social relations or the achievement of competitive results at all levels. The professions regulated by this law cover a number of areas: education, recreation, competitive and management. And in each of these areas a profession has been recognized, except for the profession of Professor of Physical Education, which is already in itself a regulated and qualified profession. The other professions covered by this Act should only be regarded as regulated professions in accordance with Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. The registered profession is the profession for which official degrees of higher education are required, when this is established in a state norm with a status of law for reasons of general interest. On the contrary, the regulated profession is defined as the activity or group of professional activities or some of its modalities of exercise whose access or exercise is directly or indirectly subordinated to the possession of certain professional qualifications. Access to or exercise of the professions of physical activity is not subject to the possession of a higher education certificate, but to the accreditation of the corresponding professional qualifications. And these may be accredited through academic degrees at different levels, as well as through other degrees, such as certificates of professionality of an official nature that result from the law in force at each time. The growing interest in the practice of adventure, risk or natural sports, or the same phenomenon of the proliferation of public and private sports centres, has fuelled an important supply and demand for professionals that requires urgent regulation. And that is why we have tried to do so with this bill, which, as has been said here in other speeches, already has several legislatures without ending and, fortunately, will do so today. In this policy initiative, we believe that the adequacy of those principles is sufficiently justified, and we must make a fundamental reference to the principle of necessity, since the law is justified by a reason of general interest, which is the protection of the health and safety of citizens. And the law pays special attention to transitional law. Any legislative change, and especially those laws that discipline for the first time, such as this, the access and exercise of a profession, raise transitional problems. Thus, the law is respectful of the rights of those who, upon their entry into force, are developing professions subject to this legal regulation, without the qualification required by this law. Mechanisms for their progressive and non-traumatic implementation have been envisaged, and situations of lack of qualified professionals who can meet the demand of sports service providers have been foreseen. Therefore, for the purposes of this Law, the provision of services of the professions of physical activity and sport, regulated in it on remuneration, is considered professional exercise, and activities carried out in the context of voluntary, friendly, family or similar relations are expressly excluded. In any case, we have found ourselves studying this law with great difficulty in the implementation of the resolutions established by the law, which we believe have been largely resolved. It was also necessary to clarify the contents and the qualifications. And I believe that we have been able to meet many of the demands of the various groups, so from the Socialist Group we can say that we are satisfied with the work done and the result achieved. And I do not want to end without expressing my gratitude to Mr Barrio, Mr Angulo, Mrs Ubera, for her attitude and willingness to facilitate discussions and achieve the outcome of a law that we believe will be adopted with a very broad consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u56	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u57	Good morning, everyone. [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u58	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Zupiria, today I think it's a day to celebrate. For the first time, after ten years, this plan of law was introduced into this house in 2012, and this law has been discussed in the business of the physical and sports professions. And, well, we're finally going to accept the law frame. From beginning to end, the process has been very complex, even this phase of the end, and it has not been easy. But, well, I'll admit that because we'll agree with him, the critical assent. We thought we'd made it because of the work we'd been inserting improvements, even if we wanted to... Don't include as many improvements as you want. And we will also assent to the fact that the agents of the field of sports have asked us to do so, and that there is time, as in the rest of the contests, to start orderly. The sporting professionals might be on the level of professionals in the rest of the world, because, even if they were sports researchers, they might be able to participate in sports, and anybody can do it. And that's not true. The law has not remained as we would have it, it is not a very good law. But in this case it is better to have a bad law than a worse law, and it is better to have a law than to have no laws. The result is very salty. I'm trying to remember that in 2016-20 of this legislation, we've finished the work. There were only two tramites left. During this 2020-2024 legislation, the cultivated document was introduced by groups supporting the government, except for a piece of −. We offered our honesty to present this document to all the cultivated groups. It didn't mean to, and, well, it didn't seem very neat how this bill was introduced. But instead of blinding it, we preferred to continue to improve the law and continue to contribute. And that's what we tried the whole process. Yes, we've tried to renew the view that has already been aged in some things. We didn't get 100%. But, well... For we must remember, that the lawyer who wrote this document in its original, has written the foundation of the law of the rest of the community. Then it is true that every community has adapted them to its own reality, and it is true that every community (... that they have made their contribution. But time has passed, and we have seen how complex this law is to develop, and what consequences it can produce. And it seems to me that even these teachings ought to be included in the process. And, well, we've had a chance to see all that. And yet, with the contributions we have made, we have got the views that were not in all other communities, or I will explain in what manner they contribute; but we have managed to insert what was not in the rest, and to give our distinction to this law. We must also remember, and this has not been accomplished, but the degrees and criteria which are now established in Europe within the scope of the European jurisdictions, well, we have attempted to contribute in this sense, in determining the classifications and ocupations of prophecies, and the arrangement of new inclinations. We have not succeeded, but, well, we think we may perhaps have a moment farther on in changing the law which we are to be obliged to-day by a law which might force us or oblige other marks of laws which might possibly come to us; this may also happen. Besides, it seems to us more logical to regulate the occupation and the work-fields than the prophecies which are now derived from Europe. But, well, because at last professionals are somehow determined in the rules of education and profession. Today's law, in the sports field, in order to regulate the occupations, the black economy in the sport field, the prefect, the intrustism can be a step to solve the deficit quality. It may be a step if he actually gets in, and he doesn't stay in the drawer, and we hope he does. And in conclusion, as everyone does, I'd like to remark what the EH has contributed to the law, and what we've tried to improve the law. First of all, we've managed to get the preparation plan for the law development, where it's supposed to be regular, and if there's a prevarication... Because it's necessary in the largest zone. And what is this area? Well, this is the region of gyms and sports grounds. Because there's a lot of sub-contradiction here, and there, you have to have a preparation plan. And so we were asked. It was their fear that the workers would be careful not to fall on the workers, and that they would take care not to do so much as their companies would do, and go down to them. And that's why we've driven in the middle of a year, and in the year after the power break in, the Eusk0 will determine a plan for developing this law that will have a line of homologization and preparation every year a row of fibres. And it's very important to complete the plan. It's important to make that plan with the public centers, with the public schools of sports and profession, and this is also recorded. Also, to ensure the homologisation of physical activities and professional professionals in the field of sport, the euscal schools of sport are to advise corporations and institutions. Their preparations are also taken up in their plans, and this is important, so that public care, continuity, and protection should be developed by companies and associations. We also have to respect workers' time associations. They are therefore secured in order that the workers may do the transition and the springs as they ought. And this is very important. We have also included the measures of the equality of women and men with the initiative of the EH Collectors. And among these measurements, the delegation of women and salary... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the measure of elevation. And among these precautions, the representative of the women to increase their presence in physical and sports professions. The profession of the field of sports is also regulated, not as we would, but as we would, by a step. Public services are also defined the criteria of language for dealing with physical and professions, so that they may guarantee the users' language rights. And in the public network and in the private network with the director of sporting hands, he'll have to prepare and start a four-year-old plan with his budget to concentrate on euphorizing. It takes a step to penetrate the quality of the sports school, for the professors of the body's education will have the power to act as educators, co-ordination, planning, evaluation, administration, and continuing. And this is very important because unfortunately, in minors, there are often fewer forms, and we need to guarantee quality. Above all, in order to act in professional activities, health problems, or situations, and to prevent their health from being compromised, it is necessary to check the degree of medical activity and sports science. And the point which I shall now remark here, EAE, we shall have what is not in all other communities. The law is given by both sports centers of −publi and privates, who have more than three full jobs or officers of unlimited employment, they must be a sporting director of the classification specified by the law. And in cases above five monitors or coaches, whatever the standard of contractation, it must be a technical director. Because usually there will be a great predominance in them. So if there's a superior technician, being a professional, it'll help to plan things properly, evaluate and guarantee quality. To do the transition properly, as Mr. Pastor has said, this is very important, so we've even held time to force the law. For we have seen what was done in all other commonwealths, a time was agreed, but the periods were not followed and prolonged afterwards. So this is important, too. We would have preferred not to rule the volunteer field in this law. It is true that it only touches the formation, and does not now change the pattern of the frame. Even the management and profession of sports has not been regulated as we pleased, but it takes a step. In short, what we have attempted is not only to establish duties, but to establish means and guarantees in order to force the law, not to stay in the drawer, and open the door to regulate and regularize the sports field. Instead of relying on the fear of security, we are always determined to have our own active society, that society should be an active Basque, healthy, and that is a very important law. And finally, thank you for all the representatives of the team we've been working together. Ms. Molina, Passor, Mr. Angulo, Mr. Barriio. And I'd like to thank you especially, for they've done a tremendous amount of work in translations to combine the eucalyptic and youthful texts, because they were different, and often the meaning didn't agree. The Irabic and Mercheri, the scientist María, the legal field. In the end, because we've finally seen that the team work and the results in the collaborative mode are better, and that we've managed to improve the document and improve the plan of the law. Now, Mr. Zupiria, thank you also for having a great deal of attitude and consent from the section and from the manager of sports. And now it's in your hands. We'll try to keep track of this, but we'll develop this law and develop it as we should. It's very important for the sports field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. They say that the third one is defeated, and that with time and patience science is acquired. I think it is a good summary to explain the process that the law on access to and exercise of professions of physical activity and sport has had since it first came to this House, and that we finally approved today. Despite the need and the different attempts, the sector was orphaned by regulation. But as of today you will have a framework that respects, recognizes and protects your professionals. In sport many of the forces of the formations are overlapped, some come from the federations, others from the Vocational Training, others from the universities, and all covet a common play area. And it is very complicated to define the areas of work well. We and we have worked in the best possible way and have taken account of the sector until the very last moment. We have achieved a law that guarantees the health and safety of practitioners, protects their professionals and offers quality sport. So we welcome this, and above all we welcome the sector that has been waiting for this regulation for too long, too long. Text, which has been agreed on among all the groups, even if it's not everybody's vote will vote in favor of the professor of the educational body, the sports monitor, the coach and the sports director's callings. This is only the professions that have the right effect on the sportsmen's health and security. Thus he who has been working for years will be able to give shelter to those who work now, and to those who come into the future through official traditions or professionalisms. This adaptation will be effected with flexibility and progressiveity, the first of January 2026... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... Through an official professional certificate. This adaptation will be effected with flexibility and progressiveity, allowing the first of January 2026 to be able to verify the results of all the persons themselves. Without the courage to repeat myself and because everything is already said, I would like to highlight some important aspects of this law. It requires first aid training, takes into account virtual platforms and new technologies that are also present in the world of sport and, of course, addresses gender inclusion and perspective. That is, it goes in the direction of the society we want, a society with healthy, active and protected people, with trained and trained professionals, with quality employment and equal opportunities. Because in sport it is important how, how it is done and how it is monitored, because only then will we know how it affects us, whether positively or negatively. For our group, therefore, it is important that people who work on a voluntary basis also have the right qualification to carry out their task, because working without pay, altruistic though it is, keeps the precariousness in sport. Thus, this requirement will encourage the professionalization of the sector, reduce the excessive presence of volunteerism and eliminate intrusiveness. The law will offer us a new stage for 20,000 professionals in Basques, a more orderly stage, because many of them have no training or social training to fulfill their duties. Now that I have mentioned it here, and in a partial manner, I should like to have it mentioned myself: by this text, to give value to the normalization of the euphora, which is made by the public, because it forces the guarantee of the official language they want to use. And since the law enters into force, it makes it easier to make up for the professionals who begin to work. That's a normalization that fits the language of the government with politics and a plan to promote to the support of the sport. The purpose of this plan is to promote the use of the euphoria between the minors of sport, between the coach and the arbitrators. It's a sport to get out of class, but it's also the best opportunity for grown-ups who have the right to support their services. Language is an instrument to continue to move forward in the guarantee of rights, in order to be able to go through the rest of life, even though some of them do it. We therefore insist on the importance of this article, because the language of social cohesion and of citizens is favorable to rights. Despite being the proponents of the law, we presented with the Basque Socialists 40 constructive amendments, with the sincere intention of adding and improving the original initiative, including the demands that the agents of the sector have been sending us throughout this long process. And that is how we have worked from our group, with the will to agree and putting the full attention in the sector. Because we have good professionals, great training offer and quality and now that whole ecosystem will be more orderly and based on criteria of professionalism and safety. With the adoption of this law today we take a step forward to improve the work landscape of these professionals and the people who practice, since 66% of the population practice some physical activity and 77% are interested or interested in sport in all its forms. These are rising percentages. And, therefore, we arrived in time with a new law to respond to a new scenario. And, finally, I would also like to thank Mr Barrio, Mr Angulo, even if I am not going to vote in favour, Mr Pastor and Mrs Ubera for the forms and harmony with which we have worked. Also to the department headed by Mr. Zupiria and the director of sports, Mr. Redondo, for his dedication. And, of course, also thank you for the work that has been done by both lawyer Zelai Nicolas and each and every one of the services in this House. It's not an easy law. In fact, it's quite the opposite, it's rather complex. But they and they have made it easier. Just así que, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Passing on the answering shift, Misto's gone. 'Essalka Popular-Ciudados mustn't speak.' Not even Podemus together. Not even Socialists. Not even EH Collect. Eubertarians... After the discussion, we'll have the vote. First, technical corrections have been distributed. And if he has no opposition, he is accepted. They'll vote together Podemos-Nozzer by the articles of the judgment reserved by the Animal Groups: 97, 97, 98, 131, 101, 103, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 121, 126, 126, 126, 126, 1727, 128, 130, 1331, 1334, 1334, 1336, 1336, 136, 140 and 141. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5, contrary to the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u62	They weren't allowed. They'll go to the vote at once by the articles of repudiation reserved by the Basque Groups of Populara-Ciudadans: 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 26, 28, 30, 31, and 33. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5, 5; contrary, 65; abstaining, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u63	They weren't allowed. The article, at the same time, is placed at the vote, the first additional regulations, the second transient regulation, the fourth paragraph, the second paragraph of the third transient regulation, the fourth transient and sixth transient regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes given, 71; the supporters 60; the opponents are 6,6; Abstations, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u64	They're approved. The rest of the articles and regulations of the judgment which have been corrected at the same time are submitted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65; the contrary, 1; Absence, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u65	They're approved. In one place, the fifth, 14. The sixth, 18th articles, and the second additional regulation, of a judgment which has not been corrected. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes given, 71; the supporters 60; the opponents are 6,6; Abstations, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u66	They're approved. The other articles and regulations of judgment, which have not been corrected, are at once submitted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65; the contrary, 1; Absence, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u67	They're approved. They are put to the vote, at the same time, the explanation and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65; the contrary, 1; Absence, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u68	The law of entering the professions of physical activity and of sports is thus acknowledged. Forth point on the theme list: "The illustration of the development and innovation of astronomy, made on the law proposal about protecting domestic animals. Discipline and final resolution. Going to the teams' turn, Mistto-Vox must not speak. The representative of the Basque Popula Popula-Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, explicación de voto... together the representative of the Podemos-Nodemos, Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u69	Thank you, ma'am. My turn came in just a moment. Well, in the end, we made it, we turned it around. We've turned around to protect animals, to protect domestic animals, the law proposition given to us by party members who support the government. It wasn't easy, but in the end, with all of us, we've got the animal societies. This was proposed in the preceding legislation: a law to protect domestic animals was discussed which we proposed together to the Podemos-Euerda Unidas. At that time, even with the sects now supported by the Government, the EAJ and the Socialist Party succeeded. But the legislature was over, and it was exhausted, and it could not be voted; it could not at length be admitted. And so, in this new legislation, the sects that support the Government have brought back the proposition. But they've brought us another very different proposition. In the current legislature, in which, it is no coincidence, we find a government that has the absolute majority, the support of the absolute parliamentary majority, decided to mutilate the law that had been agreed... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it is no coincidence, we find a government that has the absolute majority, the support of the absolute parliamentary majority, decided to mutilate the law that had been agreed the previous legislature with our parliamentary group to turn it into a law of pets, that only protects dogs, cats and ferrets, and that abandoned to its fate domestic animals such as horses, donkeys, goats. And it was, moreover, and became a law, a proposal for a law even less protective than in the previous law of 1993. In any case, as I have already mentioned, we have managed to give everyone a 180-degree turn to this law, so that it would be a little more similar to that law that was agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita with the parties that support the Basque Government in the last parliamentary term. We have achieved that of a total of 77 amendments tabled by our group, approximately half of them have been approved or had sex. Among the most notable improvements, in general, I would like to highlight some. It has therefore been agreed that any reference to the firing of the pychoon should be deleted from the text. It has also been achieved that the protection of animals is not only for pet animals - i.e. dogs, cats and ferrets - but also to extend protection to domestic animals, such as sheep, horses, goats, etc. Thus, not only cases of abandonment or cruelty to dogs or cats may be reported, but other animals such as these will also be punished for being abused. I should like to emphasize them; I would like to make a special mention of them. On the one hand, it is considered a very serious breach of rule that animals should be connected or immovable in a permanent manner. And the regulations of protecting the felinous colonies within the city are also established, and the associations which are for the protection of these colonies are also protected by the rights of these associations. But there are many other things, which we would have, those we thought necessary, which we did not succeed, we did not succeed in inserting so many important things into this proposition. In this sense, hunting or ranch dogs don't protect themselves like homes. They're dogs, but they'll have fewer rights, and their owners won't have to obey the law. Growing and selling is possible, for instance, though not in the zoological cores of the ego, as is the case with others, and they may be abandoned for a longer time. Nor have we been able to incorporate the concept of sentient beings into this law. This definition of animals as sentient beings is reflected in article 333.bis of the Civil Code, and this gives them greater legal coverage by not being regarded as mere objects or goods, but as sentient beings; they have more rights. Anyway... And yet, the law, this law, our Basque law, what it has chosen is the term sensitive animals. But this concept may not have the legal coverage offered by the Civil Code to the concept of sentient beings. Nor have we managed to remove the urban plague figure. It is a definition that is not in any autonomous law that is of protection of animals, and that can also be the way to exterminate, for example, the doves of a city because they generally damage urban furniture. In this sense, it is true that we have not succeeded in eliminating this concept, but we have managed to ensure that only measures are taken against these "pests" in the event that the damaged buildings are classified as protected, and that, in addition - we have also managed to - opt instead of sacrifice for techniques of capture, sterilization and return. In short, this proposition has a great deal of improvement, but it is true that after a great deal of work and a somewhat insane negotiation, the initial text has been given a significant turn, a minimum of approach to text agreed on during the previous legislation, and the text that will be better than the law of 1993. That's why we, in this case today, are going to abstain. In conclusion, I would like to thank the animal societies who worked with us, especially with them and ours (... ) Because they will help us to spread the protection of the law. And I would like to say to them and to all others, that together we will either try or continue to work for the rights of animals, because they are more than objects for our enjoyment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u71	President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we update, modernise and give the future to animal protection, to its welfare and defense, to its best fit and relationship in the human environment. It has been a bit difficult for us to come to this moment, but, tenaciously, we have succeeded. Even if the animals concerned do not know, the pandemic, the end of the previous legislature, the difficulties in implementing the current one, have extended the desired time for their processing. An initiative that started legislatively in 2019, was resumed in 2021, and today will culminate. The processing of this bill has been extensively worked out and participated in... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it was resumed in 2021, and today will culminate. The processing of this bill has been extensively worked out and participated in. Two dozen appearances have been held, the numerous contributions received individually and collectively, and the 384 amendments tabled by the groups in this House confirm this. Of the 384 amendments, 251 have been accepted or negotiated, which gives the final text a unitary character, of high consensus, which we can foresee and affirm will be of great use to its recipients domestic animals. Ladies and gentlemen, the data we have indicate that the current number of animals living in households has been increasing for years. Currently, in the Basque Country there are more than 250,000 pets, having experienced a 50% growth in the last 12 years. Animal abandonment exceeds 3 %. 85% of Basque citizenship is opposed to ill-treatment and is committed to strengthening and improving animal care. These data and this reality increase human sensitivity in animal protection and welfare, and have raised the demands to illuminate this law. A protection that is being consolidated in many places in the world, in its institutions, also in the European Union, in Spain, in autonomous communities, in municipalities, and today in the Basque Country. In this law we serve sensitive beings, sentient beings, who deserve to be treated with respect, consideration and attention. A treatment that must be provided by its holders, by its caregivers, and by those who, for different functions and responsibilities, are related to them. Domestic animals have the right to protection, physical integrity, health care and care. To this end, people must move forward in our training, in our education, in our obligations, in the assumption of more commitments and responsibilities. This law wants to avoid abandonment, ill-treatment, whimsical mutilation, unregulated business. It wants to raise awareness among young people about these behaviors, it wants to make progress in the control and public identification of animals, it wants to provide universal care for domestic animals, whether of company, production or income, or of another nature that is not covered by specific regulations. The Act provides for aspects relating to food, hygiene, treatment, transport or trade in animals. In order to do so, the obligations of animal owners or managers and on prohibited conduct have been strengthened and clarified better. The law addresses public health, protection against stray or abandoned animals, punishment for such conduct, and how they should be dealt with in reception centres, prohibition of sacrifices, conditions for breeding, trade and training, regulation in shows or events, management of urban populations, protection of indigenous races. The law contains the relations between associations and the administration, and the creation of an inter-institutional council for animal welfare and protection, and this law establishes the measures of census, inspection and surveillance of pet animals and their traceability, as well as the type of sanctions against infringements thereof. The law makes a qualitative leap over the previous one of the 1990s, and obtains greater and better legal protection. Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who claim that the one who hurts an animal is a savage, that the one who treats them with cruelty cannot be a good person, and that until one has not loved an animal a part of the soul remains unawakened. I'll add that animals are good friends. They don't criticize, they don't ask questions, they're grateful, they're loyal, they're emotional, they're good communicators, they're light luggage, they don't contaminate the car, they don't mortgage on banks, they don't contribute to inflation, they're not obsessed with mobile, they're not afraid of hell or heaven, they don't eat without hunger, they don't drink without thirst, they don't talk without anything to say, like humans do. A few last words for this feline species, understood by some and misunderstood by others, as it happens in human habitat. The obligation of identification and registration is for all cats. That's how it is in the law, and that's how it's going to work. Those born after its entry into force must do so within two months, those already born when established in the regulatory development. I would like to add with knowledge of cause that the cat is a philosophical animal where he has them, tenacious in his own habits, fond of order and pulcritude, untenable towards the extravagant sentimentalism that offers you his friendship and rejects slavery, and that attending to him in these circumstances must also be of legislative interest. For them, for all animals, for all their virtues and contributions to the human environment, I consider and affirm that they deserve this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u72	Thank you, Mr Price. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Housevary, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, everybody. In a few minutes, we vote for the protection of domestic animals, and our team vote for them. So I'd like to explain the process that brought us here. It was actually a compound. As has been shown by other groups, the law from which we were supposed to proceed in the preceding legislation, though it was much alike in the form of the proposition presented by the United Podemos, was, as we have often alluded to. The most disturbing thing for our team was the change in the application area. For the specific law of the Mascots was introduced to us, and it had a narrower area than that which we have in force. However, it was at once evident that this was out of order, and was perfectly agreed with the law to restore the domestic field of application to animals. And maybe that step was the easiest one. From that point on, the task of tying different points of view on animal protection has been much more difficult. As to the protection of animals, sensibility, necessity, experience, and opinion are different; and from our party we have attempted to pay attention to them from the first, and to maintain respect for animals and their dignity. That's why, when he agreed to submit, we'd go over the contradictions, hire the involved operators, introduce the builder corrections, and try to negotiate by consistency... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We said we'd go up against the involved operators, introduce the builder corrections, and try to negotiate by consistency. We took it as a challenge to get a last text that would improve the current law. That's what we've been doing since then. And actually, it wasn't easy. The balance of opposite positions and interests is not easy, but this is often our work. In order to study the point of view and the necessity of society, and get the objectives planned to answer them. And in this law there are many views and interests produced; animals, the most common society for the preservation of animals, the societies of hunters, the cattle of cattle, and so on. It's a multi-pike theme for the animal protection. It's really complex. To try to respond to all these sensitivities, we have modified definitions, obligations, prohibitions, conditions of zoos, infringements and a long time. We have exchanged proposals, tables and more proposals and more tables, and we have made many contrasts with different agents to try to make it right. Obviously, it never rains to the liking of all, and we know in advance that all the collectives who have taken part in this process - whether they have appeared during the process or not - would expect more from the law, each from its own sphere. But that is precisely why we believe that we are adopting a good animal protection law. A balanced text. We have tabled 117 amendments, and most of them have been accepted or fucked. Thanks to these negotiations and small agreements we have managed to improve various aspects. As I said earlier, we have extended the scope of the law on the protection of pet animals to domestic animals. We have ensured the identification, registration and traceability of animals from their birth to their sale or sale in cases of loss or even slaughter. We have put in place means to prevent the abuse and abandonment of animals and to guarantee their safety and a dignified life. Also to promote respect for and consideration of animals through education and dissemination, and to improve inter-institutional coordination on animal protection among other issues. This law reconciles protection with the needs of some groups who need help from these animals to develop their activity. To this end, we have taken special care in the definition of auxiliary pet animals and have collected some exceptions so that they can carry out the task for which they have been trained and assist their holders in those tasks. That doesn't make the animal assistant a secondary animal. This doesn't leave them helpless. This does not mean that they can render ill treatments, or that they ought not to observe all the conditions established by the law. No way. They'll have to guard the health, safety and dignity of these animals. These exceptions merely respond to other realities, which are to be considered in the protection of animals. With these animals all the conditions which this law prescribes must be fulfilled, but only when they act in their activity will these conditions be able to adapt themselves, and to enable them to perform these helpers. In their growth, too, we have released the limits established by law, autoctonous races or precious genetic characters to protect them. But this will not bring back, that the owners of the assistant animals will be able to have as many combs as they please, and can do what they please with those young ones. The exceptions will be for punctual growth, and the conditions and limits of them will be fixed by treatment. A professional growth will only be allowed in zoological areas, but the owners who want to maintain the characteristics of the assistant animals will have the chance to do so without any secret trade, without damage to the professional growth areas and filling all the conditions of identification, registration, and attraction. As we have said, all these conditions and duties will be regulated by presents. Those who employ the protection of animals with these measures, who need animals for assistance in their activities, and those who cultivate them in their professional growth, have retained the necessity of all. And again, I repeat, it has been a fundamental criterion for us, for the health, safety, and dignity of animals. On the other hand, as we have considered these facts, we have met with another reality which has conditioned negotiation in a great measure. Pigeons and teams have been marked in this sense by our position and opinion in every moment before the law. For in the original text it was sometimes forbidden to keep up as it was in the present law, and in the end it was proposed to us to pull the pigeon out of the groups which support the government from the law. In our view, it was necessary for them to take this step. An activity such as pitching should not be covered by an animal protection law. If it is an activity linked to hunting, it does not fall within the scope of this law, since hunting is included in the chapter exemptions because it has its own regulation. If it is a sports activity, it should not be regulated in this law, but in others. Whatever it is, for Euskal Herria Bildu in this law does not take place, because, as we said at the beginning, we have tried to meet different demands by seeing if giving them fit into the law continues to guarantee respect for animals and their dignity. And in our opinion the pitcher shot clearly does not meet this premise. Upon receiving the proposal from the groups that support the Government to pull the pitcher out of the law, we made the necessary contrasts with different agents, who encouraged us to give the approval to it in exchange for this measure. And we tried to narrow down other points that seemed to us to be better, and we made the decision to support the law. It has not been a simple decision, but we believe it has been responsible. Having said that, I would like to thank the proposing parliamentary groups for their willingness to engage in dialogue and agreement throughout the whole process. Thank you especially to Mr Telleria and Mr Prieto. Also to the rest of the groups for their contributions. It is true that over the past two weeks the proposing groups have taken a number of decisions that have forced us to rethink our own, and have again plunged into a tide of contrasts, negotiations, but in our view it was necessary to improve the law and extend the agreement. And even though we would have appreciated other deadlines and another quietness to address some other issues, it was worth it. I would also like to thank the work and perseverance of the various actors who have made their contributions and who have helped us to see the clear-cuts behind each measure. To those who love hunting, to those who care for their flocks, to those who love animals, to those who raise them professionally, to those who fear them and to those who... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... of each measure. To those who love hunting, to those who care for their flocks, to those who love animals, to those who raise them professionally, to those who are afraid of them and to those who simply do not want to have them around, to all the people who have contributed to this process, I would like to thank them, because, although I must admit that it has been intense and hard, they have helped us to put ourselves in their place and try to balance those needs and viewpoints that are sometimes so different. Thank you very much. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u75	Madame Chair, President, chief of departments, good morning to all. I remember that now 30 years ago, as I was then in the Government, the one who was the Agriculture Councillor, my dear José Manuel Goikoetxea, commissioned me, at this time, to draft the law on animal protection that is still in force today. I would also like to remind you that I was able to attend the presentation that discussed it and that, after intensive work and especially by Mr Barreda, Mr Ormaetxea and Mr Intxaurraga, it was unanimously adopted. Today, after 30 years and after a nine-month internal tour in Parliament, we are presenting this new law, which has meant - at least for me, now from my vision as a parliamentarian - a complex work as long as the draft presented did not like it very much. And, of course, the groups have tried to fix it on the basis of amendments: 383 amendments. Studying them, dismembering them and discussing them has been a difficult job and, in some cases, a sudoku, to try to integrate them all, but we have come to the end. I would have liked the degree of agreement to have been even higher, but it's already very high. And that means that we have managed to pass a law without breaking the high consensus that came from the 93's, which also bodes well for a long time to this law that we will pass today. This is an issue on which everyone has an easy opinion and which, for the time being, has remained largely depoliticized. This made things much easier, but we ran the risk of creating another ditch more between the political options, which are already enough. And that could end up being a demolition. An animal protection law must have two clear aims in principle: to what animals it is dedicated and then to what it means to protect them. And that's what this law has done. To those, although in principle it may seem difficult, therefore, taken to the extreme, pets can be our family or friends, because human beings we do not cease to be animals and our family and friends are our company, they could have been, but we have decided to arrive quickly, with the exception, unanimously, of hunting, fishing and Taurino shows. By the way - and I am opening a small parenthesis here - I have seen that when this law had not yet been passed, a PNL has been introduced to abolish the bullfighting. And I think that this law would not have been the ideal forum for it, and not after it unanimously - after no one amended that paragraph - is kept out of the law. I'm closing the parenthesis. On the other hand, what it is to protect them, although always from an anthropocentric vision, is of complex realization, since in this society there are still those who regard all animals as objects against which any action can be taken, as if they were stones, while there are - and increasingly - those who humanize animals, pretending to equate the actions with them that we must have with our fellow humans. These extremes of seeing things aren't many, but there are. And in any case, what there is is a very divergent way of seeing animals from the human being. And if we add to that that we accuse each other of everything, we have a basis that, if we do not manage correctly, can lead us to a social conflict, which is what we must avoid. And that's what our group has at least tried to do at all times. It was not a matter of discerning whether one was right or the other was right. It was a matter of making a text that supported a clear majority of this Parliament, but which, above all, was comfortable for a majority of Basque society. It was a matter of making a law that was acceptable to a social majority and in which no parliamentary group or social group definitively marked the direction of the text. By putting numbers on the table, if Elkarrekin We have tabled 77 amendments, 40, 52% have been accepted or transacted; if the PP has submitted 114 amendments, 75, 66% have been accepted or transacted; and if Bildu has submitted 117 amendments, 98, 83% have been transacted. And all that, as I said, in a complex sudoku exercise, as many amendments focused on the same articles or sections of those articles. Only these numbers indicate the effort of agreement that we have made by the proponent groups of the project. And we will be able to blame whatever they want on the conclusion of the text, but never that we have not made an effort to agree. Another thing is that the vision of certain aspects reflected some amendments that did not allow the law to be the deposit of the opinion of a social majority. That I do not know exactly, either, but that through the years of working on the subject - and I already see that I have many - and listening to agents in the sector and to officials in the institutions, I do allow myself to know with some depth. Moreover - and we must not leave that out of the debate on the law - this will be largely managed by municipalities and parliaments, and their opinion is essential to address a text that does not make their work difficult or a text that is a leader in theory and impossible to apply. The protection of pets and domestic animals, the essential vocation of this law, is a controversial issue, constantly evolving and, as I have said, with visions of very difficult parts of society. Therefore, even though it was not an essential law of the legislative calendar, it had to be treated with care in order to no longer exalt the exhibition. As an example, we have not accepted the removal of subsidies to animal associations, because, according to some - and that is true, it is written - that money is dedicated to denouncing hunters, nor have we accepted that urban pests - as mentioned here - are not mentioned, as if such a name were a lack of respect for animals. Because the same thing that animal associations do a great job - which, by the way, relieves administrations of it - the concept of plague is a correct concept that is often confused, understanding that it is a derogatory term with some animals. But it's that the term goes the same way to pigeons as to rats, and what happens is that some people understand that plagues are rats, not pigeons. When both species are daughters of the same nature, and the two species are so animal... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... What happens is that some people understand that the plagues are the rats, not the pigeons. When both species are daughters of the same nature, and the two species are so animal, one as the other. Because sometimes, of course, we're talking from anthropocentrism, the same as some who like to treat animals as objects, and those who like to treat them as human beings, it's humans who decide that some animals should be cared for, and others don't care. And so animals, and so in their mission in nature and biodiversity, and as treatable as plague in this law or not plague, are pigeons, storks, seagulls, rats or cockroaches. Finally, and even if it goes unnoticed, this law creates a legal framework that will finally allow protection. And since it has not been mentioned here, I am impelled to do so, as Euskadi's genetic and ethnological heritage, the different indigenous races. A fundamental step to ensure the protection of races such as the pastor of Gorbea, the dog (...) of the inserts, the land cow. That they now sometimes grace us, but that they were an essential part of our country's economy, and that today they are an indissoluble part of our history and culture. In short, we show our joy for the broad consensus achieved, as well as the gratitude for the effort that Muriel Larrea, or David Soto, have sincerely dedicated to him, which I suppose he will be in San Marcial today. And especially the persevering Itxaso Etxebarria, who has managed with her work to be, in the end, a law more of them than the proposing groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. We're on our way to Podemos. Basque Socialists. Not EH Collect. And Eubertarians aren't. After the discussion, we'll have the vote. First of all, there's been a technical correction, and if there's no opposition, I agree. Accept. The Euscal, Popular-Ciudadnos, will be joined with the 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 71, 81, 89, 91, 95, 97, 100 and 109 corrections made on the articles of irication. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 6; in the contrary, 45; abscesssion, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u77	They weren't allowed. The Basque Team will be joined together by 6, 7, 8, 29, 31, 32, 33, 37, 41, 42, 42, 43, 72, 77, 85, 87,88, 90, 92, 94, 98, 111 corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; vows given, 71; in favour of 6; in the contrary, 6. Absences, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u78	They weren't allowed. They're going together to vote together, 119, 134, 144, 143, 1446, 144, 154, 1558, 158, 166, 167, 174, 174, 178, 178, 181, 182, 183, 1884, 188, 189's corrections made by the articles of repudiation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of 5; in the contrary, 46; Absences, 20; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u79	They weren't allowed. They're going together to vote together at 120, 122, 126, 1229, 130, 133, 136, 144, 153, 1559, 163, 165, 1668, and 1669 corrections on the articles of irication. It's a vote... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...163, 165, 1668 and 1669 corrections made in the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; votes given, 70; supporters 5, contrary, 65; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u80	So they didn't accept it. Next they vote together the articles and regulations of the judgment with which they have been corrected. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes given, 71; the supporters 60; the opponents are 0, 0; abstaining, 11; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u81	They're approved. The rest of the articles and regulations of the judgment that have not been corrected together are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65, 0; abstain, 6; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u82	They're approved. And finally, the explanation and the name of the law is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 65, 0; abstain, 6; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u83	They're approved. And thus it is permitted that the Law concerning the protection of domestic animals is preserved. Then there's a vote. Vox... vote. Mrs Martínnez, Vox-Mista, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. As you know, Vox's main reluctance to support a bill like the one that has been debated in this House today was an initial absolutely irrational treatment of animals that are used in kinegetic activities, initially presented as pets for use, when they really have little or nothing to do with it. It is also true that although our amendments have once again been rejected without even having been analysed, a regrettable exercise of democracy 2.0 in the Basque Parliament, something has been arranged by being able to support some of the amendments signed by the People's Party in the same direction that we...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u86	... We were. This, therefore, has helped to give greater legal certainty, for example, to hunters for whom it is necessary to go out to the countryside with dogs, animals that have nothing to do with those that we see in our streets and parks and that have a completely different activity. As often happens in these cases, each group has its own buts, its own ways of seeing and doing. But in general terms it is a bill that we consider reasonable, to which from Vox we see an insurmountable glue related to that model of united country that we defend and to which we want to walk. And, in this line, the only pet protection law that we would support would be, first of all, the state that would guarantee identical levels of protection for all animals wherever they are and the equal rights and duties of the persons holding that, something applicable to animal collection, training, breeding and sale centers. In fact, there is another issue that is also repeated in each bill relating to the creation of various entities, with indefinite budgets and duplicate functions, something that we in Vox do not consider and will never support. In this particular case, we do not see the raison d'être of the Interinstitutional Council for Animal Welfare and Protection and of the General Register of Company Animals in Euskadi, in this case especially unnecessary because there is already a national register with identical functions. We share the persecution of any kind of animal abuse that could be subjected to, whether it is abuse by action or abuse by omission. We believe that animal welfare must be a basic principle to be respected by everyone who has a pet. And we are convinced that without becoming human beings everyone deserves care, attention, dedication and affection as living beings that they are. It is currently in the process of the State pet protection bill. And we believe that this rule should be the one that guides others, starting from the fact that the division of powers so advises, even if it is contrary to our approaches. However, everything seems to indicate that it will be the opposite, that we are in danger of soon becoming a rosary without end of autonomous rules, each with its restrictions, with its sanctions, with its definitions and its political burden, as the most obvious of the draft state law, which, yes, can still undergo notable changes in its handling in Congress. That is why we believe that we should have waited first for this national law for all autonomy to hang from it. In short, our option has been to abstain because we consider the proliferation of autonomous laws and rules extremely dangerous each one with its particular bias, which generates confusion, does not help collaboration and coordination between regions and fosters the difference and inequality between Spaniards. But it is true that here and anywhere pets must be protected. It is also true that ill-treatment, clandestine fighting, misuse of pets, neglect, illegal trafficking must be pursued in the Basque Country. We think it's a good law, but we think we should have waited. Hence, we have had a abstaining position. And I also agree with Mr Telleria, it must have been a real sudoku to be able to accommodate so many amendments. And I would recommend that next time... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and I also agree with Mr. Telleria. It must have been a real sudoku to be able to fit so many amendments, and I would recommend that next time they also read some of VOX's ones, because I think they were a little in line with what both PP and others have agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u87	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u88	Thank you. We have voted in favour of the proposed opinion for the law on the protection of domestic animals, because it is true that every day people give a more privileged place to our pets, that growing universe of pets, but not just those of company, the hand of man has domesticated countless species. Bearing in mind that the number of pets surveyed in Euskadi is increasing, it is necessary and necessary to legislate on this issue, because although, as a general rule, there is a decent treatment for our domestic animals, there are still people who inflict suffering and ill-treatment on our companions. Therefore, we should, we knew that we should work to improve this proposal of law to protect beings who do not speak with words, but who often tell us more things than people. I myself – in these months we have spoken – those who know me know that I welcome and care for all the animals that cross my path and that need it: cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, turtles, everything. We also have to protect some species from man's hand, but for them today is not the day, today the already domesticated. Know that it is also important for us to take care of the balance of the system. No one gets caught by surprise if I talk about feline colonies. It has been a law in which countless associations that care for these colonies have been involved. We have many colonies of cats in our cities, and thanks to voluntary associations that use the ESC method, capture, sterilization and release, we can control that no more animals grow in an environment that is hostile to them. What may have caused us some doubt, since cats, and I'm going to talk about cats, feline colonies, hunt and may be a danger to other species, to the preservation of biodiversity, was the fact of feeding them on the basis of exceptions granted by municipalities to associations. We believe that cats are able to feed themselves, and that if they live in cities, it is because they find food. We present a battery of amendments, as has already been said, 114, 59 were accepted, 16 have been fucked. In the same way that we believe that, for example, associations dealing with the control of urban colonies are not directly responsible for each copy, but the municipal administration, we have also wanted to exclude hunting and fishing from this law, because we understand that they are under the umbrella of another law. We have created the formula thanks to the inclusion, the acceptance of the transaction of an amendment, of the auxiliary animal to include it in this law, because we know that a rescue dog may put its life at risk, but it is vital for the rescue of people who are in danger. And we also included in this... in this law we have participated in the inclusion of exceptions to the replacement of lines (?) genetics necessary to continue some activities, and above all, to preserve some species that may not be so attractive for their marketing, but which do say a lot about Basque culture and the relationship they have had with Euskadi over the centuries. We have therefore voted in favour. It is a law that has been improved, and as Mr Telleria has said, to which we have to thank for the willingness to accept our amendments, it is a law that protects animals and leaves no exception for animals that have always to be taken into account according to new uses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Number of points in theme list: "Mode, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors, and strengthened the first care in public health systems, and adapted to new times." Ms. Ubera, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u90	Good morning again. The proposal which we bring to-day was recorded in this house December 2020, and we brought it to the conference in May 2021. The majority of the people of this chamber, who had been in the first extremity of attention, repulsed the enterprise. Now, unfortunately, the situation is no better: The situation got worse. And therefore we have seen the need of re-entering the table, if it be ever more necessary than the moment and ever, because the situation has confirmed it, because the workers of health require it so, and the consequences of the defect of our present plan have shown us more clearly than ever. It's time to think, act, and make politics with long lights. If it's time for this someday, it's more than ever now, so that the first medical model that attention reflects may have the future, so it's time to act with long lights. The Covid pandemia has shown us that the first point of attention is to answer with efficiency. We are also considering that the first key of attention is to ensure access to the public health system and to direct the entire course, when our first attention does not work when hospital emergency works, and that the rest of our careers do not function efficiently and respond. So, for all that, it's very important. But above everything... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... operating and answering efficiently. So for all that, it's very important. But above all things, because we prove, that the fire of health, prevention, communal attention, and the same persistence are lost on paper, in empty words. I remember when we brought this initiative in 2021, and when I started the speech, it was as important as this initiative I was talking about at the beginning of my speech. And this assertion I would like to add to it two more adjectives this evening: necessary and urgent. This is the simple, important, necessary, and necessary initiative that we bring us to-day. In designing and planning politics, the initiative of today has two important ingredients to be considered. And what are these two elements? It's one to hear. To hear those who speak in the former row, to receive their contributions, to receive their recommendations, to receive the laborers, to the laborers, to the laborers, to the laborers, to the laborers, to the laborers, to the laborers. In fact, it's very important to consider the contribution of the members of the Osalome, the patients. I don't know if you know, but now the pharmaceuticals are putting it in, and that's the tendency. Second component, work. To do it as best possible, in the most imperfect manner. We have seen before, as a first example, four consequences of the collaborative form of work. Four laws and four yess. When it's in common and collaborating. Because this contributes to society, because it contributes to the advantage of the political institutions which are to be obtained in legitimateity, because it contributes to the development of these politics more easily. So it may be a good time to activate these two components, looking at the middle-term drawing of the health course page. For members of the community, for users, it would be important to know what this career page is, to know what is the future of the public health system. For seeing them in the legislature, in this house where their power is represented, the power of the people in this house which is superfluous, all together, with experts, with workers, with representatives of the unions, what they work, what they infer, and then to return to them, seems to us to be an indispensable exercise. Finally, we're sharing the diagnosis. Because we can have a diagnosis, it's clear that the groups that support the government have another diagnosis, probably the operators will have another, and it's important to share this diagnosis and identify the agreements. But it is important also to identify and to receive in writing what differences are. For the identification of the differences in progress is also essential. We think it's a very important exercise that we plan. Because the people and the workers of health can't follow their health homes without knowing what's going to happen with their first attention, without knowing what's going to happen with the Osar. Because what they see, at this moment, is very serious, because they see it close, because they see it reduce the schedules. Then they want to know, they want to know, and they need to get this with all their transparency. And I don't want to be a catastrophist today, but yesterday I'm talking to a professional at Osa, and he told me this is the end of the Osar. And I said, "I hope this isn't the end of the Osaderie, and I don't want this to end with the Osa. And at least we will do what is in our power so that it may not be so. They want to know what professional health, workers, citizens, what kind of equipment we're going to build in our first attention, whether professional or professional care, sanitary attention, social attention, and how they're going to work out of their first care together, or what kind of equipment they're going to be, what kind of equipment they're going to be, how we're going to get our first attention, how we're going to be able to learn and know how an organization that's going to be all the time and not just the first, not only the first, but also the first care, even the professional, the appreciation, the pre-reciative, the lack of health, and so forth. And when we have spoken much before, it is time for us to pass through words; though we are late, we shall be very late. I said it the other day, and I'll repeat it again today, first attention doesn't need words, first attention needs actions. And we don't think it's only a matter of intermediate investments, because if investment and finance don't come with any pretty ones, if they're not the right measures for politics and organization, there's no end to the investment, or the increase of investment, because it won't be efficient. So we need changes to the crisis, challenge, or choice that we have in our pretty hands. And the term you want to use, be a crisis, be an opportunity, be a challenge. It has often been discussed, and lately there has been much talk about the amount of a man's charges by the Medical Department. We also talk a lot about the biggest investments in the state in health. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we're not independent, what's that investment for? If that investment isn't focused on where it's supposed to be, we're not efficient. That's why politics have the importance they have, because we don't have the right policy, we'll go on with the usual problems. It has also become a habit in ours, when we have spoken and discussed it in the course of a long time, to disturb the concern of the affairs of our health, and to be careful enough... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... When we have spoken of this time, and have discussed the questions of our health, which are to be disturbed, to do otherwise, or to avoid trouble. Or, to say otherwise, that there are the same problems in the rest of the commonwealths of the Common-wealth, or that they are worse than we, or that there is a question at the level of Nations. But is this really useful for a government? Justice, is it effective for a government? Is it a sufficient argument to do other things with his care? To continue with the same politics? Or to make an attempt to jump on another level from where we are? We think that all that needs to be motivated to you when you're happy to be a pioneer again. To show you a more leader in the nation. To start making new policies. And above all, to change the ways in which politics are made, because what we plan here is another way of making politics, and I think we all have to confess. And I won't stay here any longer. I shall not repeat in the last discussions, which, during the past few years, have been repeated to us over and over again, and have been added to the table. Consequences of the prettiest of the decades: Be professional want, great provisional rates, and want of work to provide time for each patient, harder and more difficult access to health services, not planned generation change, loss of cohesion in health services, &c., etc., and so on. Today's discussion... and the initiative to put it into the vote is, as has been said, very simple. To restore the public medical health service, we are asking a report which will strengthen the first attention at the Medical Committee, give preparation, and adjust to new times, to form, to listen, play, and work, with the representatives of the local workmen, with the power of governing in the legislature, and the instruments which it gives us. And in the report we have mentioned, together with the consequences, we demand to receive and identify differences and agreements as far as the evaluation of the last decades is concerned, and what important privileges and undertakings would be for the coming ten o'clock. And we think it might be the right time for that to do so, and that is why the rule, 220, 221, and 222 give us a chance to do it. And, well, let's get this over with. We've seen that the rest of the teams made some corrections. Podemus makes precise measurements together. And, in our opinion, it is not the time for us to plan exact measures, because we do the exact measures you plan; we have often agreed about it, and we have brought the middle-class ones to a vote. For we think it is time, by this listening one another, to agree with the measures required by the agents, by the workmen. Then, on the other hand... And if our enterprise does not advance, then we shall certainly defend the proposition of Podemos, because we share our measures and measures which we shall have for our view. What does the government plan? The government allows us to do it in isolation, to do it on its own initiative. He says he's thinking about professionals. We know that's not how it is, but, well, we may lack information. Or maybe it's what's happened in the pandemonade, in a closed circle with the Sabin House professionals who'll be able to do that. And then, what we are proposing is, to bring these consequences to the legislature, that we may know the legislatures of communication, and afterwards to make contrasts, or to contribute to them. But that way. There's no choice here either for association or collaboration, and we see that it's not the one that planned. And, well, it's true, there hasn't been a deal, it's legitimate. There has been a chance of agreement in all four laws, there's no such thing as this, and what we'll do about it. That's the way it is. And P.P. does not see the power of the legislature, he does not see it, and he demands a plan of action to the Government. So today we'll lose another chance when it's more important than ever in health, first in mindfulness, the use of Osare, listening to each other, and the co-operation that's given in other parts of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u92	Yes, thank you. Of course, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida it is time, Mrs Ubera, to listen to the public health professionals, who understand that they are the best ones defending her. That is why we will support your motion. We are going to vote in favour, because what you are proposing today is that there be a presentation in this Parliament in which you can - I understand - pass, among others, precisely the public health professionals and professionals. We will support her in that regard. But we also know that the initiative was not going to come out; we are seeing the Basque Government's lack of receptivity in this matter. And, therefore, what we do is to put forward an amendment, not with any political content, not even with a political content extracted from our electoral programme, but with political content based on what we are precisely listening to those Basque public health professionals who have been proposing, for a long time, because they are not new things. And that's what... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...and those Basque public health professionals who have been posing, for a long time, because they're not new things. And that is what we put forward in our amendment, in our text. We have already said that more than once, we believe that the response that the Government must give must necessarily go by listening to these demands, because I do not believe that Osakidetza will disappear. Not that I don't believe it, I am convinced that Osakidetza is not going to disappear, because although, in fact, there are people who are working because they have interests in whether Osakidetza or public health does not disappear, but they do see their capacity to promote the field of private health reduced, fortunately, we also have many people who are working and are defending public health. What is clear to us is that the Basque Government has to recognize the problems that our public health has at the moment, and that it cannot respond to these problems by proposing to the citizen to adapt, which is what from those controversial statements that we have also talked about a few weeks ago the councilwoman deduced that the Government was doing, proposing to the population to adapt to these problems. What needs to be done is to take effective measures to solve structural problems in Osakidetza, which I believe can no longer be denied: lack of staff, insufficient and poorly managed budget, workload, lack of a clear model for primary care that lacks a specific budget that guarantees homogeneity and equality of care throughout the territory of Euskadi, and deterioration of the working conditions of a staff who has been working for a decade, a decade, denouncing the problems that are now evident to the public who suffer from their consequences. They are elements, in our view, that are weakening our public health and that cannot, of course, be hidden behind calls for cultural change. In some ways, a process against public health is being promoted, through a worsening of the service that ultimately leads a part of the citizenry to hire private insurance that, in addition to being unfair, will never guarantee the health care of people, which is something that - as everyone knows well in this country - only public health can guarantee. It is now the primary care that is suffering the most, by the model itself that has developed in recent years, in the last decade. And the government, in recent weeks, in recent months, we think that it is shielding itself from the lack of professionals to continue with some cuts that are not new: attention, closure of centers, reduction of schedules, bets on non-present appointments, accumulation of quotas. And all this can only lead us to this privatization of health or to the facilitation to private companies of access to what is the most juicy part of the public health system: primary care. We do not agree - we have already said this more than once - with the analysis and the reasons put forward by the adviser on the origin and reasons for the difficult situation that primary care is currently facing in Euskadi. The problem of the lack of professionals, in our opinion, lies not exclusively in the clausus numbers, but in a prolonged and systematic lack of foresight on the part of the politicians in the face of a situation which has been being warned by the schools of doctors in the Basque Country for years. The Basque Government either bets on the privatization of health care, or else it is not able to deal with its problems. In either case, there is a need for policy change, which involves not only greater and better economic investment, but above all - in our view - listening to public health professionals. And listening to them is to attend to the proposals they have put on the table. It is true that after decades of inaction, the solution is not easy, but there are solutions. And they pass, as I say, by listening to their professionals. For Elkarrekin We can-United Left, that's clear. Solutions go by listening to public health professionals. This, in our view, is not being done by the Basque Government, as demonstrated by the constant protests, mobilizations and strikes carried out by these and these. That is why we, as I said, are not opposed to this proposed presentation, where they can speak in the Health Committee, but it is obvious that this initiative was not going to come out. That is why we are proposing today, again - because these are not new things we are proposing - a text with some of the most important measures that we have already heard from the professionals of our public health. We think that there are two models of listening faced when deciding which policies are driven by health: the one that listens to business consultants like Grant Thornton, who is hired from the Department of Health, who listens to public health professionals. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita knows, it is very clear, which is its trench, and we listen to those who understand that they better defend public health. Its proposals build on the text that we put forward today in this debate that we are proposing and that we will defend with our votes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u93	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. Again we promote the debate on our first attention in the parliament, at the general meeting. And it's true, it's not the first debate, we've had a few discussions on this subject, and the Popular Party and the Ciudadans have been able to make up their precise proposals at several times. Considering the final announcement of the chief health department of the First Council, it's a serious situation. And we can say the latest announcement is to organize... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...the latest advertisement. And we may say that the last advertisement is given an organization, or its end, any end, but, behind it, clearly and distinctly, we see a reduction. That's why we've proposed a definite proposal in order to correct it. And that's what we're asking for as soon as we can make a specific plan for the EukM all three months in order to solve all the problems that our first attention has, and in particular to repair the lack of personal or human resources. As I said, the situation of primary care is delicate. It is not a new diagnosis that we can make of the situation of primary care, but it is a situation that we have been dragging for a long time. As we discussed the primary care strategy in 2019, we then made it clear that it did not include sufficient short-, medium- and long-term measures to deal with the situation at that time..., which primary care had to deal with, but also the situation of the future, taking into account the high number of health professionals who were going to retire, and above all, also taking into account two other aspects that clearly affect this issue of lack of personnel, such as the ageing of the Basque population. We have an increasingly ageing society that demands specific health care, and also a fairly ageing workforce with an average age for nothing young. We, in contrast to the presentation's approach, which we also believe would be to start from scratch, believe that, as I said, we have had so many initiatives on this subject, that we do not start at all from scratch. We also believe that... we have had many appearances, in addition to many of them requested by the proposing group of this initiative, of unions, of collectives, of experts, we have also requested other groups over these years, and therefore, we believe, from the group I represent, that we must already do and that we must address this issue with an effective measure, addressing it in its entirety and not putting patches. And, in that sense, we do consider that the announcement made the other day by the councilwoman, far from claiming a reorganization of health care in Euskadi, what is clearly hidden is a cut-off covered by a purported cultural change, because behind this announcement clearly what was proposed to us was a decrease in health centres, and on the other hand, the possibility that citizens would have... not the possibility as an option, but the possibility that citizens already as an alternative that citizens have to move to other health centres further away or located in other populations where we can live. And all this also pointing to a specific group, that since there is no... as there is especially lack of doctors, because many of the functions performed by doctors can be performed by the nursing group. Without prejudice to that..., and enter, besides, and I think that besides we have to be (?) Extremely careful to encourage some discrepancy between collectives, I believe that there are functions that we all understand are performed by the optionals, that cannot be done by the nursing collective, without also prejudice that this collective, sometimes can also perform many more of the functions it performs, but each, obviously, has its own scope of action. We therefore believe that this announcement which was made raised concern among the professionals themselves and among the users themselves of Osakidetza, and gave the impression that an improvised measure was being taken to remove a rabbit from the hoax, and not really effective measures, actually addressing the situation of Basque health, and in this case primary care in its entirety, and going to the bottom of the matter, which was what had to have been done for a long time now with a primary care strategy in that sense because it was much more ambitious, much more realistic in terms of addressing the situation of primary care in Euskadi. And the forecast, we've already put figures on the table for a long time. A thousand professionals will retire for the next five years, of which 500 belong to the medical community. To all this we must add – and I will repeat this again – that in a generalised scenario of lack of healthcare professionals, there is fierce competition for taking the professionals. And in this scenario, obviously, the demand, the high demand of the euskera, both in the allocation of the linguistic profiles that are required when accessing a place in Osakidetza, as... I say Osakidetza, because in this case we are talking about Osakidetza, and when evaluating the euskera excessively in relation to other merits, make this demand of the euskera in these terms one more obstacle, one more stop to retain health professionals and attract other health professionals from other autonomous communities. As I said, we have tabled an amendment, and I pointed out earlier in Euskera that what we are clearly pursuing is that a primary care action plan should already be drawn up within three months, and that it should include those measures that are necessary to remedy the current situation, the shortcomings already identified, including the lack of staff. In relation to the original proposal, what I have said, well, the paper is not that it seems neither bad nor good to us as a proposal, but I think that in the state of the situation in which we are in, I think it is not the most appropriate instrument, but it is better... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... But I believe that, in the current state of affairs, I believe that it is not the most appropriate instrument, but that it is better and more appropriate at the moment to place specific duties on the Government to draw up a specific action plan in the area of primary care, addressing existing shortcomings, with particular attention to the lack of staff. With regard to the Podemos amendment, we have to say that some things we can agree on, but other things I think are obeying more... I will also leave you there, not to go into detail, with the time left for me in this intervention, plus approaches from the party you represent. And the government's. It is for us to wait, to wait for the reflection that professionals who are part of primary care, of the various OSIs are doing, and to share these conclusions in the Health Committee. That could be very good. But the problem is to clarify when that reflection is going to take place and what conclusions are going to be drawn from that reflection and, most importantly, what measures are going to be put on the table. In any case, and finally, as we believe that it is now time for measures, not for reflection, not for diagnosis, and not for debate, but for effective, realistic and state-of-the-art measures, for we believe that it is time for this action plan for primary care to be drawn up in Euskadi. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u95	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I tend to have the ugly habit of focusing on what is proposed to us for debate, rather than throwing it away and filling ten minutes, or even 15, of questions that go beyond the question before us. And what we are considering today is whether or not to create a paper. And I have to say that - as the proposer herself has said - this is the same thing she raised on 18 December 2020. We have already said that in that debate. But today the main difference with regard to that initiative is that when it did so for the first time it was newly constituted by the Basque Government, it had not even been two months since we had the first ordinary plenary of this legislature. And to put this same initiative today is to want to ignore that during all this time measures have been taken, decisions have been taken and diagnoses made. I, to focus the context a little bit, will try to talk about what those tools we have counted on. And if you remember, Mrs. Garrido said, at the end of the last legislature, in June 2019, the department presented the Primary Care Strategy to the Health Commission. A document that was discussed with management teams, with professionals, with trade union organizations, with scientific societies, and which sets out seven strategic lines, on which I also believe we will all agree. From there, as you all know, there came a pandemic that put everything up and led to primary attention to a tension that had never been subjected to. And it was necessary to incorporate that new reality. And that is what both the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party agreed within the Government Agreement. And, in that sense, on 2 November 2020, Councilwoman Gotxone Sagardui presented the guidelines in this very plenary, because, if you remember, for the effects of the covid we had to meet here in plenary the committees, to talk about the guidelines that she was going to develop throughout this legislature. And he devoted a large part of his attendance - you can see the Journal of Sessions - to talking about primary care. In fact, in that appearance - and I would like to recall that we are talking about the first appearance of the Health Adviser in this legislature - she has already advanced to us that it would be necessary to complete the implementation of the Primary Care Strategy, but also to think about how we can strengthen that service. If you want to read it, it's on page 77 of that Journal of Sessions. Furthermore, in this Parliament we have discussed a few times about primary care both in committee and in front of all of you in this very plenary. I think you are aware of the many times we have talked about this issue. And they have also reached agreements. For example, there is the agreement of 11 November 2020 on measures to be taken in primary care. A text presented by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party with two points: one, referring to the context of the pandemic, the most urgent, and the other in general, with 14 concrete commitments. And that it should not have seemed to this House crazy because there was not a single vote against it. And that is in addition to other debates and agreements that we have had throughout the year 2021 and 2022 to improve primary care in Euskadi, which is an objective that, of course, the Socialists and this government share. But with it we can't forget... Balls are said to be thrown out. No, no. We cannot forget that the pandemic, by its very definition, has been a problem that has affected us all. Not only Euskadi, it has affected the different autonomous communities of Spain, it has affected Europe, it has affected everyone. And, in addition, similar problems are occurring in all these places, for example, the lack of specialists in family and community medicine. In this regard, I would like to point out that recently, within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, the Plan for Primary and Community Care of Spain 2022-2023 was approved, which incorporates concrete solutions to the problems that are affecting all the autonomous communities alike. Something that, together with the increase in MIR offers in specialties such as family and community medicine... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... problems that are affecting us in all the autonomous communities alike. Something that, together with the increase of MIR offers in specialties such as family and community medicine carried out by the Ministry of Health, can help to alleviate the current lack of specialists. So, we don't start from scratch. There is a diagnosis, it is a shared diagnosis for all the autonomous communities that have affected us equally. For all countries in the world that have seen their primary care systems overflow. There are measures, there are reflections and we have tools to push them. We, from the Socialist Party of Euskadi, are clear that progress in primary care must be a priority. And especially after he suffered a tension like the one he had never been subjected to by the pandemic. The aim is for Osakidetza to guarantee the highest standards of quality in Basque public health. And our bet goes through a health closer to the citizen, which is what we collected in the Government Agreement. And, of that demand, as we have reiterated by the Basque Socialists, we are not going to move. And to do that, we must put all the means and tools at our disposal. And beyond raising abstract debates that want to ignore the previous work done - of which we were told, for example, the director of Osakidetza and the deputy director of Primary Care - we think it would be interesting to incorporate in this reflection the professionals who are part of the primary care of Osakidetza. Because I say we all share that you have something to say. And then let us share the conclusions that we have reached in the Committee on Health, so that the parliamentary groups can count on this contrast, and we can make the contributions that we consider appropriate. More than talking, we'll have to do it. And we think that's the way if we want to do things right. And it is a path that as always we are willing to go through with all the groups in this House. But that's what they'll have to want to do. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u98	The lady's head. Good afternoon, chiefs. Good noon, everyone. In February 2019, the Department of Health presented its primary care strategy, which is still in place and has demonstrated throughout the pandemic in its strength. In September 2020, in her first speech to the Health Committee, Councilwoman Sagardui broke down her work strategy for this legislature. And among many other commitments, it was ratified in the strategy already approved, and it committed itself in various concrete aspects, such as its impulse, strengthening of professional training, strengthening administrative areas, creating the figure of the pharmacist, prioritizing training of MIR, etc., etc. A lot of things. Well, without waiting to check its implementation, two months later, on 12 November 2020, a debate on primary care was held at your request, Mrs Ubera. And it was approved, as Mr Rico said, our proposal, that of the PSOE and ours, without any vote against. And it was a proposal that included a very important battery of commitments to primary care. But he didn't stop. In December of that year, a month later, he submitted a GNP, in which he asked for a presentation to discuss primary care, with different actors, and in which he asked for such a presentation to be completed in three months in view of the urgency of the matter. Although GNP was supplemented in May 2020. Six months since you showed up after you showed the urgency of the matter, and that was only a year ago. Now he presents a photocopy of that motion, asking, logically, exactly the same thing. I recognize, I will tell you, that I have carefully analyzed the motion, and I have come to three conclusions. First, we're boring ourselves. Monday, I'm worried about you. So innovative in the world of occurrences, I see a stagnant film. And third, to save everyone time, if only a year ago you presented the same thing and we said no, and we're still the same and nothing has changed, because it's going to be no. Weary, because after taking advantage of a few words from the counselor, decontextualizing them, including hyperbole and mixed reflections on primary care with changes that can occur in hospital care, she has concluded to ask for a presentation, the same as a year ago, to the thread of the covid - which could be more imaginative. And he's hyperbolized by explaining that cuts and privatization have been talked about on a permanent basis. When that, and I was present, there was never talk. If today's budget is higher than two years ago and the number of optionals and higher than two years ago, where do you see the cut? If in two years the budget for consultation with private companies has not increased, where do you see privatization? It's all for scaring, for putting fear to nail the ascua to your sardine, and not to tie the shoulder to help solve the problems. To conclude by asking for the same thing as a year ago, when this Parliament, which is the same, as I said by a majority, told you no. Look, primary care has its strategy designed by Osakidetza, who is responsible for doing it and developing it. The Department of Health is responsible for the functioning of its services. And, in their responsibility, neither Osakidetza nor the Department have stopped working to ensure that primary care continues to move forward in solving its biggest problems, and in the strategy to be implemented. And that, and I insist, does concern Osakidetza and not a totum revolutionum of possible presentation. And Osakidetza is on it. And understanding that responsibility, after hearing the Sailburu and the director of Osakidetza talk about new planning, teamwork, a multitude of new developments, we understand and then we know, that the management of Osakidetza is carrying out a logical global reflection exercise, in which we know who really knows the issue: many professionals from different OSI, and belonging to different professional categories to evaluate the situation of primary care. They are not talking to each other about the end of primary care, but about how it will continue to improve. And they're talking to primary care professionals, they're not talking to people who don't know. And, by the way... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...better. And they're talking to primary care professionals, they're not talking to people who don't know. And, by the way, of course, ironically it says, "They're talking in Sabin Etxea." Look, in Sabin Etxea they do other things, but I know, I've been told that they tried to go to a herriko tavern, but there was so much noise, so much trouble inside that they decided to go back to Osakidetza to do the reflection. And, of course, Mrs Garrido, you tell us that it depends on what conclusions. Man, if you tell us it depends on what conclusions, they will draw the conclusions that they understand right, that professionals understand right, and they will bring them to us here. Because they will do a work of conclusions and subsequent contrasts with the current strategy, logically, and that will lead to see if the current strategy needs to be modified. And we, who are more creative, with our amendment and understanding that it will be a solid and informed work, done by those who know, ask them to bring the conclusions to Parliament not to tell us, to share them with us, to analyse them, and, if necessary, to incorporate the different assessments that we can make to them. In conclusion, the Government is continuously analysing possible improvements to its services. The Government was working to improve them with professionals familiar with the matter, and the Government shared its conclusions with Parliament. I believe that all this cannot be denied, because that is an efficient way of addressing problems and their possible solutions. That does not mean that there are also matters in which responsibility is not only of Osakidetza, it is shared from the very beginning. For example, if primary care now has an essential problem, the lack of young people who want to devote themselves to this profession, Osakidetza, for their part, have already integrated it into their strategy, requesting the maximum of (?) doctors who can be trained, or offer long-term contracts to those who have recently completed MIR training. That we have heard here from the counselor and the director of Osakidetza, that every doctor who wants to work now in primary care with Osakidetza, has a contract on the table. But addressing that problem requires, in addition to Osakidetza's effort, the effort of all. And when I say all of them, he spoke of medical colleges, unions, universities, Parliament, the Ministry of Health and the global society, if necessary, to really start among everyone to speak better about this specialty, and that society needs those professionals. This requires universities to open their doors more and to train more about this specialty. May the Ministry provide us with more MIR, may our doctors be prepared to train more MIR, and may we all enjoy that work, that dedication, that social need. What is little help is to continue making hyperbole or to keep saying trollas like continuing to insist that a doctor does more than 70 daily attentions, as she said again, Mrs Ubera, last week, when only ten days ago the counselor gave us the concrete data that the average care (?) two weeks ago it was 28, with a maximum of an outpatient clinic of 43, that the mean pediatric care was 18 with a maximum in an outpatient clinic of 33, and that the mean nursing care was 14 with a maximum in an outpatient clinic of 22. And it wasn't a daily average, it was weekly, and therefore, much closer to routine reality. To say, as you say, that they are almost triple a day, which is a lie, I don't think it helps much to encourage young people to be family doctors. Do not escape your responsibility, which also has it as we all have it. Finally, regardless of whether everyone is acting with his or her responsibility as he or she wishes, our group, together with the Socialist Group, is bringing to the House today an amendment which seeks to address the problem of primary care from the perspective of letting those who know, all of whom we all know are the experts in this field, then sharing their conclusions with the representatives of the citizenry. I leave it to your consciences and your responsibility to support it or not, there you are. Look, it's the last plenary of the season, and the most important thing today is that we've passed four laws with relevant majorities. It would be good if we added a relevant majority to this issue, and if not, and if not, then look, we just have to worry about someone continuing to strive not to join in solving the problems. Despite all this, primary care will continue to be cared for, managed and carefully analyzed by the Department of Health, which is of all, and will continue to do so for all. Mrs Ubera, may your world of occurrences be renewed this summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The next round of a group that has no corrections, the Mist must not speak. So we're going to take the answers round. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u100	Well, I'm sorry to bore you with people's problems, Mr. Telleria. I'm so sorry. Are we boring him? Really? And what are you doing to the citizenry? Boring, angry? Zeren herritarrak ikusten ari anbulategiak ixten ari tell it, ordutegiak murrizten ari tell it, kontsultak lortzeko izugarriak egin behar dituztela. Mesedez, look at the beat. Eta badirudi hemen henerako guztiek gezurrak exacten diguula. And it's not the data EH Collect gives, it's the data they're giving professionals: doctors, nurses. That's right, when you're interested in professionals, nurses, you have to listen to them, but then when they give them the facts and put their daily reality on the table, then they're lying. And you still deny what the chief physician said. Shall I read it to you? I have here literally what the chief physician said. I don't remember what we read about the vaccines on Santamarina vaccine trial. We haven't heard what we've heard, we've suffered. I'm sorry, here's the problem that you've created. You're the ones who created the problem, not the others. Thus he accused the rest of his actions and his consequences. You're wrong, you're wrong with the canteen. After that canteen, what is hidden is its inability and its shortcomings, and which responds to its systematic entanglement, Mr. Telleria. I don't know what's behind that. You'll have to explain to me what's behind it: if it's the lack of competition... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... I don't know what's behind that. You'll have to explain to me what's behind it: whether it's lack of competition or evil. And I don't think it's the first. Then today's discussion is a little surprising too. And it's painful, and we don't understand it anymore. Look, June 27, 2022. The Chief of the Gottzeones, the Chief of the Apples, admitted that there was difficulty in the media, but he made an agreement and conversation. In the 20th of June, Mrs. On June 17th, Louis Javier Telllerí proclaimed the necessity of settlements in the committee, the local agreement, how important they are in such a matter, and so on. And we don't understand what you mean, or what you want when you make that call for agreement when you hold out your hand. We're here, in response to that call, with an initiative, and the only thing we can get is wood, wood, shut... That's all we get. What's the deal for you? When you say you stretch out your hand, what does that mean? Please explain. Maybe... We need some one to explain and interpret it, to make a better reading of it, because we are really surprised. We don't understand the agreement for the government. And it was seen today. The government's four laws, four laws, and the EH Collectors, when he comes down to the content, the agreement. And I, too, today, have a deal in the sports department. But here, in this area, we don't know what's going on. Or what is it? The government has to bring it in and when EH Collect brings it in, don't you need an agreement? What is it, who introduces the initiative? Do you mind if EH Collect brings in initiative? Do you mind if I bring to this house the themes which Combat cares for the people? To discuss and make proposals? Is that the problem? Or what's the problem? Like in budgets. For our first attention, we agreed to 30 million more, the precise measures were not agreed, general measures. Then you, for sale, with technology equipment, access to your health homes... That's why you don't want to agree with the EH collections, then to make readings and sales in a divisive way. The Titus cares only, here is a popular question, a challenge of people, and when there is a future game, a public health right, a right of individuals, an individual, and a collective one. Because this is not an EH Collect account. It's none of EAJ's business. Excuse me, this is a challenge to a whole country. It's a challenge to a whole society. Because Osabason isn't EAJ's. It's not the EH Collectorship. Membership belongs to the people, to everyone, because, it seems, no one can touch health or membership. And here's a problem, we've got a big problem. We've been told that they're taking steps, doing diagnostics. Well, if they're doing it, they're doing it, and they're looking at the situation we're dealing with, they're doing it very wrong. That's a chance, or else you're not doing it. We have these two options. So, if you're doing it, what you're doing isn't worth because the results aren't good, and if you're not doing it, then we have to start doing it. Or both. We're in the yard. And it's not because we say it's the way it is, but because we're already seeing how many ambulances they're closing up, they're reducing the schedules, they're missing professional health...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u101	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u102	...how many consultations each professional has in his diary, etc., etc., etc. Then we could go on like this. You guys keep beating us up, keep going. Keep locking it up and hand us our wood, but in the meantime the problem will continue unsolved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u104	Yes, thank you. I would like to address the spokespersons of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Mr Rico said that it is his custom to focus on the concrete proposal that is being brought to us. And I am going to give you an explanation, because I think I should, because we have made, as I have explained before, an amendment which, it is true, deviated from what was proposed to us, because we were simply proposing a paper, which suits us well, but that we all knew that it was not going to go ahead, and that they were not going to reach an agreement with you. We therefore believe that concrete measures should be put on the table, which we are listening to precisely those we insist on listening to. Because the proposal made by the parties supporting the Government, which the Government is telling us, is going to listen to certain public health professionals and then it is going to bring to Parliament its conclusions so that we can know them and perhaps make contributions. Well, well, that I understand is the regular work of the government: to listen to public health professionals. But here the Basque Government has a problem: to which public health professionals do you listen? We do not deny those professionals with whom the Basque Government works, but we think that the Basque Government ignores the representation and role of public health professionals through their unions, which are not all class unions; there are professional unions, class unions, which have in the system a role of representation of public workers, and that their only role is not limited to or should be limited to the issue of labour rights. And so, we think... For us, most importantly, with or without a paper, it will continue to be to listen to the representatives of the workers of our public health, who understand that they are the main stakeholders in the defense of that public health, and with those we agree in programmatic matters regarding health... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... in the defence of that public health, and with those we agree in programmatic matters on health in many matters. That, therefore, has prompted us to present the amendment that we have today, which we have tabled today. And we too will, at all times, have the hand of the Government to talk about these issues. The other day our spokesman did it to the lehendakari. But without naivety, the hands stretched are on specific issues, and there are specific issues, measures, that we believe there is no agreement, because we bring them and the Government does not agree with them. Which is legitimate. But that is, of course, the basis on which we will continue to insist in this Parliament and in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscal Group Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u106	Yeah? Yes, I am now. Bakarrik zehaztasun bat Egyptian. I would like to say to Mr Teller that I did not have to explain myself well in my speech. We are not referring to whether the conclusions were in any way, but to when those conclusions would be reached by the working group, so that action could be taken as soon as possible. It was simply a reference to that, that those conclusions should be made as soon as possible so that the measures could be taken as quickly as possible, because the situation is of the opinion that it does not allow any further delay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u107	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u108	Thank you, President. I agree that this is a country challenge, it is a challenge of the European Union, it is a challenge of the world, it is a challenge of Spain, and it is a country challenge also in Euskadi, but that requires an attitude. And the problem is that I think there are those who do not have that attitude, who have proposed that this, instead of being a challenge that we can turn into an opportunity, is a problem that is not just solved to try to pull, pull and pull the thread and be in as many more manifestations as possible. And I have already said this on more than one occasion, the demonstrations too - I often go to some of them - but I got into politics not to go to demonstration, I got into politics to give solutions to the problems. And there are people who seem to be in politics to go from parliamentarian to a demonstration. And that, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is not the responsibility of those who are here, of whom we have the privilege of being one of the 75 men and women we sit in this House. With regard to what the representative of Podemos said, I will tell you one thing. I recognize your consistency in this area; we may or may not agree on certain issues, but I do recognize that we have agreed on many issues, and we have also reached agreements. I also recognize that even when it was not fashionable to defend certain issues, you have understood that that was being done well and have said so. And I recognize his consistency. Because what does not bother me, Mrs Ubera, is by no means from whom the initiatives come. No, what bothers me is incoherence. What bothers me is that you come here and say that we are talking about a very important issue. And if anyone stops to think for a moment about where the problem is, it's in the middle. You tell us it has to be for a paper. We say to him: listen, there is work being done by the Department with primary care professionals and professionals; let's take it, let's do that contrast, bring it to the Health Commission and there we - all parliamentary groups - can have the opportunity to contrast and make contributions. Is the real problem the middle? Is that how it gets in the middle? And by the way, and by the way, incoherence. This initiative, which I have said before, brings us today, is the same as it brought us in December 2020. A month earlier, as my colleague, Luis Javier Tellería, has said, you have planted a motion with the measures to be taken in primary care. EH Bildu didn't need a paper? Ah, the others do. You can do whatever you like, you can do whatever you want. Look, if then the rest of the groups do not understand that we must make the statement that EH Bildu did not require itself to bring us initiatives on primary care here, we are attacking democracy and the sacrosanct principles of democracy. And that's the problem, Mrs. Ubera. That's what bothers me. That's what bothers me: the real lack of interest in solving problems. That's what's bothering me. And I think that's what pisses off many citizens of this country. A moment has come - it will allow me - that I believe that if today we had to push the electronic prescription, EH Bildu would vote against and say it is a cut, because citizens are not being allowed to receive a prescription directly from their doctor. That is the real situation that is going on in this Parliament, blocking absolutely any kind of health agreement by EH Bildu. And that's what we're asking. Today, those who are watching us must be hallucinated, because if you stop a little bit thinking about what you are proposing and what we have proposed, can you tell me where the problem is that those who work in Osakidetza in primary care say what they think about the situation of primary care, bring it to this Parliament, to a committee, and the parliamentary groups have the capacity to contrast it and provide it? What's the problem? I really can't understand it, except the goal is not to solve the problem, Mrs. Ubera, except the goal is to try to follow... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ...to understand, except that the aim is not to solve the problem, Mrs Ubera, except that the aim is to try to remain in demonstrations, and not in solutions to problems. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u109	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u110	I wasn't going out, because it's true, boredom is already..., I have it integrated, but it leaves me no choice. Anyway, Mrs. Garrido, it's true. I have misunderstood him, but in any case, I also want to reassure him, it is not in my hand, because it is in the hands of the department, but for what I have spoken with them, surely shortly after the summer we can start working on the subject. We're not bringing one thing in so that then it's ad graecas calendars, I'm really telling you. But, what's going on, Mr. Hernández. As soon as we brought you a concrete way of working you rejected it because it comes from us, because what you are professionals, I'm talking to you about more than 40 primary care professionals. Do you think we have always chosen the Batzokis? or, as Mrs Ubera has said, they are in Sabin Etxea. Forty professionals, what are professionals for you, those who are working or the freed trade unions? Look, since you have good contact with Workers' Commissions, I'm going to suggest one thing, I'm going to suggest one thing. Get in touch with the head of the Workers' Commissions of Health here, from Euskadi, with the secretary general of the Workers' Commissions of Salamanca, because the one here is giving birth to what is happening, and that of Salamanca the other day said: "The Basque Country takes half of the new nurses of Salamanca", because there they are more competitive and offer them better conditions and better wages. Let's see what we're talking about. In any case, I am offering you, together with the Socialist Party, a job of professionals who bring you to us for analysis, and you will have time to talk to the trade union representatives you want to contrast, because nobody tells you not to do it, that's what we're doing. If you have said that pact among all, I said the other day, Mrs Ubera, a pact among all to solve the biggest problem that is currently urgent Basque public health, which are primary care doctors. And, precisely, it's what I've been talking about, it's everyone's. The rest of the problems basically fall to the Government itself and to the Department of Health itself and Osakidetza itself to solve them, but that other one has a very superior entity that requires from everyone, and, of course, to continue insisting on exaggerating the situation is what I have told you that it does not encourage, because you and I too are responsible for prestige of that profession, encouraging young people to present themselves. But not just you and me, I've told you college, I've told you a lot of things, because you talk to me again about long queues, waiting. He's telling me things in general again. I only heard him once, and I told him today that he lied. What I have come here is with data, bring data, bring data and do not bring me lies, which is what annoys me, because, instead, you have also been angry at what I have told you and say to me, "I do not know, Mr. Telleria, whether you lack competence or evil." Look, I'll tell you. I know myself pretty well, especially, I've been with me more years than anyone else. And I can tell you, almost certainly, it's a lack of competition, mine is a lack of competition. The evil is of people with higher psychotechnical testing, and that assurance you give it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u111	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The discussion is over and we'll vote for Mrs. Ubera Aranzeta's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 70; the 10th, 25; the contrary, 45; abstaining, 0; white0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u112	So it's not accepted. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is going to vote for the full rights of the crew. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 70; the 10th, 25; the contrary, 45; abstaining, 0; white0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u113	Not accepted. We'll vote for the entire leadership of the populars-Céranos team in the next place. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; votes given, 70; in favour 6; contraries, 64; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u114	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly are 67; the votes given, 70; the supporters are 39; the opponents are 25; abstainments, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u115	Integer correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Provide the bill of law made by the parliamentary team, the law of 6/2019, May 9th, Euscala Cultura of the Ondarene. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Estarrona, representative of the EH Union. But here, you're in the documentation that's been delivered to you. You're in the mood for fun, and you're on the other side and you're on the other side. In addition to EHG, someone else on the side? No.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u116	Thank you, Reverend. And, well, welcome to the Arkeology. [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u117	Thank you, Reverend. And welcome representatives of the Arkeology Institute, and also welcome welcome welcomes to the members of the State Archeology Platform, who are following this discussion. Searchmetales.com. The truth that I've been reviewing quite a few topics in this forum and found a post in which the forum administrator commented that in the Basque Country there is less chance of being reported than other communities. All detectors.com. Eta nik honekin benetan harritu naizela asko. "The Basque Government has rejected the reform of the Cultural Heritage Act, so you can continue to use the detector as before. In the Basque Country it is better that it is in other places." Ari will say honetaz hitz egiten gaur via ekarri dugun lege honetaz. Only two examples on the Internet, because there are more examples and even in social networks, you can see that this activity is pretty widely diffused. At least I didn't... or rather, I was not conscious that this problem was so widely diffused. And I believe that when we discussed the law of the "6/20th Caldeural of May," 6/19, where we worked and accepted it, so to speak, several archaeologists introduced adulations to this law, but we did not answer that reality. And, in a way, poes, I think it's fair to make self-critic there, and because we lost somehow the opportunity to answer this reality, namely, the precise articulate and entering of the law. And so it comes in some way to regulate the law of regulating the metal detectors, the 6/2019 of May, today's 9th, the Euskal Cultura Ondarene, the pues, the planet of change. A reality, an activity that is proliferating, that is becoming more and more widespread. And it is something that, moreover, not only the archaeology professionals say, but also the Basque Government itself recognizes it, thus recognizing the existence of this reality in its unfavorable approach to the consideration of this law. But also by the way of the facts he also recognizes it. And it is that in the Decree 195/2018 of his Government, of 26 December, which has to do with the iron belt, speaks in the first annex: "The area to be protected in general is the very line of the iron belt and its isolated defenses. This delimitation is established in order to order an area of protection and defense against the intrusion of metal detectors that are increasingly present in this type of conflict spaces in an amateur or stealth manner." And the question, then, would be when is it amateurly and when is it stealthily? Because, obviously, if someone goes to where someone with a metal detector and asks, "Hey, what? here for stealth or hobby?", what will answer you. So how do we know, how do we know? Because if I had a permit or an authorization, if I had a permit at that time or an authorization in hand, right?, then you might know. But this is not the case. And this is the main argument and is the main reason why we present this reform of the Heritage Law, is the need to regulate the use of metal detectors. Because any authority, be it Ertzaintza, could even be given for this to the forest guards, etc., see a person with a metal detector, "Hey, do you have a license?". You don't have a license, okay. Well, you know how to act. But that doesn't work. Because, in addition, there are legitimate practices for the use of metal detectors that include agricultural use, for the detection of pipelines, construction and maintenance of infrastructure, among others. But amateur use generates many, many doubts, and, above all, creates many problems. And that is allowed with the legislation that is in force today in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And we were a little surprised at the fact that it seems as if it was regulated in the law of the "Ondare Cultural." And thus it determines: "Euscal Autonomia Errimia has no specific application of metal detectors, but the law of Cultural Ondarae receives this activity in several articles." He doesn't get it in express terms. He doesn't get it expressly. Not the word metal or detection is expressly received in the whole law. And we believe, moreover, that this makes a legal uncertainty about the use of these devices. Because the law allows the use of these devices to be excluded from the archaeological fields. At the present day, without giving any justification, without any permission, even in an artificial manner, but outside the archaeological areas, the Euscal Autonomy is now using these devices in Erhigo. These are −examples that have been made up so far as to recognize or create any one of these inquiries. Because, in the first place, that's because the edge doesn't know. Unless it's very obvious that a border patrol doesn't know whether this area is a potential arteology area or not. And, as I said before, it would be easy: "And if he asks for permission, go ahead, and does not apply the regulation which is received in the law. Baita ere egungo legearen arabra, bertan jartzen du artikulatuan eta hori zuen irizpenean ere Gobernuak jasotzen du, da: "The breach of the obligations of the person discovering objects", objects, "and materials possessing the values proper to the Basque cultural heritage in the random findings". Of course, and then, the turn ertzaina has at that time, if you find a person wearing a metal patch, you have to decide whether this material owns the values of the Basque cultural heritage, to know whether to act or not or to let go. And that doesn't take into account the usual modus operandi. Because, of course, whoever goes with a metal detector through the field and finds something does not take it and takes it to the zurron so that then someone sees it very visibly, but leaves it and then another day, another time, passes by bicycle or passes by night. That's the usual modus operandi. And that doesn't need to be John Dillinger. Wouldn't it be simpler, wouldn't it be simpler, asking for permission, permission, permission, as we said? Eta... Moreover, this is precisely what the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Government of Sánchez put forward in the preliminary draft law on the reform of historical heritage legislation, Mr Alonso of the Socialist Party. Precisely picks up expressly... It's an initiative that forbids... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Government of Sánchez in the preliminary draft law on the reform of historical heritage legislation. It specifically states "it is an initiative that prohibits the unauthorized use of metal detectors to prevent the destruction of deposits" and, in addition, it does so by perfecting the regime of infringements and sanctions. Whether it's an archeological presumptuous zone or not. And that's what's in Sanchez's Government's Historic Heritage Legislation Reform Act. "Pero no solo el Gobierno del reino de Esaña recoge est pobilidad." In another part of our people, in Navarre, there is, regulated in the law, and there is expressly received. But even around us, such as Castile, Leon, or Aragon, is expressly received in the law. And that's why we don't understand anything about being able to say to a certain personal improvement, because after all that's a positive improvement, not to refuse it. We've already said it before, and I'll remark it, Mr. Zupiria, your department, the Cultural Department has no ability to make an agreement with us. O se, it's a section that's least successful. We've said more than once, yes, that's the way it is, and there's the statistics. Yours is the lowest settlement, Mr. Zupiria. And in such a subject, for example, where and in what and what, and in what kind of culture. And today, too, we've got a photograph of it in some way out of the way. Four laws of the government, four laws of yours, are just received with the consent of the EH Union. I guess he doesn't know how to collect EH. And again, when the proposition comes from the EH Union, it is a negative part of you. We have brought 13 laws in this law. Of these there have been received two Tramites, because they came from the precedent Act; but from the rest of the 11, that is to say, from our propositions, which have been new in this Law, received by zero Tramit. Zero. And not only that, you didn't want to argue. One day, in a law of Socialists around the housing. Not another 12 o'clock. And none of the proposals made by the EH Collectors. What is all bad? All of them? And the example of this to-day, when four laws with our assent, with us on this day, has come to mind. That's a good mark. Eta legearen edukiera bueltatuz, could argue the Basque Government, truth, that there are operations against property crimes and that there is a sanctioning regime in the law against them. But neither the former 1990 law was applied either once the sanctioning regime against the expolies of property, nor in the 2019 law. Neither. Of course, and I could say, well, but it's just that the authorities act, the Ertzaintza has acted. Of course, and it's true, and we have the data from the Department of Security we requested from Mr. Erkoreka. And it is true that a series of performances have been made. In six years, from 2016 to 2021, if they are official data, there have been in total nine operations per patrimony expoliation; five in Araba - which is not random because it is where there are most mobilized people to safeguard the patrimony -; three in Gipuzkoa and one in Bizkaia, one in Bizkaia in six years. An operation, an investigation by the Ertzaintza. Six years. Of course, and that as far as the quantitative is concerned, but if we look at the qualitative in the operations, it is true that all these have a common characteristic and that all are large operations. And I'll explain myself. They're so obvious, well, I was gonna make a joke. I'll keep it. These are operations, in this case, for example, Operation Burdin, Operation Burdin, which says that investigations began in November 2020 after a person's call from an individual to 112. By which he reported that two people were carrying out a clandestine tasting at the site of Iruña Veleia. Of course, ostroras, is that a person doing tastings where and in Iruña Veleia, that we surely ask here another series of areas of archaeological presumption and surely we don't know anymore. But it is that in Iruña Veleia making tastings stealthily, of course, 112 and because a person attended and did well to catch and call 112 to denounce it. And then, they called it Operation Burdin and carried out the Ertzaintza an investigation. Operation Ondare, given in 2020. Investigations revealed that these people have been engaged in these illegal conducts since at least 2010, ten years, ten years. And that their components published some videos of their incursions on the Internet. An important private collection. And in addition, this person had offered his collection in exchange for economic compensation, which would reveal a profit. Of course, ten years stripping, ten years uploading videos on the Internet and ten years wanting to sell what she was stripping, so, of course, one gets caught in the end. Ten years. Operation explosion, the last thing that's done the explosion is the edgelines. And I think, too, that the small group, the small group on the edge, I think, must be put to value, because they are at last five people, I'm sorry, all in all, and we say they have no resources. But, well, they still do. But the border has acted against a criminal group that was in the archaeological framework of Biscay and Araba, and three people have been left under investigation on the crime against the historical domain of Europe. The investigation started at the beginning of June 2022, Euskák, headmasters of the estate, your director, Mr. Zupiria, at the edge of the Gastrii, for some alleged crime of the archaeological exposure. By this accusation they gave the Borders to know that in the photographs and videos of a well-known social network there were seen several people in lands, caves, civil war structures, and in other places proscinating with metal detectors. When the metal objects were found, these people made catacombs with tools and dug all kinds of metal out of the earth. And they either wanted to complete their collection or took them for themselves. Sure. Sure, you don't have to be Sherlock Holmes. That is, if there are a number of people in an open Instagram account who go with metal detectors and they are doing, they are making videos to prove everything they are getting, because, of course, because in the end it takes sensitive people, like the people who are in the Heritage Directorate of the Basque Government and tell the Ertzaintza "hey, buddy, this is already going dark brown... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... Sensitive people like the people who are in the Heritage Directorate of the Basque Government and says to him the Ertzaintza "hey, buddy, this is already going dark chestnut, which these are also doing here apologie de la expoliación". As a short cut, there's a problem. He's not in the right mood on the day. We made a suggestion, but once more, that pues, we've met the Cultural Department, and we think it's a lost opportunity today. With the construction of the projector, with the intention of proposing, we planned the "Ondare Law" with the same spirit as the spirit of a great agreement, and planned this change to improve us today. And then, if it was possible with the words you said, the government doesn't need it today. It is a law which answers to a certain reality, which is like the laws which exist about it, and which the archaeologists and professionals see necessary. But yet he will have no answer, and he will not accept the tramit. We believe, as we said, that today we had a chance to step forward under the protection of our fortune, but we didn't. And Eduardo Galanus, to conclude, agreed that the victors write a story. 'It's part of the pill,' he wrote. To stay in memory, to own the story. Today, however, we are speaking of those who strip their property not so metaphorically. To risk what we know or know about our past, to destroy or destroy the traces of our history. There is no proof more clear, more common, of physical evidence, than of a clue, which is no greater, than that which steals the common patrimony. In this town, we know (... ) How generous it may be for the farmers who care for him, and consequently for all of us. And yet the earth conceals other treasures, and even in the fruit of memory it may be fruitful for those who cultivate it with proper method. Be in archaeology, palaeontology, be in all the branches of history. But to search through the fruit of the past, to know the beginning of what we are, it is all our business to put resources in order to provide for the memory of the earth. Legal, even in this case. And that was the change of the 6/2019 law of Euscal Kulgura to regulate the metal detectors that we brought into the tramit. For our patrimony, for our history, for our memory, after all, for our country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u118	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. In the opposite round, is anyone willing to join us? Whether the law proposition is taken notice of will be put to vote at the end of the dispute or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; votes given, 70; in favour of 25; contrarys 40; abstaining, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u119	So the bill was ignored. After that, we'll go to a vote. Mist shouldn't take it. Mr. Barrio, representing the Popula Party. I remember everybody talking about vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mr Estarrona, we have seen with interest the proposal put forward by your group. We thought something - and we still think it - that something was not controlled in relation to the regulation of metal detectors, which we usually see on the beaches, but which we also know, because we know, because we have documented that they are employed for various purposes, of search, of amateur search or of technical search, and that is why we have informed ourselves on the subject. And that is why, because of the fundamentally technical nature of this issue, we were very anxious to demonstrate the Government's view. A technical element, and the Government had to give us a basic insight into what was, how it was regulated. How the misuse of metal detectors was precisely controlled in this case, and what it is to preserve the proper use of metal detectors. Because we're talking positive. It seems that many times we speak in negative, but it would have to be in positive. Because metal detectors have many uses, apart from playful ones, they have their technicians. And indeed and also in relation to the protection of the heritage, in relation to the perfectly accredited search. And you propose a regulation, and the government says it's done. We also believe in the government. We also believe that the Government after the Heritage Act of 19 will also have put the piles on this issue. Because if not, it would also be a violation of one's own laws. Well, you've also been well documented and given a series of data. We also received with interest a report a long time ago... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... fail to comply with their own laws. Well, you've also been well documented and given a series of data. We also received with interest a report a long time ago, I guess after the heritage law; I don't remember very well the date, but a report from the Spanish Federation of Sports Detection, and which also talked about the... and the autonomous associations. It's an interesting report about... for the creation of a regulatory framework, he spoke. Even the activity of metal detectors in Spain. That is, this report talked about regulation throughout Spain, and it was signed by the delegate in Spain of the European Association of Metal Detectors and Sport Detection that they call them, Francesc Gómez, and it talked about how the situation was also in the whole of Spain and in different autonomous communities; it talked about Andalusia, which (...) was not the Basque Country, but I suppose that the members of this association would be integrated into the Spanish Federation. And it was interesting. They also talked about this need for regulation throughout Spain. And they sent us some interesting reports, about their sports, playful, search activities; and also with something that is interesting; and it also puts them in value with their ethical code, respect for heritage, and the need for a regulation that protects playful and sports users. And they also informed us, in that telematic correspondence, about examples of collaboration there, right? Some have been able to find weapons or ammunition not deactivated since the conflicts, the last decades and centuries even, and also lost objects, jewels, also archaeological pieces outside heritage or out of archaeological sites. In other words, among other things, there are many possibilities and usefulness. In any case, the subject is there. It has indicated to the Government that it is controlled by the administrations. And we understand that if it is controlled by the administrations, by the various competent departments or by the institutions - the outlaws, the parliaments or even the municipalities - we understand that it will also be controlled by the police or other public inspection authorities, in this case, in relation to the assets, or other issues that they can detect. The Government had placed on the table a number of articles of the property law on which to base such control: article 64, article 66, in relation to the search and removal of land, both in search of materials and also in archaeological sites, and article 84, which referred to violations. I mean, we move in a doubt. We abstained because, in fact, the Government's approach was contrary to the technical nature of what you presented. But I, too, believe that the government must be required to control it. And we will follow up; and most of all, we will surely follow up on you, on the follow-up the Government is taking on how the Government's activity is evolving in relation to this monitoring. But indeed, it is interesting what you have raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u121	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u122	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. The issue of metal detectors, although it may seem remote, is a reality, and is increasingly widespread. It is not uncommon to see on social networks, as they have previously indicated, people practicing metal detection legally or illegally. Just as it is also not uncommon for newspaper articles to appear every certain time how someone has been arrested with hundreds and hundreds of archaeological articles at home. In the same forum that Mr Estarrona mentioned to us before, at the end of the forum there is a link that sends you to a Google Maps with the archaeological zones of Euskadi that cannot be detected. I mean, it's a very widespread practice, and it's welcome to regulate it. And so says European Directive No 921, which recommends that states and governments in each state keep records of users with metal detectors, as well as create a licensing system. Well, as we've been told, it's not forbidden to detect. It is prohibited to detect in some areas - such as archaeological areas, nature reserves, heritage areas - but in general it is not prohibited. There is a defencelessness, because the archaeological zones are not public. Iruña-Veleia is known, but many archaeological areas are not public. And when a person is in an area that doesn't know if it's an archeological zone, it's a crime. That is why we see a need to regulate this permit. On this permit, most of the autonomous communities have chosen to develop the above-mentioned line of the European Directive. It regulates its use and sets limits and conditions: two kilometres or any other. And only in the case of the Andalusian and Valencian regulations, which are the most restrictive, and yes in principle, in the preliminary draft law of the Andalusian heritage law the prohibition itself was raised, in fact, already, at the end of last year, they ended up regulating the authorization of these detectors. Given this situation, we believe that the regulatory path is the most appropriate, and we believe that in this way, by this way, much of the problems related to the heritage that can be given, especially when given in a more... Not premeditated. That is why we voted yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u123	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u124	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. We're planning on... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... ladies, presidents, chief officers, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. The discussion we're discussing today is really interesting, and the problem beneath it really concerns the Basque Socialists. To increase the use of metal detectors is simply a reflection of the elevation of a fetichism, a fetishism which has nothing to do with history or the protection of our legacy. All artifacts, all the rest of the material culture produced and used or used by societies of other times - whether 80 years ago or 800 years ago - have value only for archaeology and historical research if they are known to be situated in their stratigraphic context. We have to understand that archaeological objects are comparable to words, and therefore, for their understanding, the archaeological context is necessary, which, following the similitude, would be grammar. It is useless to pile up words if we are stolen, we are destroyed by the grammatical elements that serve to understand them. En esto creo que todos los los grupos, o por lo menos la garioría de illos, tumos totalmente de auerdo. But as the anti-Sunkong report reflects, and as I've been told this member of the cultural estate, there's no way to fight against this plague in the change of the law of 6/2019. This law plainly establishes the protection of our archaeological rudimentary structures. In like manner, it regulates clearly how one ought to take possession of it, and who has permission to do it. The path we have to follow in our own way is another. For example, my partner and good friend Ana del Val, the socialist representative of culture in the historical territory of Álava, has promoted a campaign aimed at making known, on the one hand, the serious damage that is causing to the archaeological heritage the uncontrolled actions carried out by metal detectors, and, on the other, helping to strengthen the mechanisms of awareness and involvement of citizens in the defense and protection of our cultural heritage. A campaign that warns users of metal detectors of the prohibition of altering protected soil and, even more, of staying with objects of archaeological value. It also informs citizens of the steps to be taken, who should be notified if they witness this activity. We are faced with a serious problem that threatens our cultural heritage. A problem encouraged, as has been well said by different participants, (...) by television programmes, usually of Anglo-Saxon origin, which have nothing to do with our conception of what cultural heritage is and how we want to protect it. But, on the other hand, by video, social networks, etc., etc., that what they do many times is disinform users and users because they are not clearly informed of the crime they may be committing. Removing the subsoil in search of archaeological objects and the subsequent theft of them is an activity that shows an absolute contempt for our history, for our past, for the necessary protection of a cultural heritage that we must preserve and transmit as a fundamental part of our identity. Of course, the Socialists believe that it is necessary to continue along that path. It is necessary to combine the efforts and commitment of all the institutions, including that of this Parliament. We therefore invite all groups to keep this debate alive, to explore ways to strengthen awareness, information, but also to develop and improve complaint channels, as well as the reinforcement and training of the Ertzaintza and local police. Because much remains to be done, and I am convinced that many of the groups present here fully share the underlying concern. Today we Socialists voted unfavorably, because what we do not share is the way we are being proposed. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. and Mrs. President. Good morning. In short, we voted negative, as you have seen, based on the opinion of the Government. In fact, we have shown what is required of the law in a private −, that is, the metal detector regulates the laws already established. 64. In the article the archaeological activity regulates the laws which we have already established, and in it the activity of metal detectors and similar activities is marked as a geophysic projection. It is a definition given exactly that the gephysic projection is the study of the earth, which is made through physical science. After that, it regulates the use of metal detectors in article 66. And in synthesis, it is the Government and Aldudias that are to give that permission. 84. In the article they have exact rules of punishment, that is to say, they cut down the rules of fines. And the practice of the metal detectors we are talking about defines the laws we now have in force as a serious violation of these rules. Thus the law receives what you demand, and metal detectors are regulated in the law we are now in. And, therefore, we do not see the right way to make any change, at least in the direction to which it is requisite to-day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-eight.
