ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I inform you that point 3 will be discussed in 5th place; and 5th. Point three. That point 6 has been abandoned for another time. First point in theme list: "The resolution of the organization, of the Governor, and of the Security Committee, on the bill of law on the civil press of eucalypice. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u1	Mr. President, president, chief of departments, congressman, good morning to all. Today I appear in front of the whole meeting of this parliament to discuss the legal project of the civil euchariter resource, in order to defend the project introduced by the MUDI. This bill of law was accepted by the Council in June 2021, fulfilling what had been planned in the U.S.P.E. Ever since then, he's been in the hands of the legislature until he came to the full meeting. It is a very technical law, a very imperfect one: five articles, three formal regulations, and one last regulation. In short, as to the judicial debates which lead to the civil law of euscal, it is intended to assume conditions in the Central Court of the Esquimenia of the Equire. Before entering the contents expressly, I would like to take a little time to explain the importance and precedent of a man's legal project. At the present day, and in 1989, as the Central Court of Justice was founded, against the judges or decisions given by the Province courts of justice or the courts of justice, we may appeal to the Book of Justice in the United Court, when we are to judge by the laws and by the rules given by natural institutions of Europe. In civil order this is already approved by the law of the Civil procedure. Sit down, you can sit down. But as to the cases in which resource is to be exhibited, and its tramitation, the law of the Common-wealth of the Civill procedure is what ought to be applied. And since there are no natural rules, the Chief Court has had to continue to apply that rule. But in this law of the State of Civil Procedure, the conditions are sufficiently severe. Too strict for the reality of our civil rights. Our civil law has certain peculiarities, which answer to the quality of our society, and distinguish them from the common civil law. In practice, the regulation of the state is not to be referred to our reality in the parlour of the civil court of justice, in all these years, to give but a few judgements in the jurisdiction of the civil law of Euscal. In fact, this little volume of the judges is extremely difficult to combine a doctrine of the civil law of the court of Justice. A doctrine that would help our civil law to develop and strengthen. That's why we need this rule that holds the peculiarities of the self-destruction of the Civil Law of Euskal. Therefore, this regulation responds to the need to promote a rule that collects the specialties of cassation appeal. That it adapts to the particularities and needs of Basque civil law, so that it can be seen that there may be more cases that come to cassation, so that our High Court of Justice... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... and the needs of Basque civil law so that there may be more cases that come to cassation for our High Court of Justice to rule more often. In this way we would have a judicial analysis and a doctrine that would enrich and improve our own civil law. Please note that the rules governing civil cassation in the State are designed to deal with nothing less than a volume of 2,500 to 7,000 new cases in cassation, which each year enter the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court. To attend to understand what this means, to set an example, in 2019 the Supreme produced 4,763 sentences in civil cassation. This, of course, conditions the procedural design scheme guided by the logical concern to manage this huge amount of resources that are presented in the State. In autonomous communities with their own civil rights, however, the problem has been just the opposite. With a much smaller volume of resources submitted, more resources are needed to generate sufficient jurisprudence. That the regulation of the current Civil Prosecution Act does not allow. Thus, in the absence of proper regulation and adapted to our own civil law, the Euskadi High Court of Justice between 1989 and 2020 had only handed down 131 judgments in civil jurisdiction. That is, less than four sentences a year. Take a good look. Four rulings by the High Court of Justice, compared to the more than 4,700 rulings of the Supreme Court. Clearly, this implies a limited baggage of our High Court of Justice in order to be able to build a doctrine worthy of study. Therefore, we want to equip ourselves with this own regulation and eliminate the requirement of amount, focusing on strengthening access for spousal interest. This has been done by other autonomous communities with their own civil rights, such as Galicia, Aragon and Catalonia. Communities that have their own cassation law and have changed the minimum amount requirement, some have reduced it, as in Aragon; others have eliminated it, such as Galicia or Catalonia. This has led to a considerable improvement in the volume of judgements handed down by their higher courts of justice. Therefore, what we intend to improve in Euskadi with this law is access to the remedy on the basis of the competence of Euskadi to deal with this issue, which is firmly supported by Article 10.6 of the Statute of Guernica. On the occasion of this regulation, the preliminary draft law on procedural efficiency measures of the Public Justice Service, which aims to reform the cassation appeal at the state level after an evaluation of the current cassation model, contains the following text: "On the one hand, it is a matter of simplifying the conception of the appeal by providing for a single cassation appeal that does not depend on the type or amount of the process and that falls within the cassational interest of the interpretation of both substantive and procedural rules". That is to say, this is just what Euskadi proposes this law that we expect today to be adopted. In this way, the amount requirement, EUR 600,000, will not prevent or hinder access to cassation to issues that, despite their importance or the cassational interest, their economic quantification is scarce or impossible. Thus, the concept of cassational interest is defined and simplified, so that where there is no case law on the issue or provincial hearings have conflicting decisions, the High Court of Justice can be heard, regardless of the time of application of the rule and whenever it is necessary to modify the doctrine by the evolution of the social reality. In this way, it is foreseeable that there will be more matters under discussion on a case-by-case basis. This facilitates the unifying role of doctrine in Basque civil law exercised by the High Court of Justice. Well, once I have shared with you the reasons for the need to have this rule, I would like to highlight two developments that are envisaged in it, in addition to those already mentioned. On the one hand, it takes place in what must be understood as civil law for the purposes of this remedy, and it takes into account the rules which may or may not be the subject of the infringement. On the other hand, the subject-matter of the appeal is extended, also to the final orders of substantive content issued by the provincial appeals hearings, always, of course, that there is a transactional interest. In short, this is a short but substantial law, since it provides us with its own regulation in relation to an instrument such as the civil cassation remedy, and it will help to strengthen that remedy as a fundamental tool to ensure uniformity in the judicial application of our civil law. As Basque civil law is the direct heir to the courts, the basis of our historical rights, it is a fact that the courts themselves recognized our right to be tried by our own judges, and contained profusion of procedural rules. There is a whole title, Title 29, dedicated to regulating the system of appeals and appeals, including the appeal to the Major Judge of Vizcaya, which was a specific jurisdiction within the Valladolid Chancellery, different and exclusive from the other judges and courts of the kingdom. It was the most suffering, saving the distances, what we would call an out-of-court cassation appeal. If anyone has a historical curiosity, I recommend reading Law IV of Title 29 of the Fuero de Vizcaya, which precisely regulated which lawsuits could be appealed to the Major Judge of Vizcaya in the Chancellery. And it is that this comes very much to the case of what we are mainly regulating today. The minimum amount in the appeal to the Major Judge of Biscay and the Chancellery was already regulated in the court, but did not originally exist. Moreover, the use of the Chancellery was new ten or 12 years earlier, we are talking about 1,514 more or less, and it was the vizcaínos themselves who requested that a minimum amount be established to limit access for two reasons: one, for the number of lawsuits, and two, because there was the concern that judges... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... a minimum amount to limit access for two reasons: one, for the number of cases, and two, because there was concern that the superior judges of the Royal High Court would proceed more in accordance with Kingdom law than under the Bizkaia Foreign Court, which was applicable with preference. It was intended to encourage, in the end, that the lawsuits should be resolved and that they should be resolved as far as possible within the territory. We are about to accept a law which is the direct heir of Euscala to the civil law, and which is the image of the Arbol of Guernica, and under the mark of this legislature made of wood, I would not omit this ancient precedent in my intervention. I think it's very clear how far this law has to do with our historical rights, our self-interest. Today, as at the present day, we people of euscals want to end civil causes in the Basque jurisdiction organs, in all instances and degrees. Now this is the case with the 14th State of Guernica. articles. In particular, when the law of nature is to be applied, it is better to interpret and apply it. And of course, not applying the common law when it is proper to apply our justice. This law is a step ahead within the scope of our self-reference. Hence, however small a law may be, its importance is enormous. And it's particularly welcome to this chief physician and to be admitted today to all my crew in this Chamber. I'm going to finish. By this law we will regulate the customs of the civil system. And thus we hope to contribute to the development and consolidation of our civil law, by applying uniform criteria for the good of the euscal society. I want to thank all the operators who helped make this text rich. I want to make a special remark on this line to the Civil Law Committee, whose role has been decisive at the time of the promotion of this law. And, of course, it is also thanks to the groups of this legislature for the honesty and interest you have shown in the formation of this law. Undoubtedly we are developing and developing our civil rights today, our self-generacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Next, we're going to the teams' turn. Missat's gone. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, as the councillor has said, a law, a draft law, already at the final stage of the committee's opinion, on the law of the Basque civil cassation appeal is put to the vote of this plenary. It is a very technical law, as the Councillor has also mentioned earlier, that what she does is not that she creates the civil cassation appeal for infringement of foreign or special civil law, it already existed. What he does is to establish a series of modifications, which is understood, what they will allow the courts to assume, and above all, to admit more cases in order to thus create, say, a pose, a jurisprudence substrate, a series of jurisprudence that will help to develop..., not only to develop this right, but above all to gradually solve certain issues that are complex in a right that is tremendously fragmented, and perhaps in its very nature is to be a tremendously fragmentary right. The counselor has also chosen to make a number of historical references. It has given some numbers in comparison with the Supreme Court's cassation appeals. Man, to compare things, they have to be comparable, don't they? One thing is the remedy, an appeal for procedural infringement of civil law foral or special, and another thing is the cassation in general terms, but well, it is good and it is necessary. Our group also confirms it and defends it. As for the mention he has made, it would also be interesting the speech he has made historical, right?, what happens, that you have to make points, counselor, you know. Your team sure knows, if I don't tell them anymore. They already knew that Valladolid's chancillery had a room not for the Basques, for the Vizcains, eh?, eye. Of course, it's just that you start mixing Basque outlaw civil law, then you get me into Valladolid's chancilerie, let's see, history is what it is, not what we want it to be, but in any case, I'm not going into historical disquisitions, although you're the one who's started with the subject. But I do want to point out a few questions about a law to which our group is going to give its support for the reasons that I have already explained in committee, and which it explained here in particular right now. Look, as far as processing is concerned, it is worth highlighting, as the Counsellor would have done, a couple of issues relating to what has been the processing of this law. First of all, it is a law in which they have played a very important role, they have played a very important role, let us say, institutions which formally or informally because they are also responsible for maintaining, and above all, the study of special civil law, not only the commission mentioned by the adviser who has played a fundamental role, but also the Basque Academy of Law itself, which, by the way, sent to the members of the commission an interesting study, an analysis of the law which in addition, or the draft law, which also included a number of proposals, proposals for improvement. As far as the parliamentary procedure has been concerned, and this is where I have no choice but to make this criticism, I believe that in the parliamentary procedure the groups supporting the Government could have had a somewhat more receptive attitude towards the amendments proposed by the various groups; that is, logically because they have an absolute majority, and of course they have the capacity to absolutely reject all the amendments proposed, whatever they may be. But I think that being this law a law that we pretend to be technical, that we pretend to be, moreover, a law that has a continuity in the extended time, above all, and that it is a law that we understand that it should be an apolitical entity, right?, a technical law for citizenship aimed precisely at improving living conditions, and in this case, on the subject of the procedural issue, because we did understand that it was or would have been convenient to introduce some issues that we understood to be technical, the groups of the Government understood that they were not technical, but well, I imagine that they will already explain it much better than I in this forum. In any case, despite... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... We understood that they were technical. Government groups understood that they were not technical. But, well, I guess they'll explain it a lot better than me in this rostrum. In any case, despite the fact that, I insist, the groups supporting the Government have not admitted a single amendment, just some technical question, but in order to modify errors brought about by the law itself, not errors, let us say, of package, legal ones, but above all some error that it had and some issue that was in the final version that was sent to this House, since no amendment has been admitted. So, of course, from a parliamentary point of view too, the truth is that they always ask for acts of generosity by the rest of the groups in the House, when in some cases because one does not always show enough generosity. Our group, as I say, has always been in favour of approving this amendment of the law, of the process, especially because we also understood that what is known in procedural law as the summa taxaminis, which was a quantity in the band of the 600,000 euros, because, in fact, it made it difficult to admit to the process of a number of matters that would contribute, especially because of the specificity of the civil rights outside, the vizcay, and then already the rest of the... since the Basque Foreign Civil Law Act 2015. That is why, I insist, we abstained from the committee, but also because of an issue of what the process had been. We have already announced that we would support this law, as we will. We are going to abstain from the amendments tabled by the Elkarrekin parliamentary group. We can and will vote in favour of the law and of all the elements involved. Above all because, moreover, I insist that it has been an experience, which I believe should also be produced more in this Parliament, in which certain technical institutions, not only social ones, which sometimes also have certain initiatives, are also allowed to present proposals and proposals which have a logical interest in citizenship. Valuation of this law. This law does not create the remedy of cassation. The remedy of cassation already existed, already existed. I understand that I advise you because you have to put together a justification for why a bill is passed and brought in. But, well, it improves the system we already had. It introduces very important changes. For those who are interested in the outlaw civil cassation of the outlaw or special civil law of our land, and above all because I believe that there are members here in the public because they are quite aware of what is happening here right now in this Parliament, I will tell you that obviously... This law is very curious, because, as the Counsellor has said, it is a very short law - five articles, I think I recall - and the provisions, three transitional and one final provision - but above all here the crux of the matter is mainly in article 3, specifically in article 3.3, which sets out the grounds on which it will be possible to admit therefore certain court decisions precisely to carry out that process and that process and then to develop the law itself accordingly. I say that it is curious because being what is the legal text itself very brief, instead this has to be complemented by the abnormally long, in this case, Exhibition of Reasons, what it does precisely... I say that it is curious because as a legislative technique it is not very common, but it is the one that has been used in this case. What he does is to explain in enough detail what he then understands will mean those requirements of admission or non-admission of judgements and orders on the merits in the case of such remedies. I say, therefore, that Article 3.3 and the whole part of the Explanatory Memorandum, which is quite long, is dedicated, let us say, to giving light to what this article implies, because it will be interesting. And surely the members of the Basque Academy of Law or of the Commission, as well as the councillor's own team, who I know are always very good at studying these issues also from a technical point of view, because it will take them time and, above all, it will take them a... it will therefore involve a dogmatic exercise and a technical exercise, which in this case will also benefit society itself. Finally, a question. This is also a law that maintains and normalizes what is the relationship between the courts themselves, the judicial plant in Spain. And, logically, it also maintains the Supreme Court - that court which here some groups do not do much grace to them sometimes - it also maintains the Supreme Court ultimately as an organ which will also contribute to the unification and improvement of... and the interpretation of civil law foral or special. Therefore, in conclusion, we believe that it is a law that makes contributions that are good, that are positive. It is a law that came with the endorsement of institutions that are loved, appreciated in our society. It is a pity that the groups of the Government - I understand that with the knowledge of the Government - have rejected some amendments that have been tabled by both the Elkarrekin Podemos group and ourselves, which were based on reports sent by, among others, the Basque Academy of Law. It is a pity that these technical improvements have not been included, I insist. But, well, still, we are going to support it because, as I say, it improves the situation, normalizes or, above all, allows an institutionalization of the civil law foral or special, which is also part of Spanish law, with that role that the Supreme Court retains, and therefore we believe that it will be very positive for society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to all. I do not lie in acknowledging that the civil cassation appeal was a completely unknown matter to me at the beginning of this legislature. An essentially legal question, of a very technical nature, which was far from me and with which I have become familiar through the processing of this bill. For that reason, they will allow me to speak a little pedagogically in a certain way, on the basis that not all people are familiar with the legal world, so it is also not necessary to demand more clarity and accessibility to the law, even more so when it comes to such technical laws. The cassation appeal becomes the gateway to the last link of ordinary civil jurisdiction in Euskadi. An appeal which is brought and brought before the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and which may deal with matters of a very diverse nature, and because there is an outside civil law of its own in this territory, as is the case in other parts of the State, covering matters as diverse as inheritance, property law or the property regime in marriage. However... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... it occurs in other parts of the State, which covers issues as diverse as succession, property law or the matrimonial property regime. To date, however, the remedy of cassation in matters of civil law was governed by State law; the Civil Prosecution Act in particular. And so far, we did not have a procedural rule that would respond to the particularities of our right. Today this changes with the adoption of the opinion in plenary. And, from today, we will have a procedural tool that recognizes and suits the legal particulars of our territory. No one can escape, however, that in this Parliament we are not pioneers in this matter, but rather we are behind schedule. Galicia, Aragon and Catalonia, as mentioned above, already have their respective regulations. The first two counts before 2005, and Catalonia approved it in 2012. Euskadi arrives in 2022. In any case, this law comes to cover a need that the common legislation failed to cover, the need to widen the door of entry the cassation for many matters that arise within the framework of Basque foreign civil law. In this sense, one of the appearances we had the opportunity to hear was very illustrative. Thus, as we were told, and with the data we have from 2010, the High Court of Justice from 2010 to 2015 has issued only four judgements and six orders. And with the adoption in 2015 of the Basque Civil Law Act, there was a change of trend with the cars, but not with the sentences. And since 2016, only six sentences and 36 orders have been issued. This reality shows us, therefore, that the requirements or conditions for access to cassation provided for in the Civil Procedure Act, the Basque civil law orders come to an end to this instance, and there are few matters of great social importance that have not been able to access this remedy. And we wonder why. Because the requirements of civil cassation appeal do not address the particular needs of outside rights, and in particular, in what we are dealing with today's speciality of our right. For this reason, the fundamental change from the common rule that introduces the law that we are going to pass today in this House is the redefinition of access to cassation. This redefining will bring more legal guarantees from access to cassation for various reasons. First, adapting to the Basque reality will allow a greater number of disputes to access this remedy, which will be beneficial in terms of access to the right of access to justice. At the same time, the issuance of more decisions will enable the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country to create a significant doctrine in both qualitative and quantitative terms. And a proper procedural regulation of the cassation remedy will help to strengthen and develop our own civil law. In short, for our parliamentary group, the positive keys to the law that we are going to adopt lie in three issues. On the one hand, as mentioned above, a reasoned statement of reasons worked out and argued. On the second question, whether judgments and orders are to be regarded as decisions which can be appealed against. And finally, the description of the assumptions of marital interest. Article 4 relaxes and expands the concept of cassational interest, unlike the common regulation, and eliminates the amount requirement that is disproportionate. So far, as has been mentioned, the amount requirement was more than EUR 600,000, and, in the light of the disputes raised in our civil law, it is quite broad. The law that we will finally pass today has not changed much and is very similar to the original text presented by the Government. Its processing up to here has been brief and quick, as it has generated very little controversy since the start of the project. In fact, it has (...) a broad consensus on the part of all groups, which was reflected in the particularly technical nature of the amendments tabled. And for the same reason, we could expect more dialogue and ambition in addressing this project. On the amendments that we have tabled and reserved, I would like to stress, on the one hand, that we have introduced a series of technical amendments which we believe would give the law greater clarity and rigour, also following the recommendations of the respondents. And on the other hand, in which it is certainly our most ambitious amendment, we introduced an amendment to Article No. 4, which increased the assumptions of cassational interest. We understand that the cases of cassational interest had room for improvement and, in particular, the inclusion of a new final case in line with the provisions of future state legislation. We wanted, in this way, to be as secure as possible and to have as broad a cassational interest as possible. In this way, we also better respond to the needs of our own right and that of our own citizens. We are aware that these amendments are not going to succeed and this is also not going to be an obstacle for our parliamentary group to vote in favour. But we want to record its importance and content in full, as we firmly believe that a more comprehensive and technically appropriate law and standard could have been made. However, as I have already said, our group will vote in favour of the Commission's opinion. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u6	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President, the Vence Prefector, the Chiefs, the congressmen, all good days. We have for your approval the bill of the Basque civil cassation appeal. A very short and technical bill, and with a very extensive development of its explanatory statement. Those who have spoken before me have already said so. The Sailburu has already explained to us the reasons that have led to articulate this bill and the contents, so I am not going to repeat what has already been said, but I would like to focus on some aspect. Despite its briefness, this bill has such important objectives as to strengthen guarantees of the protection of citizens'rights in order to strengthen the cassation remedy as an excellent instrument to ensure uniformity in the judicial application of the law. What we intend to do here, in Euskadi, with this bill that is expected today... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... to ensure uniformity in the judicial application of the law. What is intended to be done here in Euskadi with this bill that is expected to be passed today with the votes of the Basque Socialists, is nothing more or less than what other autonomous communities such as Catalonia, Galicia and Aragon have done, which have dictated their own laws of cassation, in accordance with the singularities of their civil, foral or special right of their own. What is proposed for Euskadi in this law, what is proposed for Euskadi is also provided for in the preliminary draft law of the Government of Spain on measures of procedural efficiency of the public service of justice, which aims to completely reform the remedy of cassation at the state level, simplifying the conception of the remedy by providing for a single remedy of cassation, which does not depend on the type or the amount of the process; and which falls within the cassational interest of the interpretation of the rules, both substantive and procedural. The rule presented and defended today by the Basque Government is a necessary rule for collecting the particularities of the cassation appeal in the field of Basque civil law and the peculiarities and needs of Basque civil law. To adapt, in short, the conditions for being able to bring the appeal of cassation to the size and dimension of our reality, so that there are more matters under discussion on a cassational basis, thus facilitating the unifying role of doctrine in Basque civil law exercised by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. The bill also has an obvious modernizing purpose and seeks to adapt to the social reality of the present time, so that new issues and realities that have emerged are better studied and dealt with, while continuing to address the issues of the Basque civil law. All objectives that the Basque Socialist Group also share and support. This is a bill as technical and complex as it is necessary to enrich and improve Basque civil law. And we Socialists are glad that it is going to be adopted with so much consensus, not only from the groups that we support the Government, but also from the groups that are represented in this House. I finish, but not without thanking the Basque Civil Law Commission for the impetus of this law, the experts, all the experts who have participated, their contributions, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, Mr Angulo and Mr Gordillo, their extended hand and their talent. And, of course, Mrs. Berasaluze. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u8	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u9	Thank you, Chief. The principal end of this law has also been made clear in the present day, is the development and establishment of the civil law of Euscal. The ordinary law of civil procedure, which has hitherto been applicable, cannot answer for all the disputes which are made in the field of the civil law of the eucophalia. Therefore we believe that the development of civil rights is indispensable to us. And this law is thought to be the right way, as well as not. As we have said from the beginning, we agree with the fundamental principle and purpose of this law, and we believe it to be a step forward. Although this law has not been approved of by our parliamentary groups and other groups of men, yet, considering the ends of the law's foundation, we still retain the same original idea. In the power we said that our partial corrections were created in order to change the precise writing, comprehension, or flaws of the law. But these corrections were not entirely born, because we had every moment been based on the legal report which the Euskal Academy of Law had sent to the parliament. In this sense, we would like to praise and value the work of the Euscal Academy of Law, which, in this case, made all the necessary lights and specifications. But we know that their labour is much wider, and in general useful to our justice. In respect to this law, we know that it is a very specific law. We've heard all the stories about this April today. He's also pretty fat, and special, we've had enough of him to start his work. He refers it to the use of Euscal, and may be a stranger to many, but those who labour and study in the field of justice in this country have received it with a good eye, and will use this law in the future. Thus it seems to us an interesting exercise of the interest of self-preservation in this law. And in cases justified, for instance, the interest of self-possession is extended by predicting the possibility of adapting itself to the age's context or social reality. And we believe that this is offering to him the dynamical law, and above all the fineness of the day. In this sense, I would like to make a special mention of it, and I would like to bring here what I said when the Chief Mount Garast presented the project. We know that this law will be used by very specific people, and also by very special occasions, because it is a juridic. But in the light of light, and in the sphere of euphoria, the questions of insight appear to us to be real. For this law will be learned by future jurists, and by the pupil whom we have chosen to learn the law by an example (... 'tis in our Universities, and the difficulties which the laws daily require to be understood by their observances, we suffer many. I should like, above all, to proclaim the necessity of making all laws of eucalyplicate, and to place them in the middle of this day, because it is necessary for this people to produce laws in the cradle, to create them from the cradle, and, above all, to be intelligible to any one. It is learned from experience that has been, and I believe that the execution of laws is still difficult in this country, and that we can make a step forward in that area. After this quotation, as has been already mentioned, the development of our own legislation is necessary, and we believe in it, in which we have made use of all our options and use of the civil law of Euscalka, and above all we have to value them.... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... and we believe in it, because we have every opportunity we have of using and employing the civil law of euphora; and especially because we have to use all the instruments we have to put into value. By this law there are actual options for the civil law of Esscal, and we believe that a very important step will be given in this gathering of the present day. In fine, it's the main idea to develop and to-day the civil law of eroscal. By the way, this law is an instrument. The best decision, then, in so far as it is necessary to proceed with this decision, and to develop the civil law of euchar, we shall now vote for the affirmative, as we have said at first. And we hope that we shall continue to develop civil law, the civil law of the Basques, and with such consents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Beras length.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u11	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. The law which we are going to receive today, as you have said before me, is a very short law, but I think it is as important as the short, and so I think it is. This congressman in 2015, Euscala (... He accepted the law, and in it this law is given a clear order in the Chief Court of the Esupal Autonomy (... ) To the Civilians. To combine the doctrine which arises from the reasons given by the laws of the Spanish trial by the laws of the legislature of the Euskal Autonomy, and by the decrees of the Tribunal Courts of the Esquire. But this prediction has not produced the desired result, which is what we are trying to solve today, hasn't it? The Spanish Procession, as has been said before, imposes a pretty strict condition for the use of a self-preservation and to practice it; and since this regulation in the state does not conform to our reality, it is indispensable to us to bring this law which conforms to our reality, and, as we see, to accept it with an extensive consent. And so we believe that the things that are highly rooted in our society and which cause a great social conflict, even the rules of forum, well, outside the courts, will not remain. As I said before, it is a very short law, but only five articles. And, well, I didn't think that understanding the short law would cause so much trouble. It's technical, too, and I've thought that in this transfer I've had a confession with myself after I've been studying law for so many years. And I also join with Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, and the necessity of writing laws in the following manner, and not always to have these texts according to a translation. Because I really think that we have to make a step forward, and it's hard for us to do it, but unfortunately it's still harder to understand. And I think we really have to work out there and move forward. As I have said, it is a law grounded on the peculiarities of our civil law, and the end is also clear; but that they may arrive at the courts of justice at the present day, and that is why they are given.... to give more sentences or resolutions which are now given. These are instances, and it has been mentioned that other autonomy members also have their own civil law: Galicia, Catalonia or Aragon. And after such laws have been received, they have certainly advanced a great step in the progress of their civil rights. Our own civil law is based on principles and foundations that make it different from ordinary civil law: the system of legitimates, truncality, or the regulation of servitude of passage are clear exponents of this. And that is why it is also necessary that procedural legislation, and in particular this Law Regulating Cassation, be adapted to these particularities of our civil law. The law that we passed today - it has been mentioned by all the interveners - has this clear will to increase access to cassation, so the requirement of the amount, as Catalonia and Galicia have already done, is removed; and the concept of cassational interest is concrete and simplified as well, it is broadened. And with that, well, the conditions for the application of cassation will be adapted to the reality of our right. It seeks to open up these procedural requirements, which increase the number of appeals to the High Court of Justice. Well, to finish up, what you all said. The aim is to combine, explain, and reveal the civil law of euphora. After all, losing. The law is necessary, which was demanded by the juridic agents. And as Mrs Garage has well stated, when the law is explained, our auto-gour autogonization will be a great step forward in that self-egory which we are going to give today. And in the end, all I have to do is thank you, too, because our work has made it easier for me to thank you. And as for the representatives of the legislature, Mr. Gordillo, Mr. Angulo, Mrs. Saez de Egilillaz and Mme. Thank you. First of all, thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing the responses, the Basque Popular-Ciudados must not speak. There's no need to talk with Podemus together. Socialist... And, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Let's get this straight. We're done talking, we're going to vote. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] They'll go to the vote together, made by the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudads reserved for the articles of irication: 11th to 20th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 6; contrary to 59; Abstations 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u12	So they didn't accept it. They're going to vote together, together, with Podemos-Nozzeral correction articles made by the team: We can vote from 23 to 27. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 6; opposites 41; Abstations, 25; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u13	So they didn't accept it. The articles and regulations of the judgment which have been corrected at the same time are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 71; the opposites 1; the abstainers are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u14	So they're accepted. The other articles and regulations of judgment, which have not been corrected at the same time, are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 71; the opposites 0; the abstainers are 1. White, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u15	So they're accepted. The explanation will be put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 71; the opposites 0; the abstainers are 1. White, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u16	So it's accepted. He's going to vote at once for the name of the law reserved by the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 6; contrary to 59; Abstations 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u17	Not accepted. The name of the law will be transferred to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 71; the opposites 0; the abstainers are 1. White, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u18	The law of eucalyptus to the civil government is therefore acknowledged. Second point on the subject list: "The legal proposition made together by the Podemos-IU parlamentary team, concerning the mental health of the Esucania Esquimia Ere. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and that's why we're going to argue without having to read it. As it's a side and the opposite turn, you and I are on the side side side, and you're on the side side side with Podemos, someone else on the side? Okay? That's all. So together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u19	Where are you congressmen? The objective with which we present this bill for consideration is to first discuss, and logically, then finally, if it is taken into consideration, to adopt a law that can guarantee the right to the protection of the mental health of all people in Euskadi, and to regulate access to decent and adequate care for those suffering from mental health disorders or pathologies, not only in the health field, but also from the field... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... for those suffering from mental health problems, disorders or pathologies, not only in the health field, but also from the educational, social and other fields, i.e. in an interdisciplinary way. Because mental health is determined by historical, social, economic, cultural, biological and psychological components, whose preservation and improvement implies an integral social construction linked to the human and social rights of all people. All these factors need, in our view, multisectoral policies and interventions to improve them. It is not, therefore, only a question of addressing the issue from the strictly health field, obviously a fundamental one, but not a unique one in dealing with the mental health problems of our community in our society. This law, therefore, would have regulated and cohesion of the actions necessary to a good policy of the Basque People's Mental Health. Insufficient spending on mental health contrasts with the fact that it is a cause of disability that causes more years of loss of life than cardiovascular, cancer or diabetes. Spain, Portugal and Greece are the countries of the European Union where mental health problems condition more years with disabilities, both in the general population and in people under 20 years of age. On the other hand, suicide is the sixth cause of death in the European Union and the first non-natural cause of death in our country. The costs of all mental health problems are enormous, both economic and, logically, social. In developed countries, 38% of diseases correspond to a mental disorder, particularly affecting people of working age, where 50% of diseases are involved. The crisis of the covid has strained, as you know, this situation even more. According to the European Health Survey in Spain 2020, carried out by the INE, the National Institute of Statistics, 12% of the population over the age of 15 had or had had depressive symptoms of different severity, with the frequency of depressive symptoms almost double in women than in men. The increase in people with mental health problems as a result of the pandemic has been noted by several scientific studies in recent years. An increase in mental health problems with the covid, but a problematic situation in relation to public health prior to the covid. The health survey of the Basque Autonomous Community prior to the pandemic already indicated a high prevalence of symptoms and anxiety and depression problems. On the other hand, recent data suggest a significant increase in the number of suicides since the beginning of the pandemic. It should be noted that our Autonomous Community is among the communities with the most significant increase in the number of suicides. Between 2015 and 2020, 76 people under the age of 29 have died of suicide or self-inflicted injuries in our community, according to Eustat, accounting for 7.5% of total suicides in that period. The 2018 survey also found a high prevalence of symptoms of anxiety and depression among adolescents and young people between the ages of 15 and 24, where women accounted for 11% of the prevalence compared to 4.7% of men. Another Unicef study of 2020, initiated by the pandemic, shows how 20%, 27% of adolescents and young people consulted after the first confinement, felt anxiety, 15% depression, 46% less motivation to carry out activities they normally enjoyed, and 73% need to ask for help in relation to their physical and mental well-being, although 40% did not ask for it. It is necessary to say without alarm that suicide has become... became in 2019 the first cause of death in Spanish youth between the ages of 15 and 29, surpassing traffic accidents and tumor death for the first time. While these have been reduced or reduced by 40% and 33%, respectively, suicides have increased by 30%. Therefore, we think that it is necessary to carry out health policy, yes, organized, planned with sufficient resources, both economic and human, to deal with this... – let me say – this crisis, and the challenges in mental health in the short and medium term. In addition, we believe that it is necessary, of course, to bet in this area also on public health in a preferential way; otherwise, only people with resources will be able to receive a quality therapeutic approach, which entails an economic bias, leaving many people behind in a vulnerable situation, and thus increasing the risk of disability, poverty and social exclusion. After what has been said so far, we would like to say that mental health must be considered an absolute priority. According to the World Health Organization's forecast, approximately 25% of the population will have some mental health problem throughout their lives. It's a really thick figure. Situations of vital uncertainty, such as economic crisis, unemployment, job insecurity or social exclusion, create risks to people's mental health. Therefore, there are precise policies and interventions that address the social determinants of mental health. Unfortunately, mental health problems are treated too late and not effectively or satisfactorily many times. Excessive use of psychopharmaceuticals is used from the health care system... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... and not in an effective or satisfactory way many times. The use of psychopharmaceuticals is excessive in the health system, which does not correspond to the prevalence of many of the anxiety and depressive disorders in the population, but rather to the low use of psychological treatment. This is due to the saturation of primary care, as the minutes of average consultation are insufficient to care for patients with this type of specific problems, to whom, in addition, it is sometimes difficult to derive from the consultations of psychology or psychiatry, also at times saturated or with a lot of workload. This is what the experts call care pressure for the primary care physician, who has no choice but to resort to the rapid solution of prescribing at times psychopharmaceuticals. This has meant that between 2000 and 2019 the consumption of anxiolytics has increased by 166 % and that of antidepressants by 173 %. In the meantime, psychological interventions are the first choice treatments, according to international clinical guides, for being the most effective treatments. Also the most cost-effective treatments. In this line, it is observed that for each euro invested in psychological treatments, the Public Service would save between three and five euros. On the other hand, assuming that mental health has an important social component, as we said, and that people have and should have recognized the right to the highest level of physical, psychological and social well-being, it would not seem reasonable to relegate mental health to the private and family spheres, but it is necessary to generate rules that, together with suitable and evaluable public programmes and policies, respond to the needs of the beneficiaries. Mental health problems begin in childhood, showing the first symptoms before the age of 14, and tend to persist until adulthood. According to the World Health Organization, given the emergence of these diseases at an increasingly early age, the impact on the development process of children and adolescents becomes more significant, given the number of areas of personal functioning to which they affect, and their impact on the family as well. These data show the importance of an early detection of what we have also discussed in this Parliament in order to make an early intervention. This goes, logically, far beyond the specific care in Osakidetza, in the health system. Among the psychological problems that most affect the infant-juvenile population are anxiety, depression, behavioural problems, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, substance consumption and abuse, as well as bullying and cyberbullying. All this demonstrates, in our opinion, the need for a multidisciplinary intervention from the primary care and the educational sphere that allows us to draw up a comprehensive policy to alleviate the medium and long-term effects that the pandemic has on childhood and adolescence. Since, as we know, more than 50% of mental disorders in adulthood occur in these periods of childhood and adolescence. Fortunately, we have enough empirical evidence in our country and internationally on how to address the mental health of children and adolescents. Socio-emotional education programmes, as well as teaching emotional skills at school, have been shown to be very effective, yielding results also in terms of very interesting cost-effectiveness. Ultimately, it would be a question of providing greater security to the mentally ill population, to shield the attention that is designed by the Executive in the strategies - then we will discuss a non-legislative proposal on the strategy - and in the plans. A legal text that facilitates access to mental health services, but addresses care in a cross-cutting manner. We believe that this mental health law could be that necessary framework. To create, in short, an appropriate legal framework, specific to this problem, which has been demanding visibility and solutions for a long time. A need that, of course, has been greatly increased during the pandemic. We also intend, therefore, to establish the corresponding actions of the public authorities, in order to achieve full participation and inclusion in society without stigmatization or discrimination, respecting human rights. Some issues that we intend or intend to adopt with this law: increasing ratios of mental health professionals to the European average, creating the figure of the clinical psychologist in primary care, investing in the prevention and promotion of mental health throughout the life cycle, mainly including the field of education for children and adolescents. We also wanted to consider the possibility of a psychological welfare service at the municipal level and of social services, so that anyone who does not meet criteria of common mental disorder can have access to the right to receive psychological care from a public service, as is already being done today from private offices, but this time from the public. In other words, intervention in education, social services, employment policies, housing policies for people with severe mental disorder, protection for people with severe mental disorder in a situation of judicialization, training in mental health, detection and intervention of mental health problems in the workplace, research in mental health, and, of course, in the health field. Moving forward with these and other objectives requires, in our view, the adoption of a rule of law that establishes and guarantees the rights of persons in the field of mental health, as well as the extension and reordering of actions and organizational structures in order to make those rights more effective within the framework of public services in the Basque Country. We ask this Parliament to take into consideration this proposal for a law to start a shared work in which they also participate through their professional appearances in the health field... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... taking into account this proposal for a law to start a shared work in which they also participate through their professional health, educational and social appearances, as well as associations of affected and patients.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u21	Thank you, Chief. And good morning to all. Today the mental health is in the centre of our schedule and political activity, and that's a good thing to do. And it's good that we're beginning to confess the importance of mental health. In this chamber, from the beginning of this legislation, and the first time that we had brought in the affair of mental health, and to this day, we have begun to feel certain changes, and to expect all the efforts and labours which have hitherto been employed, even if little by little, to begin with fruit. We've brought 11 initiatives from the beginning of the legislation to include mental health in the political agenda. If it's in the social agenda, there's a certain mental health concern in our society, and so it's our turn to work out carefully and memoranda in the parliament, to give people answers and instructions. And in this way we've brought 11 initiatives, questions, information demands, illegal proposals, interferences, visitors, signs of operators. Hence, in the last and middle of the year, there have been psychiatrists from the Basurto, representatives of the Faith, members of the connection of Kate, and those who are to come, and those who are to come in the future, and all who are gathered in parallel. And from here I want to send our narrowest, warmest embrace to everyone who helps and helps us to go, and generally to everyone who works every day in various parts of mental health. Because we all do it because we all work, and especially because mental health prospers. So, thank you. And we have undertaken to recognize the state of the EAE in mental health, to know how our system is, how our services and programs are, how we are to know what privations and imperfections we have at present, but how to know what are the springs of strength. In short, all the projects which have been made in order to know the whole course, and which is the basis, and especially the present, to draw the future. To design the way we have to do, to answer the hinges we have before us. Because the day is apparent, and it is undeniable that our mental health needs are great. We have often said, but we know that the mental health of children, teenagers, youths, and young people has been worse since the pandemia; that there is a former tendency which has greatly increased, nay, suicide is the principal cause of young men's death. We know that food is multiplied in behavior, especially among young girls. We know there are serious problems in many people who have a pathological day. It is manifest, at least, that in Osare, we suffer from being a woman in mental health treatments. Besides, we know that even now in us there are still great stigmas, taburas, and prejudices about mental health, which excludes and extinguishes persons who are in mental health problems; and that it is difficult to make any one know his own suffering and to demand assistance in time. Reality is there, it's crude. So, what can we do before we have work to do? The people deserve a strong answer and public hold, and they have a right rather than a right to it, because health is a right. But what are these answers? Our responses to both of them have been different. Sometimes we've been close, we've made deals, sometimes it's not possible. The question is, there are more than one possible answer, because there are different ways of abolishing the affair, and of course there are different ways of making politics. That's one of the main issues of today's discussion. We've often said it, and that's why today our plan is to renew the mental health strategy of the EAE and bring it here. And, on the other hand, Podemos makes a proposal of law together. As a matter of fact, I have great doubts about your proposal. There's no doubt that I don't have that light that's got to be the way. Nevertheless, we understand in one way or another that all actions, including this, give place and importance to mental health. We are on the side of opening and giving and giving and giving, and we will always be. And for all that has been said, we think we ought to give this proposition to this law. And so it's our intention to vote "yes." It's just that we're going to be able to argue today at the next point. And for the moment until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Since there's no counter shift, we'll go to the vote. [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] Now that the discussion is over, we will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 26; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u23	So he didn't consider it. We'll go next to the vote. Missa-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, to say that we really share the problem with the proposing training and we share the concern about the current model of mental illness care in the Basque Country. It is certainly worrying, as it was also proved just a few weeks ago in a enlightening appearance of Fedeafes at the Health Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u26	The model, the improved resources, the shortage of professionals, the monitoring of cases and the connection with families - which is generally not the best - are of concern, and the prevention of hospitalizations are also concerned about the little predisposition we see in this Government to recognize that there is room for improvement and that there are many unmet needs. Having said that, in Vox we do not consider it necessary to make a law the best way to ensure adequate care for those people with mental illness. The same as there is no legislation for other types of pathologies also of great impact and gravity. It is clear that there is a need to move towards a new model. I doubt the scientific evidence that advises, for example, to devote a whole chapter, the sixth to be concrete, to the rights of women affected by mental health problems. We believe that it would be much more reasonable to talk about the rights of anyone, given that mental illness is not a patrimony of women, men, children or the elderly, it affects everyone equally. We have repeatedly been able to see that there are problems common to men and women, but there are also pathologies with greater impact on one another and vice versa. In other words, you assume that the mental health care of women and not that of men is deficient. A common mistake in you, in which you incur, in addition, habitually, we believe you are interested. For example, if we talk about suicide, they have been overlooked to say that suicide occurs more among men than among women. No less than 74% of men commit suicide against 26% of women. So, let's talk about concrete data. We think that it is very tiring already his obsession to collect and differentiate between better or worse treated groups, more or less forgotten. By the way, women are not a collective. And their interpretation in this sense always sins of sectarian and partial. Every woman is unique and indivisible, so individual. There are other issues that also raise serious doubts, such as the involvement of people with mental illness in the design of the care model they need. Another thing is to propitiate and shield those of professionals in the sector, as well as those of certain patients. But talking about non-concretion participation is little more than a toast to the sun. Special mention also deserves your proposal to create a large number of entities and agencies linked to your bill, Basque Psychological Welfare Service in social and municipal services, Basque Institute for Studies on Mental Health, Council for the Participation of Mental Health, Office of the Ombudsman for Persons with Mental Health Problems. A whole network of entities of all kinds and conditions that we consider a useless structure, which also aims and promises to condition a quantity of resources, both economic and human, without justification at all and without it reaching the end, which is to the people who really need it. All these reasons I have put forward I think they are more than enough to justify our negative vote on this bill that has been put to us. We also believe that the Basque Government should already exercise self-criticism and demonstrate a serious and genuine commitment to the fight against mental illness. More awareness is needed, more prevention, more intermediate resources to avoid unnecessary hospitalizations, more places in hospitals, better follow-up of each case and greater contact with family members and the environment, more professionals in the social health system, more resources in the educational field and to address seriously the problem of suicide, for example, a problem that is silenced, and despite this, as we see, it is increasing more and more every day. And I have to make a special mention of a few words that one of the spokespersons who spoke said, and said that in Osakidetza we women suffer worse attention because they are women. I believe that this, frankly, is a barbarity and, moreover, an offence against the professionals, who I believe treat women and men equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u27	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Garrido andrea, Popular-Citizens, zurea of hitza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u28	Bai. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Hemos votado... Our vote was against the fact that at the moment we think it's necessary to treat this subject, that the formula which has been decided is not appropriate. We consider it necessary to address the issue of mental health, especially with the figures on the table. Recently we had the opportunity to know, yes, circumscribed to what is the mental health of childhood and adolescence, a report by Fedeafes, of the Federation of Associations of Persons and Families with Mental Illness in Euskadi... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... circumscribed to what is the mental health of childhood and adolescence, a report by Fedeafes, of the Federation of Associations of Persons and Families with Mental Illness in Euskadi. And it was a very illustrative report in relation to the situation and the X-ray we have at the moment in relation to people suffering from mental illness. The study was marked, especially, as I say, in the juvenile infant population. From the People-Citizens Group, we believe that this issue must be a priority issue, and in this regard, it must take a prominent place on the public agenda of the relevant institutions. But I have to say that for us the formula chosen by the proposing group, Elkarrekin Podemos, is not the right one. If we want to address this issue through a legal text, I think (?It would have been more convenient. And if it is such an important issue, having done so through a bill that belongs to the Government, and which, moreover, is accompanied by all the mandatory reports, and therefore, it is an initiative of a larger entity, without obviously demerging the initiative that belongs to the groups as well. But, given the initiative, we in that sense understand that it could have been more rigorous than it is. And, on the other hand, then let's discuss one point. The adviser herself in April announced that the Basque Government is developing a strategy, and I believe that resources must also be optimised. I believe that it is desirable for the Basque Government at this time to focus on addressing and developing that strategy which is presented in the Basque Parliament. We too, from the group I represent, believe that such a strategy must be a strategy that includes a diagnosis of the reality we have, the priority axes of action or strategic lines with the measures to be implemented, or actions from the various fields, because it must also be pointed out that this is an issue that affects many areas and must be cross-cutting and with a timetable of action, a budget and an evaluation of the same strategy. Therefore, we will be careful, we will be demanding, that this strategy meet all these requirements to address as it deserves this moment mental health and mental health problems, the mental health disorders that the population in Euskadi is suffering at this time, and that have been increasing, as all the data reflect, also suicide rates, as has been said here. In that regard, we believe that the Basque Government should do what it has to do in this area. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u29	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u30	Thank you, President. Socialists are not closed to the debate about whether a mental health law is necessary in the autonomic sphere. As you know, mental health is a matter of concern to us and of concern to us. In the Government's own agreement we introduced this issue, and as you know, last October 28th we announced in this very rostrum that the Government would develop a series of specific actions in mental health that would include greater investment, staffing of professionals, and that would culminate in the elaboration of a new Basque mental health strategy, which we will develop at the next point of this very plenary session. As I say to you, the debate on whether or not an autonomous law on mental health is necessary is open, but it is not peaceful. But I am not going to stop at this point, especially in view of the fact that in the Congress of Deputies there is a proposal for a law put forward by Podemos on this subject which the Socialists have voted in favour of in its proceedings. But the proposal for a law that has been brought to this Parliament today is, to a large extent, a copy of that law of the Congress of Deputies, with some efforts that I understand are quite abstract to bring down to the Basque reality. And it does not seem to us that this is too serious, especially since in the proposal of the Congress the proposing group has included a third final provision which declares the basic nature of the whole of that law under the exclusive competence to determine the bases and general coordination of Health. And that is what we do not see, because today we have been asked a proposal for a law in the Basque Parliament when in Congress a law is being processed that according to that basic character that the proposing group itself has wanted to invoke, the autonomous communities will have to develop according to our peculiarities and competences, yes, but once it is approved in the General Courts. Therefore, it is not understood that this text should be brought when the proposing group itself has proposed in Congress that the autonomous communities should wait for what is approved in Congress because it will have a basic character. Moreover, it is in the same text that they determine that it is the Government of Spain that makes all the regulatory development of the law. I know that this is an issue that can escape the general perception of citizenship, but the truth is that I believe it makes it clear that the proposal made today did not obey so much to use this House as a legislative House, but rather as a chamber of resonance, and that is why we voted against it. The debate on mental health that the pandemic opens for us must be an opportunity to recognize and repair injustices, to recognize mental health as a state of individual and collective well-being, with as much or more importance than physical health, and to agree to devote the resources it needs. The Socialists are committed to it. We will continue to work for the moment with the instruments we already have. We want and will increase investment and mental health professionals. Implement a cross-cutting and participatory model that gives a comprehensive response from our socio-health system, and of course, here in Euskadi to develop this new mental health strategy that addresses the new needs identified. And we're going to do all that with or without Congressional law, or with and without autonomous law. That's our commitment and we're moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u32	Thank you, chief of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. We have voted against considering this proposition of legislation, not because it is translated text, but because we have two very important points of view. On the one hand, content, or rather content, and, on the other, container... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...of this proposition. On the one hand, either content, or rather content, and, on the other, content-the same instrument, they propose to us to receive them in a law. On this proposal for a law, we have a well-founded view long before the Government issued its agreement to demonstrate the criterion for consideration. I could say, in a way, that we had an opinion even before you registered the proposal. We were familiar with the bill that they submitted to Congress. And if I had to hold the intervention of our colleague Josune Gorospe in defense of our position in that session of Congress, I am clear what this title would be: "A deeply important issue, but the proposal of law is not the way." That is not the right continent to advance in mental health. In addition, we must respond with seriousness, rigour and running away seems to be a need to get headlines. We also understood that in our constant view of defence of the competition framework there are clear competitive invasions. By way of example, the figure of the Office of the Ombudsman in Mental Health, article 38 in that proposal of the Congress, and article 54 in that proposal. We already have the Ararteko, Mr Hernández, who among his functions has this defence perfectly attributed to him. As an example. On 8 February, the Government expressed its unfavorable view, with a three-point argument that we certainly share. But with a focus on content, we would like to underline - there are, of course, more - but we would like to underline three issues of the proposal. One, a global character or global content we could say of the story. Since the explanatory statement, the proposed law has been imbued with apriorisms not supported by scientific evidence. By not distinguishing between symptoms and mental disorders, psychologization and psychiatrization of phenomena that have nothing to do with mental disorders as defined by the World Health Organization can be generated. This text is, in our view, imbued with assertions that come from lands far from the clinical care of mental disorders, and systematically confuses the adaptive response of the human being to the difficulties or the mere appearance of certain symptoms - such as tiredness, discontent, concern - with mental disorders. Another content that we would like to underline, a more specific content, the use of drugs. Indeed, it is a very specific but very relevant issue because of its social and clinical presence, and it is related to the alleged abuse of drugs expressed in paragraph 3, paragraph 2, of the explanatory statement. Obviously, these drugs are effective. A systematic review has concluded, contrary to some false prejudices, that psychopharmaceuticals as a whole are no less effective than any other general medical drug. I can give you a scientific reference to this study. Examples in clinical practice are innumerable and widely supported by scientific literature. It is a fact that good adherence to psychiatric treatment is associated not only with better control of the disease, but with lower risk of suicide or even lower overall mortality in diseases such as depression, schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. I can offer you the references if you think it is appropriate. This goes against all international clinical guidelines and the criteria of all regulatory agencies. And to conclude, a content to our worrying opinion: stigmatization. We are told that they are concerned about the obvious stigmatization of mental disorders and mental health in relation to other areas of health. And what they're asking us is that mental health has a specific law. And I link with what Mrs Gorospe said and the first point in the Government's argument, that is, we are asked to regulate by specific law, which is something that is not done in any other area of medicine. They take it that people with mental disorders should be treated differently from other people. And it seems to us that they imply that people who are mental health professionals do not do a good job, or they seem to say that society should be protected from them. These three elements, in our opinion, as an example, are indeed examples...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u34	... of stigmatization. For all that, for all that I have explained to you, we have voted against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by Maria Garde Ramirez, the parliamentary members of the EH team, the new mental strategy strategy of the Esquimic Autonomia Erria. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Garde, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u36	Yeah. Thank you again, Chief. Well, I won't repeat what I've said before, but would I say it? because we believe in gathering the Basque People that mental health is on the brink of a change of paradigm. And that's why he's in the middle of the social political agenda and that the pandemics have also affected it. And maybe that's how it sounds very cold, but it's been in different points through history. And we really think at the moment it's time to give us a quantum jump. And where? And how? Well, where to? The definitions and direction of the World Organization of Health long ago marked. In other words, since health is a perfect physical, mental, and social well-being, it is not only to understand that sickness or want of disease but that mental health is an integral element of health. And so there is no health without mental health. And this is the way to understand and realize. This is the paradigm shift: understanding and, therefore, acting on the basis that mental health is not being good or bad of the head; it is assuming that mental health is closely linked to the well-being of people, and that we have to address it not only from biomedical parameters, but also from social parameters, and that, in the basics, this is summed up in that there is no health without mental health. So... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... biomedical parameters, but also from social parameters. And that in the basics, this is summed up in that there is no health without mental health. The mental health, therefore, is a collective or individual state of well-being, and so is the uneasiness and concern of the community and of the government. To promote the public's mental health, to look after it and care for it, and how? How do you do that? How to allow change? How do we deal with our problems and challenges before us? Well, we need new and solid tools on that one. And in this way we have brought this discussion about the new strategy, because we really believe that it may be a proper tool to establish both startings, and from that point onwards to continue the work. Pensamos que ser una hatemina muy válida para de el cagaino a seguir los próximus años y specranos que a la heighta de los retos que no ses presenta. And I'd like to emphasize two things on this point. One with: We think we're a little late, pero well más vale tarde que nunca. And these words are also of great use to me to talk about the agreement which was brought up yesterday, because for the first time we have the agreement and agreement about minimum; and I think it's really interesting. In the first proposal about mental health, I made the request of the subject, and we got it back in a year, and we're happy. We had many doubts about this new strategy, and so many of our keys, which were important to us, were to be there and to receive and receive. And I want to mention some, and it would be the first share. I mean that this strategy is not just an exercise of division and council, but that there is a minimum way of making a strategy and not causing us to act, but in order to produce those who work every day in mental health and who live these realities, isn't it? And to be able to contribute to it and to be involved in its contributions. And that's achieved. The very extraordinary strategy of the genus is to have a view of the genus, and to have been built from it. Because, on the one hand, the foundation of all public policies that give perspective must be included, but in particular because the consequences of the latest report from the results of the results are very serious, don't they? The fact that these women suffer distinction is a serious matter in the dismemberments of the Osar. And so says the Health World Organization, because being a woman is a risk factor for mental health problems. And it's not a coincidence, no es casalid que seamos las que mayores ratios de enfermedad mental miseros y además recibamos un trato discerinatoria, el sanitarian system. And to work in transbertality or indirectity, because we are to treat of mental health and of all care: In education, in trade, in social services, in social social society, in social society... And what we've said is that we've got a few things on our way in every negotiation that is normal. But I think that this agreement contains the minimum and gives us all a land to work on, and that's where we're going, and we'll continue to work, and I'd like to thank you to finish it on this point. To the sects that maintain the government by their position and honesty, but also to the Health Department and the Chief of Health, to the Apple of the Gotzan. Really, thank you. And especially Jon Aardz, because we are all conscious that we have been very far away in this matter, and that each of us has been very tight in his own activities; but I am conscious of the labour he has made, I am conscious of. I think we've done our job. We've done that job in the kitchen, −beno, from the café rather than the kitchen, but we've done it, and I think we've made a good deal for the public and for the health suite. That's everybody's goal and most important. And to hope is the first of many others. Because mental health is health. Lo he dicho muchas veces, pero porque creo que no hay salud sin salud mentale. So watch out for what we love, let's take care of the mental health and take care of the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u37	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u38	Thank you. I'll be brief because we... Well, the truth is that we were in agreement with the objective, with the original proposed initiative before us, and I believe that the compromise amendment to which EH Bildu, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi have come, in our view, no elements to criticize on our part. I think they are shared elements that we have talked about many times and that we are glad that they are going to be in that mental health strategy, but we also think that it is nothing new. We think that the mental health strategy had already been announced by the counselor, by the Sailburu, and we understand that the transaction to which they have arrived is that it also seems very... Very similar to the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. We think that it does not represent great changes on what we had so far, we were presenting an amendment with a number of issues, some are collected here, because they are shared, others are not. Therefore, we are going to stand in the way of abstention in relation to elements that are not, not so much the elements that are at the moment. There is one specific one, which may not have to do strictly with what the mental health strategy is, which is about the necessary resources, but which we think is certainly a debate like this in Parliament. We believe that there is a need for a position that resources for mental health care in the health field are currently needed. But as I have also explained in the previous point, the defense of this proposal of law, in other areas that are transversal, but which are of course absolutely essential to give the treatment to mental health in an integral way, which cannot be treated only from the health field. And I think that's one of the arguments that we've put forward that previous proposition... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it cannot be dealt with only from the health field, and I believe that this is one of the arguments for which we have put forward this previous proposal for a law, I do not intend to debate, but you have also used your explanations of vote in some way to debate me. And I take the opportunity that this proposal of law one of the objectives it has is precisely that transversality. And I say this, above all, on a question that I am concerned about, that it is considered that when such an initiative is presented it contributes to stigmatization; that, logically, it is quite the opposite of what my group would want. We believe that mental health is a problem that needs to be addressed far beyond the health field, and that is why we believe that specific legislation can contribute to this without being a reason for stigmatisation. We are going to abstain in the agreement you have reached, as I say. From the agreement to common issues that are gathered here, but from missing issues that we think could have been after a new debate on the subject of mental health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u40	Thank you, Madam President. We also think it proper, and as I have said before, to try and set up a mental strategy of health as soon as possible, considering the data. And this data has been exposed for a long time in the newspapers that MRANK MUY had made. It is advisable to determine clearly what the reasons of this business are, and from this point of view it is proper to make a particular diagnosis. And with this diagnosis, the establishment of that strategy, the different measures that are to be put into action, and the different parts of it. The measure must be transversal, and, as I have said, in different parts; in health, in the rank of social services, in education, even in media, and in several other areas. That's why with this diagnosis and this measure we have to encourage the deadlines and the necessary investments to set up all these measures. And at last, even in yesterday's strategy, the Popular Party and the Ciudadanian initiative presented to it, it was decided that this evaluation should be made every year. It would be advisable to do this evaluation even when this strategy is tested, and to do it every year. With regard to the subject before us, we have also raised in numerous debates the need for a mental health strategy in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In this regard, there are several reports from the Basque Government that are already telling us about this situation. A more specifically focused report on the reality of childhood and adolescence in 2018, which provides information on factors affecting people's mental health. It is also in the 2018 health survey of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And a national survey also on the emotional health of Spanish citizens. Undoubtedly, as has been said here, there are mental disorders that are also increasing as a result of all the uncertainty and the situation of the pandemic itself, and that many citizens and especially some collectives have gone through it badly, such as the elderly, children and young people. On the other hand, all these disorders also have consequences on the quality of life of not only the people who suffer from it, but also their own family members. And, above all, I think we need to focus on problems that are on the table, such as anxiety and depression. And if we also stick to the field of young people and minors, because a prominent place in this strategy has to be the problem of addictions in these groups. This was reflected - and I would like to thank you, although we had the opportunity to do so - in the study presented by Fedeafes, the Federation of Associations of Persons of Mental Illness of Euskadi, Children, Adolescents and Youth with Mental Health Problems in the VAC; where a comprehensive analysis is carried out of the needs of these groups with a diagnosis, the support they currently have, the existing resources and also the areas of improvement - which are many - and in matters and in concrete actions. For us, the solutions - which we share with those mentioned in this report, although I say that they are focused on childhood and adolescence - must be aimed at promoting mental health, at combating the stigma surrounding people suffering from mental disorders, at giving a preventive approach also aimed especially at the childish population, at the care of people suffering from mental disorders, not only those suffering from these situations, but also at families themselves, to continuity in the care of these people. As I said, cross-cutting and inter-departmental care that affects areas such as health, social, educational, research and the media. We also believe that the mental health network in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country needs to be strengthened, and in this sense we have included it in our amendment to this motion... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... We also believe that the mental health network in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country needs to be strengthened. And in this sense we have taken it up in our amendment to this motion, also emphasizing everything that had to do with the coverage of care by the existing professionals that we have... we understand from the group that I represent, that the number of professionals who care for these people needs to be strengthened. We are especially talking about specialists in psychiatry and psychology. And give them continuous training. It is also important to continue to pay attention to these people, especially once the most serious situations arise. In this regard, it is also necessary that hospital care and the response and coverage given to very serious and income situations, given that these people are given adequate care. We also introduced an issue that has to do with the funding of health modules in mental health places, with their increase in funding. This issue has been expressly raised, also yesterday in the motions for resolutions on the demographic challenge debate. And when we talked about dependency and older people, we made a special reference to this issue. It wasn't taken into account. Well, it hasn't been taken into account now either. But we, as we also called for a mental health strategy from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, especially directed and focused on the young child population with a diagnosis, with strategic lines, with measures, with an action plan, with a timetable and with implementation deadlines included in that timetable and with an evaluation, as we are also going to vote in favour of this compromise amendment. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u41	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Socialists have been repeating a maxim that remains relevant to us for a long time. Without mental health, there is simply no health. I believe that this statement makes it possible to identify very clearly the importance that the Socialists attach to this issue. And that is our position in any institution, whether we govern or are in opposition. For us and ourselves, promoting people's psychological, emotional and social well-being is a priority. And of course, regardless of the geographical area in which we are located, because the conditions of mental or emotional health are universal. And if it is a priority, that requires adapting our mental health network in Spain and in Euskadi, in favor of a care model, community, integral, accessible and coordinated. And that is simply what we Socialists are all about, in Euskadi and in Spain. As you know, the Socialists have taken a step forward in the Spanish Government in the area of mental health, moving from debate to action in the attention of a silent pandemic so far. And last December 2, we presented to the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System the Mental Health Strategy for the period 2022-2026. A strategy developed by scientists, agreed and approved by the Autonomous Communities, which have the transferred competences. And more recently, last week, the Plenary of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, approved the Mental Health Action Plan on 2022-2024, in coordination with the Mental Health Strategy, which has 6 priority lines and more than 40 actions, including the training of professionals, awareness-raising activities, or improvements in human resources, among others. Our Autonomous Community has been actively involved in the elaboration of these instruments, and that is positive. And no one can be surprised by the wide coincidences that occur in this matter, because the conditioning of mental and emotional health do not understand borders or lines drawn on the maps. But in Euskadi we are also working inwards, facing our health system. This priority regarding mental health has already been set as one of the commitments for health action in the Government Agreement that the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party drafted in August 2020. That is, being already aware of the impact of COVID-19 on the mental and emotional health of our citizens. And in the government program we specifically collected the commitment to address a new mental health strategy in Commitment 75 initiative 4; and since then we have been working on it. On 8 October we had a debate on mental health in this very Parliament, and on that occasion it is true that we were not able to reach a compromise. But I assure you, it wasn't because we didn't try. In fact, I will recognize that I personally have been frustrated to achieve this, because I sincerely believe that we have put forward a great text that fully addressed the needs to be developed in mental health. So it is, that despite not achieving that agreement I used much of my time in the gallery to read parts of the text we had offered; and if you go to the session log you will see as one of the commitments I mentioned, it was precisely that mental health strategy on the parameters that we ratified today in the compromise amendment that we have achieved today. But I can't accept that it means that we're late, because I did feel sorry that at the time since the opposition the opportunity was missed not to value what was a good agreement, which today everyone wants to claim as their own as the route to follow. But in no case was it a missed opportunity either for the Socialists or for the Basque Government, because we have continued to work on those pillars and commitments that we explained. And even seven months later, I think it is important that we have reached that agreement today, and I would like to thank you, Mrs Garde, for your willingness to address it. And with this and we confirm our unequivocal commitment to move forward in an agile, comprehensive, coordinated and public response to the challenges we face in terms of mental and emotional health. And we do so on the basis of that commitment to design a new mental health strategy, open to input from professionals, social agents and users, with a clear goal that is to strengthen the community model. This is done by ensuring accessibility to the system, continuity of care, comprehensive care, equity and also a gender perspective. It's very important, of course. And with the commitment to promote the fight against stigmatization, the prevention of suicide and the attention to groups of greater social vulnerability, as are our children and young people. Today I think we've got a good deal, and I'd like to think it's the beginning of a new moment when we're also... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... Girls and young people. Today I think we've made a good deal. And I would like to think that this is the beginning of a new moment, in which, in addition, we are able to add more groups to a subject as important as the mental health care of our citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u44	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, everybody. In the ensuing inquiry into this motion, the Sailburu made an effort to explain and introduce us to the importance of having an updated mental health strategy. It made us - and we must recognize it - a detailed relationship that I will recall part of it throughout this intervention. Nor can I forget today, as you, Sailburu, announced the impetus for the creation of the new mental health strategy, a commitment as recalled by the government program, an issue that has placed this essential tool for advancing mental health at the heart of the debate. She referred in the previous point to our colleague Josune Gorospe, who told us about the right way. The right way is the mental health strategy, because we believe that this issue must be addressed with seriousness, rigour and running from headlines. And this is the right way: strategy. Mrs. Garde brings us this initiative. And it has to be recognized, I have to admit, that it collaborates in focusing on this essential tool. I'd like to talk about the deal now. I believe that we have reached a powerful agreement on three points. And I want to explain it from my perception. The heart of the agreement, the second point: "Parliament urges the Government to continue to develop and strengthen the Community model for the new mental health strategy in Euskadi". What is the community model was what he was explaining to us in the Sailburu interpellation. It is a model that is defined through its characteristics and that we point out in this second point: autonomy or capacity of service to provide and promote the independence and self-sufficiency of people; continuity or capacity in the care network to provide treatment, rehabilitation, care and support continuously throughout life; this continuity longitudinally and consistently between the services that make up it, cross-sectional continuity. And so all these elements: accessibility, comprehensive care, equity, responsibility, personal recovery and others. The other parts of the agreement. In the first point, we refer to time and say: as soon as possible. I believe - I do not believe - that the Department is making this very important effort. In addition, we were talking about the actors - the Department, the Mental Health Advisory Council - but also open to receiving and evaluating - tenth - contributions from professionals, social actors and users. And the third point: the priority issues, taking into account the sustainability and quality of the system, and guaranteeing the rights of users, determining in the same agreement the promotion of mental health in the fight against the stigma suffered by people with mental health problems, the special attention to child-to-child mental health and the prevention of suicide. Historically, in Euskadi, the presence of mental health strategies has had two characteristics: it has been early - since 1983 - even prior to the report of psychiatric reform in the State; and it has been numerous. Five proposals detailed the Sailburu, five strategic proposals: in 83, 90, 2004, 2010 and 2016. All strategies, since the pioneer Psychiatric Assistance and Mental Health Plan of 1983, have had as common factor the implementation of the community model, with the development of all the characteristics highlighted above. But future protection, the design of assistance resources and their orientation over these almost 40 years, 40 years, have taken these budgets into account, which does not mean that there is a full deployment of the forecasts envisaged by the Community model. As in everything, there is room for improvement, there are important steps still to take in the organizational model. But the joint orientation of all social and health services in this line - and with that vision of people with psychiatric disorders as groups of special attention and consideration - is unequivocally shared. In this scenario, this agreement is framed, which is certainly a tool for moving forward in the future. We know that the Department has mental health at the heart of public health policies. And from this group we encourage you to continue along that path. We know you're going to continue along that path. And with this agreement, with this drive tool, we push, we support that government action. We also place duties on him, of course, as in any impulse. I value all agreements very much, but those that arise from a motion resulting from an inquiry seem special to me: they are born with an essential element: the participation of the Government from within this House. That is why I thank the groups that are joining this agreement. That's why I recognize Mr. Rico's work. For this reason, Mrs Garde, I recognized the opportunity of your initiative, and I acknowledge that you have negotiated with the will of agreement. That is why, Mr Sailburu, I recognise that you have placed the strategy at the centre of the debate, because this is indeed the right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Does anyone want to be part of the answer shift? [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...in fact, this is the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Is there anything in the answer shift that somebody wants to participate? Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH, the Middle Amendment signed by Eukal Sozialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 7; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u47	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mution, introduced to the popular group of Carmelus Barroja Barrocals-Ciudadans, a report made of the 379 murder of the terrorist party in Europe. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u48	Thank you very much, President, good morning, Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, from the People's-Citizens Group, in this motion, which is the result of an inquiry, and in which, first of all, I have to thank Mrs...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u50	Thank you, President. He said that this motion was the result of an inquiry and I also had to thank Mrs Artolazabal for her answer, which in some way could also be put into value the object of what we were talking about, although in the end she was angry with me, but well, I think she did it a little unfairly, because my spirit was constructive in relation to this issue. But, well, it's the things of the interpellations and their substantiation. But, above all, it is also the result of the European Parliament's report and its committee of petitions and issue report on the 379 unsolved murders committed by the terrorist organisation ETA. We wanted to focus on the conclusions, on the recommendations of the report and bring them to this Parliament so that they can be supported, and therefore, so that the competent institutions can implement measures and actions consistent with those conclusions, consistent with those recommendations. Very clear conclusions and more than committed recommendations setting out new attitudes, new forms of work, of course, to continue to work on the part of the various institutions in order to continue to make progress on something so simple, but so fundamental and just, as is the clarification of the still unresolved murders of ETA. It is clear that the European Parliament's report is good news, and we must especially thank here, from the Basque Parliament, for the special attention that the European Parliament has once again paid to the victims of terrorism and for the interest it has shown in the judicial situation of the attacks by the terrorist band ETA, which have caused so much damage to this land. That is why this institution must be among the first to welcome this report, as it concerns us intimately. There are several institutions that can be concerned, competent, to which the report can refer, and among them there is also this Parliament, or there is the Basque Government in its action on the competences it has assigned. I also believe that the way in which the European Parliament has placed the victims of terrorism on the frontline of public and democratic action, on the frontline of justice and memory has been exemplary. And so, what I want to highlight is the report, drawing those conclusions and recommendations. He acknowledged that the figure supported by the Spanish Ombudsman for 379 unpunished murders was currently in line with the magnitude of the situation. He also said that it had been found that a significant percentage, approximately 44 per cent of the murders of ETA, did not exist a judicial sentence for all the physical perpetrators of the crimes, causing a lack of justice with regard to the families of the victims. It also states in its conclusions that the situation of terror created by ETA in the Basque Country and Navarre during the first years of Spanish democracy is the main cause of the large number of unsolved crimes during this period and in these autonomous communities. He also says that the comparison of the situation in the Basque Country and Navarre with other territories where there has been intense violence, whether of a terrorist nature or of organized crime, reveals important similarities... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of the situation in the Basque Country and Navarre with other territories where there has been intense violence, whether of a terrorist nature or of organized crime, reveals important similarities. In all of them there is a high percentage of murders that were not resolved by the security and justice agencies. Violence, especially when it is very intense and concentrated in a small territory, conditions and limits the ability of security institutions to act, and thus leads to a high level of impunity. Interesting reflection. And along with the main cause, there are other factors that have negatively influenced the clarification of ETA murders and led to impunity. In the past, there has been a mismatch in the functioning of local and national judicial bodies. There was also a period of adaptation of the state security forces to the fight against terrorism in the early years, the investigation into some political-military ETA crimes was omitted after its dissolution in 1982. That is to say, very important and reference points to be taken into account, and of course this report has assessed them. In conclusion, it has also been stated in the report that many of the former ETA members convicted of murder on return to their places of origin have been regularly honoured and welcomed on public streets. These acts of tribute and welcome have continued to take place. There will then be a recommendation on this conclusion. It has also been observed that the families of nearly 400 victims of unresolved ETA cases have been immersed in a situation of consolidated impunity for many years, which is prolonged day after day, which affects in addition and parallel to their own rights; in accordance with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights which prohibits all forms of undue suffering. This aspect, this issue is of particular concern to the European Parliament, since the human rights of victims of terrorism must be the first to be guaranteed, and that situation must be brought to an end. It also states as conclusions that victims continue to struggle to find the truth and to ensure that their needs are met and their rights respected. And that's true. Victims must be at the centre of all the actions of national, European and international institutions. And they finally say the conclusions that there is a collective obligation to seek the truth behind each of the unresolved attacks; not only to try to do justice, but also to honor the memory of the victims, and that both they and their families can rest in peace. These are conclusions - of course, I have not referred to all - but a reference in relation to what we have to do also other institutions on the outstanding issues. In this respect, the recommendations are addressed in many areas, they are addressed at national level, they are addressed at European level, and they are addressed to the institutions and within the framework of European directives and regulations. But, in any case, I believe that where we have to focus and where we as a Parliament have to do it is in the competent institutions. And to the extent that of the competent institutions that we are called to action, Parliament, of course, but above all and fundamentally the Basque Government is where there must be a capacity for action. Thus, certain recommendations are important and relevant, such as the one calling for all relevant institutions to prevent the public rise of terrorists convicted when they leave jails for the pain and secondary victimization they bring to the victims of terrorism; to prevent the humiliation of victims through such acts by strengthening the important legal instruments to make them effective in preventing impunity and revictimization. It also refers in its recommendations to appeal from the competent institutions to those who have any information that may lead to the resolution of any of the outstanding cases for such reserved, protected and anonymous collaboration with the state security forces and bodies and the Administration of Justice, in order to provide victims with access to justice information. The role of the institutions, the various institutions with competence in the field of justice, security or contact with terrorist organizations. There is also talk of suggesting to the competent institutions that they exhaust the interpretative possibilities of the Criminal Code, including the possible recognition of ETA terrorist crimes as crimes against humanity. He also talks about suggesting to the competent institutions that the interpretative possibilities of criminal law be exhausted, also in the case of the mediated author's theory, by existing domain of article 28 of the Spanish Criminal Code, in order to be able to prosecute as intellectual authors, instigators of the order, the leaders of the dome of ETA at the time of the commission of the various unresolved attacks. He also urged the competent institutions to ensure that the benefits and prison treatment that could be granted to those convicted of terrorism under the Spanish legislation in force were linked to their cooperation with the clarification of all those attacks of which they were aware as a further demonstration of their true repentance. And it continues to urge the competent institutions of the Member States and of third countries to continue and carry out the work of police and judicial cooperation in the Spanish State or with the Spanish State as one of the fundamental elements to clarify those unresolved cases that are presumed to have escaped the action of the Spanish justice system. That is, these recommendations to ensure that each and every one of the families of the nearly 400 persons killed by ETA whose crime has gone unpunished are informed personally and as soon as possible of any change in the legal situation and the personal and prison situation and the perpetrators of the crimes. It is quite clear that some of these issues are also being done, but it is also clear that we must continue to work on these issues, with these points, with these references of work which has been important and of reference, and which we thank from our group, from the European Parliament. I am introducing this motion on behalf of my group, the People-Citizens Group. I think it is important for a statement to come out in connection with the support, how interesting and constructive this work of the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions is in the report on the 379 cases of unsolved murders committed by the terrorist group ETA. I believe that can be done, and that is the approach we have presented to the House. I am, of course, grateful for the full amendment made by the Mixto-Vox Group, which I share. This amendment speaks a little more, already calls for more specific work on the part of the institutions, to identify certain possibilities for legal, political and institutional action. That's going down a little bit further. I share what you said anyway. And I also appreciate the... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... possibilities for legal, political and institutional action. That's going down a little bit further. However, I share what you have said, and I also appreciate the amendment by all the groups supporting the Government, which has finally been a compromise. This also makes clear the value of the European report, and that of continuing this work of clarifying the murders of ETA in relation to the victims. Thank you, I disagree with point number three when it criticizes the dynamics of other institutions' actions. We also do not like the institutions to mess with us when we establish dynamics of action in our political missions or in our parliamentary missions, when we go through other countries of the world to check certain circumstances. We don't like them getting involved in our work. The issue is the final value of the product, the final value of the product, not so much the iter or the way of making that product. I believe that in any case, it is a reference report, the one drawn up by the European Parliament. From our point of view, you have to say hello, you have to take it into account. Every institution will be able to do what it can in relation to that, but I think it's okay that it is. That is why we disagree with point three - criticising the Commission's approach to work by the European Parliament - but in any case we will ask for a separate vote on that point, because we share the rest of the report. In any event, the fact that the European Parliament's report, the issue report, in relation to 379 cases of unsolved murders committed by the terrorist group ETA is there, has been assessed, has been considered to be the aim of this parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u51	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing to the leaders, Mistto-Vox, your word is yours. Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. It has had to be the European Parliament that advises dealing with ETA crimes as they are, crimes against humanity. And one should ask why certain political parties have resisted recognizing that in Spain people were being persecuted, threatened, extortioned, kidnapped and assaulted, simply because they were Spanish, because they represented Spain, because they defended the interests of Spain. For 40 years, ETA's criminal gang has taken the lives of dozens of people. The objectives of these assassins and of those who supported them from the institutions, is the same objective that they also now have from the institutions themselves: secession and independence, the creation of a Basque republic. And in addition, there is enough for them any Spanish or Basque person who does not communicate with their road map. Because what would have happened to address ETA's terrorist activity as an attempt by a gang of criminals to carry out ethnic cleansing of this region? Well, it would have been good for a long time. It would have served to recognize the very serious problem of violence that we have suffered in Spain for decades. It would have served to enable sufficient tools and resources to root it out. I gather an excerpt from the European Commission's report for the clarification of still unresolved ETA crimes: "It is possible to indicatively support the existence of a crime against humanity provided for in the Spanish Penal Code, which provides for the commission of crimes of murder, forced transfer, deportation, among others, when such crimes are committed as part of a widespread attack on the civilian population or part of it; this being the element that makes them crimes against humanity". Something that perfectly defends and defines what ETA did in this region. So today's debate by the PP-Citizens in this House takes a special interest, among other things, because it may allow us to see what the parties supporting the government think of something as important as what I have just pointed out. 379 still unsolved ETA crimes. A very remarkable deficit of the system that still suffers thousands of people in the Basque Autonomous Community and throughout Spain. There are many people who are recognized as having the right to reparation, but who cannot do so because they do not know the author of the crime, the perpetrator; who placed the victim on the target. And the relevant question is: Are public administrations doing enough to reverse this situation? I'd say no, under no circumstances. That in order to achieve the goal of peaceful and normalized coexistence, knowledge is essential, knowing that those who kidnapped and murdered, paid or paid for it. We must make efforts and demonstrate a certain commitment beyond good words and good intentions, which I have no doubt that there are. Beyond the lofty statements in favour of the exercise of the right to reparation of victims, we need many more facts and fewer words. All those people who still suffer the consequences of ETA violence, instead of reparation, observe how they recognize as assets of democracy those who represent the executioners, those who vitiate and harass them; those who still today legitimize their crimes and claim the release of older prisoners. That is the reality that we have, in the face of the permanent doubt of the enormous difficulties in closing open wounds to fire, the impossibility of closing the mourning, we suffer the consequences of the recognition of ETA's friends as partners. He sympathizes with them to limit the democratic rights of any Spanish-profile political party. The whitewash is complicit with those who killed and kidnapped, who for years financed and fed the terrorist organization from criminals, who, as I always say, do not condemn or repent. That you are what you are, because you also allow it. And we've seen someone who's constantly dripping into Basque jails, who, with the active involvement of the Basque Government, has relatively easy access to grade progressions without collaborating or condemning all the crimes they've committed. By the way, the director of the Martutene prison and four other prison officials have resigned to Councilwoman Artolazabal. That's what they said, it'll be for the good... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the director of the prison of Martutene and four other prison officials have submitted their resignation to Councilwoman Artolazabal - that is what they have said. Is it because of the good management of Basque prisons since they acquired the competition? The victims made it very clear in their interview with the representatives of the Basque Parliament with whom they met. They speak of impunity, also of consented impunity, of mistakes, desirousness and indecent negotiations to give folder to certain summaries. Thanks to various associations of victims, various summaries have been reopened, which has borne fruit that they have been tried and convicted and otherwise have been released, which would not have added to their sentences every year that their crimes, in addition, deserved. And it is very sad that the main thrust is that of the associations and not that of the administrations, whose commitment today should be the clarification of all cases still unresolved. It is deeply irresponsible to act by those who govern and by those parties that support them. Irresponsible and, moreover, contrary to the interests of the victims, whose needs are not met. It is also irresponsible with all citizens seeking justice and reparation. The mission's proposals for the clarification of still unresolved ETA crimes are clear. We therefore propose to the Government today the adoption of measures within its reach to contribute to reparation and to prevent the double victimization of those who suffered the violence and continue to suffer the dramatic consequences of the ignorance and insult that for all these people implies the impunity with which the nostalgics of violence receive murderers when they leave the prisons, which they always arrived late and which they always leave soon. This Government could and should take measures to put an end to these tributes, to these acts of humiliation to the victims and to all the people in this region who condemn ETA terrorism and its actors. The Ertzaintza should register each organizer of an event, a necessary and fundamental step for the adoption of legal measures against acts that far exceed the exercise of freedom of expression. And if there is a need for a change in the legislation in force, this Parliament should also encourage it. No doubt ending absolutely shameful acts would help to prevent the victims from being revictimized. The PNV, which also prides itself on its power over Sánchez's PSOE, could condition support for movements in this sense that we have proposed. Because rejection of nothing is serving, because it is increasingly necessary to set limits to what the ultra-left calls freedom of expression. It must be borne in mind that much of the information needed to clarify so much unsolved crime in prisons. The details of many attacks are known to ETA prisoners who refuse to cooperate with judges and police forces. And the time has come, we believe, to condition the granting of degree progressions to this collaboration. Without it there should be no prison benefit. It should be an inescapable and inescapable condition. It would be a great gesture for the House to recognize that ETA intended to eliminate all persons who jeopardized its objective, which was independence. Members of Spanish parties and institutions, members of the state security forces and bodies, military, businessmen, ertzaintzas, judges, postmen, women and children. They had no selective spirit. They didn't care if an innocent man fell dead on the floor. They despised and trampled upon fundamental rights and the right to life. ETA's crimes were crimes against humanity, as the European Parliament believes. And it's more than notorious that it is. Crimes against humanity that the bench on my left has not yet had the courage to condemn. Courage, another word, along with condemnation, that they do not seem to know how to conjugate. We all know the commitment of the Basque Government and the parties that support them with the clarification of the still unresolved ETA crimes. We know that today hardly goes beyond good words and gestures in front of the gallery. We are clear that the priority objective remains the whitening of those in this House who continue to break spears for those who killed - that is what they show us every day -. ETA crimes are crimes against humanity that they do not prescribe over time. And they are all, those of whom we know the guilty and those of whom they are still unresolved. It is a question of justice and also of humanity to commit all kinds of resources to resolve them, to bring some peace to the victims, to advance towards the reparation of the enormous damage caused. This Parliament can pave the way and the Basque Government can act and can do much more than it does. Will they? Unfortunately, I doubt that this is how the President of the Government of Spain - a partner of PNV and Bildu - pleads daily with all the enemies of Spain and insults our forces and security forces of the State, all our police, calling them piolin or piolines. It passes the ethical lines on a daily basis and laughs at those who have guaranteed the freedom of all. And the worst part is, we're not even surprised anymore. Having said that, I will end with a sentence that said a German scientist and writer, Georg Lichtenberg: "When those who command lose shame, those who obey lose respect." Maybe we're at this stage now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u53	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Martínez Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u54	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. To-day the Popular Party and the murders which have been committed, has brought a discussion about the unsolved murders. It is not, we believe, a subject to appeal to a common or otherwise than in a pliant, I shall not enter, of course, which every parlamentary group represents.... With all its legitimacy initiative. But what seems to us to be a great unity with this activity, on the one hand, with these undertakings which produce it, but at the same time, with such complex and delicate objects of tension and disagreement, does not appear to us to be a very constructive attitude. And just by taking or examining the words of the person who spoke before me, that's a good test. Mr. Barrio relies on a visit to the European parliamentary committee... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... it is a good test. Mr Barrio has founded his initiative on a visit to the European parliamentary committee, or rather, in our opinion, with complete legitimacy, but it is based on visiting part of the commission. And then I'll go in. The first thing we would like to say is: our highest recognition to all victims of all political violence, ETA terrorism, State terrorism, violence, persecution, abuse and torture by all State and Ertzaintza security forces and bodies, as well as all victims of the dictatorship. When we talk about victims, we should have a single voice in this Parliament. Memory, truth, respect, recognition, guarantees of non-repetition and guarantees of non-revictimization. When we talk about victims we cannot fall into hierarchical categories according to the victim, all are victims of a violent act, equally. When we talk about victims, it is worth repeating that in democracy there was never a political reason, a political objective, or a State reason for murder. When we talk about victims it's time to stop making tiny partisanship and it's time to make society, it's time to build a country with capital. Together we defend the right of all the victims to have truth, justice, and attention; and I dare say more, we confess and defend our right as well as society. That is why we advocate, and we demand it in that compromise amendment that we have signed, that from all public institutions all memory policies must be strengthened in an integral and inclusive manner. There are different figures on unsolved ETA murders, more than 300 in any case. There are also figures, more than 20 of the 65 murders of the LAG, still unsolved. Hundreds of people remain tortured, ill-treated during the transition period and also from the 1980s to the present, who have not seen their rights recognized. There are countless victims of the violence of persecution who deserve our utmost recognition and reparation. There has been too much impunity in this country. But in addition, we say this from a sense farthest from equidistant puritivism that often light up such situations, initiatives. All victims of any violence have the right to truth, reparation and public recognition. But we must also work at this moment, and as the report cited by Mr Barrio of the European Parliament itself acknowledges at a time when most of these violent acts, of these murders have legally prescribed, we must work among all and among all in mechanisms to clarify the truth beyond the only judicial truth that is claimed. Beyond the judicial truth, there is a truth to the fact that the victim, the victim, of course, we and we demand that he cooperate with justice and that he cooperate with the mechanisms he wishes to put in place among all of us to clarify and to be able to give truth to the victims, because, as I said, most of the cases have prescribed. And he said that a fact that he prescribes judicially does not exempt the whole of institutions, of the people involved, of the whole of society... We design mechanisms to clarify truth, reparation, recognition and reconciliation. 11 years after the cessation of ETA's armed activity, we believe that Basque society continues to demand consensus. Consensus that killing was wrong. Consensus that any human rights violation was and is wrong and will be wrong. Consensus on building coexistence, democracy and peace. Adostasunak; beraz, memorial, bizikidetzaren eta bakearen was ikuntzan. Today, we are discussing a report following a visit from the European Parliament. This visit would be interesting if they were interested in meeting with all associations and institutions, which was not given. We thought it was a visit organized in a political campaign. This delegation did not meet with all the corporations of victims, and the whole institution did not meet with this delegation. He was close here. It's barely 300 meters in Treviera de este Parlamento Vasco. "Transviern de la Presidentia, alguno más de Lake, y no tuviron el interes, y no voy audior el motivo de reunirse ni con este Parlamento, me el con Gobierno Vass, I am Obsciones acciones de víctimas y infras víctimas aqua ei Pas." Feeling very sorry, because I reaffirm myself in everything I said in the first part, it was a deliberate decision of that committee, whose committee it has organized. Legitimate certainly, but it does not help to see whether that work, or as you said, Mr Barrio, the account you have made of that report, is being made at the service of an inclusive memory a political campaign with the tiny partyist. And it is not to mess with the European Parliament, it is with a spurious use of a committee that should have done much more inclusive work, because, Mr Barrio, and I am sure that we agree on this, the victims. The victims of ETA and also the victims of any other violation of political motivation are plural. And I think this house has to recognize that plurality, and apart from hearing them, it has to listen to them. Listen to that plurality when we like what they say and when we don't like what they say. We have to listen to them as victims of violence, without interference once again with a tiny amount of partyism. Let's listen to all the victims as victims. Let us listen to all those who met with the European Parliament, those who participated in the restorative meetings, those who also participated with the... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... of victims. Let us listen to all those who met with the European Parliament, those who participated in the restorative meetings, those who also participated with the prisoners of the Via Nanclares; with the meetings of (...). All of you, all of you victims. Because, as María Jauregi said in a recent interview, sharing testimonies of different violence is enriching. You listen to what someone else tells you, and we all come to the same conclusion: the suffering caused is unjust, and we must recognize the damage we have suffered. Mr Barrio, I believe that this is the way of active listening to all the plurality of victims, respect for inclusive memory, the role that this Parliament would have to play. And in addition to that report, in that report, that I will not give time to get into it now, there are errors, there are errors of lump. And therefore, they may be because they have not met with all the public institutions. You, and too many times we've heard only about the code... you've only spoken, and many times we've only heard about the Penal Code. All this was done, but we believe that, I say again, so many years later, we are at a time when, in addition, the judicial truth may have been prescribed in many cases; we need a truth as a society, an inclusive truth, and a truth in which the victims collaborate in the clarification of these facts, in the construction of an inclusive memory of all the victims. We therefore once again call for a political majority to create such mechanisms. In that sense, our amendment, which did not want to go into the whole of the report presented by the European Parliament, was in that sense. We are pleased to have also signed the compromise amendment with the Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, which I believe can be supported by all the groups. But I say again and insist that, a subject like this, so many years later, has to be used to build bridges, to reach collective agreements among all parliamentary groups; that is what society is demanding of us. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u55	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u56	Yeah. Good morning, thank you, President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Egun on the gut. Well, other speakers have already explained the origin and the transcript of this report. It is interesting to note, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know, that since 2016 there have been many attempts to bring this issue to the European Parliament. And I regret to say that on many occasions it has been systematically, on many occasions, systematically instrumentalized. As early as 2017, the European Commission strictly stated that it lacked the competence to intervene in the day-to-day and regular functioning of the criminal justice system in any Member State. And also at that time, Mr Barrio - who I know is gone but will come back - when the Ministry of Justice of Spain was asked for information, which at the time was occupied by Minister Catalá, this answered strictly and textually, I open quotes: "Before the filing of a criminal judicial procedure, the appropriate legal remedies can be lodged, and the criminal prosecution of terrorist crimes in Spain is at the head of the European countries". I close quotes. And having said that, I think it is necessary to stress some issues that we seem to forget. And it is that Spain is constituted as a social and democratic state of law, and therefore the action of this state is framed in respect of the Constitution and the established in the legislation, both Spanish and European. And this means, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, that the rule of law is guaranteed as an expression of the will of all citizens. Having said that, I would also point out to you that, as you know, during the proceedings of this Commission and the Socialist and Democratic Group, it tabled a number of amendments, many amendments, by the way, and voted in favour of this report at the end. Among other things, and above all, this is a strong demonstration of the Socialist Party's sensitivity to the victims, and above all, of its commitment to (advance?) in the principle of unity of all democrats against terrorism and violence, without compromise, without demagogies, without sectarianism, without instrumentalization. Unfortunately, there are still parties in Spain that continue to use the pain and suffering of the victims to carry out political proselytism. In any case, I insist and want to make it clear again - I think we did it recently in an initiative of EH Bildu, in relation to the Law of Vulneration - we have always positioned ourselves, and we have always found ourselves on the side of the victims. In defense of the victims. With an unequivocal commitment to their right to truth, justice, recognition and reparation. And that is why we have been working on reparation and justice policies for decades, without a solution of continuity, and in coherence with the democratic struggle that we had at the time against the totalitarian project of ETA. We promote the laws of terrorism both state and Basque that have covered thousands of victims, and we continue to work for absolute delegitimization and the promotion of ethical and democratic values, in order to be able to build that democratic coexistence in which we still, ladies and gentlemen, have to continue to take many steps and firm ones in our country. This is what we Socialists do, Your Honor. We have done so and we continue to do so rigorously, seriously, and above all also seeking not to create those false expectations in relation to certain issues that as you all know, because here is a lot... finally, knowledgeable of the law, they are contrary to the Constitution and legality. We must say that we understand some of the claims made from the point of view of the victims, but it is appropriate to analyse many of the recommendations rigorously. And I'm going to focus on some that give me time right now. In relation to crimes against humanity. Article four... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... rigorously analyse many of the recommendations. And I'm going to focus on some, which gives me time, for now. With regard to crimes against humanity, article 4 of the Criminal Code expressly states that criminal laws may not be applied to cases other than those specifically covered by them. It is not possible to apply the consideration of humanity for crimes committed before 1 October 2004 in which the amendment of the Criminal Code, which expressly establishes them, comes into force. And, on the other hand, apart from knowing law as democrats, we cannot forget that principle of legality, which is a fundamental principle, according to which the whole exercise of a public power must be carried out in accordance with the law and its jurisdiction, and not the mere desire or will of the people. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a golden rule to affirm that a State is a rule of law, where power has its foundation, and above all its limits, within the legal framework that we have. And this principle is expressly enshrined in article 25 of the Constitution, which expressly states – and I insist – the prohibition of analog interpretation of criminal laws. I don't know which part we forget. We understand perfectly, as I say, the victims' claim, but the constitutional margins are what they are. And we need to be aware of the impossibility of retroactively applying laws to crimes against humanity. To avoid statute of limitations, a well-established institute for age-old crimes. It's unfortunate, but it is. In relation to the ongitorris, we have already talked about the ongitorris and not long ago. We have had the opportunity to discuss this issue in this Parliament, and I believe that the position of the Socialists has become meridian. They hurt us, they hurt us all: they hurt the victims deeply, deeply, and they are absolutely unacceptable. So I, not to repeat, will take for granted the words that our spokesman, Eneko Andueza, said in that debate. You are all aware that efforts are being made to find solutions to prevent such acts by administrative means, because although Organic Law 7/2000 regulates sanctions for any kind of terrorist exaltation, Directive 541 of 2007 requires such actions or expressions to involve a situation of certain risk to individuals or third parties. And this has also been assumed by the National Court. You have taken that view. And in the absence of a European definition, complaints against acts of humiliation against victims are prevented from prospering on a criminal basis, despite what is laid down in the Spanish law. So what needs to be done, indeed, is to continue working to reform that directive and give the victims a response, to avoid the pain of revictimisation that still continues to suffer today with these infamous receptions. Finally, and with regard to prison benefits, not by much repeating the same lie becomes true. It is not convenient, ladies and gentlemen - to some I say directly - to live with the illusory effect of the truth. You can't. It's not good either in general, in every order of life. And though some spokesman firmly believes in it, (Goebbels?) He was never right about this or anything else. Thus, the Government and the Prison Administration comply with the applicable prison law. Each of its decisions on the basis of the individualized treatment of each of the prisoners is controlled by the judiciary. No exceptionalities in one sense or another. It is the Law that gives the benefits and how it gives them, not the Administration, I insist. Which part again have we failed to understand? It's as simple as going to the law, that law, among other things, that we've all got. If the law is to be changed, it must be done by the Legislature, not by the Government. It's a drawer. And I'm finishing up. And for all these reasons and for many more, we are going to ratify - which is what we have come to do here - our commitment to the victims. We consider the Commission's interest (PETI?) and its report, and we therefore urge the Government to continue to promote measures to give effect to the right to the truth, on the basis - which I believe we all share - that that right to the truth is imprescriptible and inalienable. And we also place our duties - we place our duties on society, we place our duties on ourselves - in order to move forward on the path of a democratic coexistence that guarantees respect for human rights. This is what we have signed in that amendment with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, to whom I thank you for your provision, and therefore, for this compromise amendment, I request the support of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u58	Mr. President, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. How many times has this legislature confessed the rights and due respect to the victims of terror and political violence? How many times have we declared the truth, justice, observation, and not confirmation of it? Although we have stated it a thousand times today, we wish to confirm the same three principles. The violation of human rights in order to acquire political ends, or to defend the state, is not permitted. It was innocent, it's not acceptable, it has no justification. All victims deserve respect and respect for the increase of their suffering... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it is not acceptable and has no justification. Every victim deserves respect and respect. Any initiative that increases their suffering must be rejected. And, three, all the victims have the same rights: true, rights to justice and attention. And these rights, to protect themselves, have been much and various in the public policy and policy which the Basque Institutions have exercised during the last decades. The head physician himself remembered some of them on the first Friday's interpelation of this motion. Because over a decade ago ETA's terrorist violence has definitely disappeared from our lives. After many years of suffering, we managed to end it. And yet, their sequels survive, they will still survive for a long time. They are and will be present in public policies of memory and in the memory of the wounds he left in society. They are and will be present in political and parliamentary debates like this one today, or in debates in the media. They are and will be present in education, in the dissemination of a culture of coexistence and human rights. And unfortunately, they are and will be especially present in the hearts and memories of the victims. The history of ETA and political violence in Euskadi leads us to a sad and unjust past, a past still with shadows and questions. Shadows and questions that, on the one hand, make us think about what we were able to do and did not do, where we were each one of us, when and how we were able to express our closeness and solidarity to the victims. And there are still some of our pendente lessons we still have to do. Many victims did not attain the social and institutional attention they deserved at their very moment. Many of these have not yet been sufficiently observed, either because the case has not been explained, or because the judicial explanation has been insufficient. That's why the firms, the presidents, the funk and the parliaments themselves have made a public autocritics more than once. As Councilwoman Artolazabal told you in response to your inquiry, Mr Barrio, the commitment of Basque institutions to the victims and their rights to truth, justice and reparation is not a day's flower. The Basque Government and Parliament, as well as the municipalities and parliaments, did not need a report from the European Parliament's Committee on Citizens' Petitions to put the victims at the centre of our public policies. And it seems to us that a committee of the European Parliament is concerned about the victims of terrorism, trying to help satisfy their right to the truth. Welcome to this shared goal. But by then, as the adviser has already said, the Basque Government had already carried out and submitted the report on the procedural situation of attacks by terrorist organizations resulting in death between 1960 and 2014. An initiative and effort by the Basque Government to help with the right to the truth. An effort that seeks to alleviate, to the extent possible, the lack of judicial truth that has not been achieved to date by these victims. The judicial truth that, as you know, it is not for this Government to look for. By then, he had also given these families the notebooks of memory and recognition. An effort to keep the memory of these approximately 300 victims, whose attacks remain unclarified with the aim of contributing to truth and justice. Because we are committed to the rights of the victims and also to their right to the truth, beyond whether or not it is our area of competence, which is not. And our commitment to them, to their suffering and to their rights, goes beyond our strict competence. We therefore do not need any committee in the European Parliament to urge us to do so. There are our public policies of memory and victims. Public policies which apparently did not raise the minimum interest of the above-mentioned Committee on Citizens' Petitions of the European Parliament. A committee that travels to report on the right to the truth of the victims of ETA, and refuses consciously and voluntarily, consciously and voluntarily, to meet with the Basque Government or Parliament, despite repeated offers. A committee drawing up a report with 30 recommendations, of which virtually none is addressed to the Basque institutions or to the scope of their powers. A report which, however, you bring to this Parliament for its explicit assessment, debate and support, with the intention, moreover, that the Government will transfer it to the Victims Participation Council. A report which is neither his own, nor in whose preparation he has participated, nor has been asked, and whose authors, moreover, have failed to respect and institutional consideration due to this Government and to this Parliament, even if it was only by following minimal rules of courtesy. Mr Barrio, as we say in the amendment that Elkarrekin Podemos, Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists have put in place, and I take this opportunity to thank Mr Martínez for his willingness to sign the compromise amendment, this Parliament appreciates all the efforts being made by different institutions to ensure its effective compliance. In this regard, we take into account the interest shown by the Committee on Citizens' Petitions of the European Parliament in its report. We can even share some of its recommendations, but more so, today, when we adopt the amendment tabled, we will reiterate to the European Parliament our readiness, the willingness of the Basque institutions, and the desire to work together to defend the rights of the victims. There, there they will always find us, in cooperation, in collaboration, in shared work. Meanwhile, the Basque institutions will continue our path, trying to guarantee our rights to victims every day. We're sure that the EukMUGREY will continue to encourage all the victims and, above all, to know the right of unsolved bombings to know the truth, just as it has been for a long time and so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u59	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The non-correction group, representative of EH Collect, Mr. Azuga, is your word. [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... A group without correction, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. The European parliamental Committee, PETI, has approved a report. It is not a binding, it has no practical influence, it is an expression, it is an opinion. PPP introduces this report as a principle of authority. There is a decision, a decision, a higher authority, given by an organ, an executive which is binding, and I dare say it is imperative. From the European Commission. Heike Busse, who is himself, wrote and told him by his mouth that he had not the Commission of Scanations, had no competition either to examine or to judge the jurisdiction of the members of the State. And yet this committee went on with its mission. And today it seems to me that I am in the reverse world, Mr Barrio, because today they come to present a report that says that justice, that the Spanish institutions have not acted in the fight against ETA. They have gone to Europe to convince them that the institutional response to ETA has been weak, insufficient and almost conniving with ETA. And I tell him that's fake. That the Spanish justice did, did all that was in his hand - and what was not also - to welcome, to give response to the victims of ETA and for much more. He did what he was supposed to do, as the European Commission acknowledges, but he also did what he wasn't supposed to do, because more and more official reports are being told. This initiative I believe is an amendment to the whole of those institutions that the People's Party-Citizens so claim to defend. Do you really believe, Mr. Barrio, that justice, that fascist public order court that ends on January 4, 1977, the National Court that is created the next day, has been looking elsewhere? Do you really believe that the bodies and security forces of the state - of whom you carry out a ferrea defense - did not investigate, did not act, did not pursue ETA's action? You call into question that the Spanish governments for the past 40, 50 years - Francois, the PSOE, yourselves of the PP - have not taken sufficient institutional measures in the fight against ETA. Is that your new story? Because it gives me the impression that it is an amendment to yourselves; I do not know for the benefit of whom you are even willing to throw stones at your own roof. And I, on the other hand, think that this públical court had done all that the national audience could and couldn't help attacking any person who might be around him. The security forces of the state were all in their hands, and what was not, including torture, was fought against us. The different governments of Spain formed, armed, and chastised the several states of Spain. The Spanish institutions, − juducated, the security forces, the government did everything to persecute and to pursue. By reason or excuse, considering the victim. Everything. It was Legal, it wasgal, it was illegal. And you, Mr. Barrio, have authority over a mission made up of you, Citizens and Vox. They have come to listen to those who were going to give reason. And the PSOE, which seems not very comfortable, and as I now hear Mrs Gallástegui further, says - contrary to what the European Commission thought - that it has denied, and I agree with you, this mission. What I don't understand is why you too based on what complexes or needs you participated in. A self-observation mission carried out by observers of the State itself to, in some way, observe themselves. For you, of course, a stalemate of the virtues of neutrality and transparency, Mr Barrio, but - I would have to tell you this - other MEPs refused to take part precisely in this spectre of legitimacy in the shaping of this mission. A self-consumption mission. What was the scheme? You had a thesis and you came here to see if you could find a hypothesis. You had a text and you came here to invent a context. You had the verdict and came to see if you were testifying friends, if you were testifying friends would give you proof to carry it forward. The Memorials, the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Indiction, the Ministry Attorney, met with some of your friends, some arguments, which you had before to promote. The other arguments, the opinions, did not wish to hear them, perhaps because they thought they might mar her opinion. That's your plan, and it's always been to impose a single relato, to use this mission in that battle of relato. After all, to put in one of your own recruits. The monolytic relato, monorelation, without hue, and the rest of the relays are excluded. You talked about victims, you wanted to talk about victims' victims' demands. And you say in words, 'Honor the victims, that they may rest in peace.' And who can stand against this plan? Who could there be? But you give a specific number: The victims of 379 AND are supposed to be unrecoiled. Count... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but you give a specific number: The victims of 379 AND are supposed to be unrecoiled. 44% of the total amount, almost half of it. It's a question of how you get this kind of data, 'cause EukoMook is handling other data. These are related to the victims, and I understand that they do it from pain, but not from objectivity. But the problem... You talk about victims, but you don't talk about all the victims. You don't honor, you don't even remember those other victims whom you name at the −, the victims of the state, you deliberately forget the victims of the state's terrorism. How many of the unsolved victims of the state? If it was honest, then you'd talk about it. You'd have noticed, if it were a matter of balance, that too. The absence of the victims of the state doubles the data of the immunity and of the victims. If anyone suspects wanting justice, those were the victims of the state. The institutions of the state have turned their backs to these victims; that those who have not been examined, those who are not persecuted, are their Perparators, and not judged. And these victims have closed their path to justice. They are still obliged to attend the tribunals, not to seek justice, but to seek their attention. To look for the observations which the laws give them, they have also been obliged to go to Europe, and Europe has closed their way, so as to give them the same attention. That's all we've been able to see in these days of Lasa and the Lala family, that they've been punished for costs. And these victims must continue to fight, not only to obtain justice in courts, but also to obtain reconnaissance and observation, in order to win the same existence. But this report today that you've been with − is not going to bring the truth, it's not about to encourage justice, not for all the victims, but for certain victims. That's why he's not honest. That's why I think he's got another interest in it. That's why you wanted to get in the mud and bring what you built. And again, I see behind this initiative that there is a political interest in using the victims of ETA, and in a sense I shall burn them again as a divisionist and a ventajist from a political diary. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answers, Mr Barrio, is the representative of the popular-Ciudad groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u62	Thank you, President. I have tried to be a vehicle, a vehicle of a legal instrument, a political instrument that has been debated and approved in an institution as important as the European Parliament, and your request for committees, I have to say, that some speak of partyism, let us see, partyism, a document, a report that is approved by representatives of more than 600 Members of the 751 European Parliament, is that partyism? In other words, the groups that were represented were represented. Mr Arzuaga has left some groups represented on that mission. (?) said as always, the issues are half (¿) that you usually report. There were the groups that were, all those who were, and that adopted, of course, that report. That, Mr Martínez, you have also said that it is partyism, is partyism a political agreement as broad as the one reached?, partyism? I mean, I don't know, I don't understand that... the definition of partyism, of course, isn't that of the Castilian. So, it's campaign, is it campaigning a parliamentary job, that is, you here the commissions, the jobs, the papers, are electoral campaigns or partisans what we do when we approve them by majority? That is to say, you, those who disqualify this report, are disqualifying the parliamentary work, not that of the European Parliament, yours, yours, yours. You may not like the European Parliament's report, which of course Mr Arzuaga does not owe you (?), Mr Arzuaga is no longer worth Justice, the Police, the National Court, now no longer worth the European Parliament. Well, it's normal, it's the permanent attitude, isn't it?, it has to defend, and we already know what it has to defend, and it's worth absolutely nothing. And what we would all have to ask ourselves, and we all ask ourselves, is a majority mission of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament. He comes here, for something it will be, right?, he comes here to work, for something it will be, that is, that is the question. And why he is coming, and he has already told us why he is coming and why he is coming, and he has already given us a series of conclusions and recommendations. I believe that the report is a great report, on the report, and because I also want to say that it seems that they have and not, the Committee on Petitions can go to anyone to attend; that is, if anyone sees that they are... The Committee on Petitions is doing a job, which the Basque Government or political parties can go there with their documents, with their work to bring to the Committee on Petitions, to the Committee on Petitions and Reports such as this are broadcast reports that also collect information, political information, the information that is sent to them, as is happening here. That is, but the European Parliament is not an anchovy Parliament, it is not a Parliament that has no procedures or rules or formulas, which is led by democratic political parties who know that they can contribute to the work of that committee. Is that, I mean, you can't (?) with the whining that they don't meet with me. No, no, if you can contribute, if you can contribute, and that's what they've collected from the institutions you've been with, isn't it? In this debate some have referred to me as... I don't know, I've been an instrument, I'm not the... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...have gathered from the institutions with which they have been. In this debate some have referred to me... I don't know, I've been an instrument. I am not the drafter of the report, as everyone knows. I mean... It has been a political committee represented by, I say again, which represents more than 600 Members of the 751, with Liberals, Socialists, Conservatives and Populars. I mean, it's there. I mean, it's part of it. And to us too, in the end, it may bother us whether they urge us or recommend us. We spent the day in this Parliament urging others. Not only to the Basque Government or to the Basque institutions, we go on to urge democratic and non-democratic governments, to institutions at all levels, to the UN, to the WHO, to the European Parliament many times, to the European Commission. If we spend much of our political time in committees and in the middle of many other bodies, why don't we have to analyze when someone looks at us, when someone tells us what happens, how they analyze our situation? I think that must be carried with a lot of sportsmanship and very well. But I think the point is that it is there, the recommendations and the conclusions are very clear. We, too, as this Parliament, have to remember in our contact with the European institutions... I had an absolutely rewarding experience when an exhibition on the victims of terrorism was organized with Izaskun Bilbao, when I was a member of the Bureau. And I have to say that apart from the Spanish parliaments, as we were in the Council of Europe, we were in the European Parliament in Brussels. That's the positive spirit. Well, things have been going on here ever since. There are 379 outstanding ETA cases. And someone says, "Well, we have to go on, we have to persevere." Besides, they recognize us... Because someone, Mrs. Gallastegui... They recognize our ability. And of course they fully respect our institutional legal framework. And they also say that we have those instruments to continue deepening. And I believe that, as I said before, criticizing the dynamics of other parliaments I believe is not fair. I mean, I think that, as we establish ours, the others establish theirs...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u63	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u64	I think... And in addition, all our groups are represented in that report, all our groups in one way or another, I mean, positive or negative, and all our groups are represented in the European Parliament. So I think it's good news. I would like to reiterate that I am calling for point 3 to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u65	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missa-Vox. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Well, what is obvious is that taking forceful measures to clarify the 379 still unresolved ETA crimes is something special and fundamental to our society, because knowing the truth of what happened also requires courage, commitment and decision. And I hope that in this, the Basque Government is in this kind of commitment because it is essential above all for a Basque society which, I repeat, always calls for redress and justice. Mr. Martinez Zatón was speaking, he said that... well, he's listed a lot of victims. But, I remind you, you have forgotten some also very important ones - this is where the party that each represents - you have forgotten the 110 million dead that caused communism in the world. Those didn't remember them. They also require a conviction, remember. Mrs Gallástegui, the crime against humanity has its legal basis in the Penal Code, Title 24, Crimes against the International Community, Chapter Two bis, of Crimes against Humanity, Article 607bis. But also, remember, it appears regulated in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, of which, let us not forget, it was ratified by Spain. What is clear is that crimes against humanity are those heinous and inhumane crimes that are part of a widespread attack on what is called the civilian population. If we analyze in detail this description which is the one that defines the crimes against humanity, we find that, in fact, they are defining everything that ETA did for 40 years. Therefore, what is unquestionable is that ETA crimes should be considered as crimes against humanity and therefore do not prescribe. Mr. Arzuaga, you've always lived in the world backwards. Not today, it's been common in you. Because, besides, those who do everything to hide the culprits of ETA crimes are you, they work hard on it. Those who do everything to welcome ETA killers as heroes are you, they do everything. You defend the indefensible, you have always done so, defend the murderers. And you tell us about partyism. The thief is believed to be all of his condition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u67	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Martínez Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u68	I repeat what I said in the first speech, Mr Barrio: bringing this debate in this way, with these characteristics, without taking any importance from it, in that way, allows us to listen in a debate of these ridiculous characteristics as the one we have just heard from the representative of the Joint Group. That if you are here, Mrs Martínez, it is because millions of people who were carrying or who died with this pin or with pine with other colors died for democracies to exist in Europe. That's why and not for another reason. And we fought him with the word, not... Turning to the subject, which I believe is important enough not to fall into the absurdities that we have heard in the previous round. I repeat, yes, it is partyism. Eta euskraz esaten da, anyway, hobeto eanda, alderdikeria. A spurious use of a subject that has been made by Parliament, or a part of the European Parliament, of that mission, to which the group we are in, the Group of the European United Left, because we do not participate in... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... or a part of the European Parliament, of that mission in which the group we are in, in the Group of the European United Left, because we did not participate in that mission and were not in the consideration of that report. And I say that it has been a spurious use of a mission, because I say again, if there was a mission from Parliament's delegation, that is, a delegation from the European Parliament to the Basque Country and the Spanish State, to deal with a subject as sensitive as the one it is dealing with, how does it not devote five minutes after being at the Victims Memorial, to being with Councilwoman Artolazabal? Or to be with the Speaker of Parliament? Or the Lehendakari? Or the Human Rights Committee of this Parliament? I believe that you yourselves, or whoever organized that delegation that was organized by a representative of the People's Party and a representative of Vox, were wrong, were wrong. They were wrong if they wanted to bring that report to give it the rest of a legitimacy that loses it by organizing it that way. Not because the entire content of the report is wrong, but because of its use. And the reflections of the European Commission, and Mrs Gallástegui, have already been told. And you, who participate in many international delegations of this Parliament, know perfectly well that when we go, for example to Colombia, we make an effort to meet with the plurality of Colombian society and the Colombian Parliament. Even if we are not received by the present Government. But we do. And you're no whiner, Mr. Barrio. And I say it again, you have been participating in this Parliament since the 1990s. To you for (...), you have been the person who has left most of this Parliament's missions. And this spirit of this Parliament is that: naturally we are interested in human rights violations or other issues, but talk to everyone. Not just with a part to be able to use it in a partisan way. And besides, I do not say it electoral or political, I say partyist in the pejorative sense of the word. Therefore, returning to the compromise amendment signed by nationalists, socialists and our group, we believe that today's debate is the basis that should unite us all. But I am glad about that compromise amendment; but I say again that in this debate, unfortunately, we have not won, because we have not managed to get out of this debate with a broad consensus on an issue that should be minimal; that is the basis in this country and in this Parliament for the rest of the agreements. A basis for the defence of victims, for the defence of their right to the recognition of truth, reparation and justice. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u69	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u70	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, counselors. I agree in part with how Mr Martínez Zatón has finished his speech. I don't think you've done any good. It has not exactly served Mr Barrio's purpose, because in reality these kinds of debates do not leave you a good taste of mouth. Fundamentally because... well, in the end I think there are many more agreements (...) but what is fundamentally seen is the dissent by fundamentally partisan positions, rather than of substance. But it has done one thing, and it is to re-ratify that not everyone does, not everyone has the same consideration for all the victims. Because the compromise amendment that we have signed, what comes to say and to acknowledge, not what it strictly says, is that the right to justice, to truth, to recognition, to reparation, to guarantees of non-repetition, of non-revictimization, corresponds equally to each and every one of the victims. Whatever the cause of your victimization. And this is something that you have not recognized yet, Mr Arzuaga. You have never participated... well, you were talking about the legitimacy, in the end, of the legitimacy of this committee of petitions that, by the way, asks this as the cow pasture asks... I mean, but it's a perfectly legitimate commission. It does not have any point of legitimacy as long as you state these issues firmly and strictly. Because the truth is that in that committee we deal with issues like we treat here any other, and often with an insistent repetition that already... Finally, it bores even the cows that are also asked for that pasture. What is true is that, of course, one can decide to participate or not. And what I do see is that you, for example, have never been involved in a nuclear issue. A question that legitimises the position of the socialists on this issue. For starters. And it's that decided bet, and I always... I don't think anyone can say no, in... against violence, from the unity of all democrats against violence, come from wherever it comes from. Because it has come from many places, but also from those places where you do not recognize it has come. And that has come and indeed, in fact, I believe that there is no doubt about the content of that violence and the consequences of that violence that even eleven years after the disappearance of ETA, are still alive in our society. That is why we call for progress towards democratic coexistence. And that is one of the reasons why that is incorporated into this text as well. It's a shame, because you guys in this field just... is that I didn't want to get into this, because it's... Finally, we are talking about a report from the European Commission. But you only meet with yourself, to hear yourselves. You don't meet with anyone to collaborate. In this matter, they have no way of overcoming those... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... You don't meet with anyone to collaborate. In this matter, they have no way of overcoming those barriers which I am not very sure will be overcome, but to which we are urging from the rest of the political formations to move forward. Important steps they have to take. It's very good to say that the victims feel the pain, but their killers are still being received between palms and joy. Listen, anyway, a little bit of respect. You have a hand in many things to do, Mr. Arzuaga, and you know it. And I understand many of the questions you raise. I understand them, but I can't share them. And with regard to other assessments, which will not give me time to enter, we will enter at another time, because we will have the opportunity, in short... It is difficult to assume and affirm or share with you that there are democratic institutions that you cannot have, you do not take them into account. Hey, please. You cannot talk about the dichotomy that Mr Barrio had in front of him with regard to consideration and with regard to the victims. And that's another question... And sensitivity. And that is another of the issues on which the Socialist Group, in that Commission, with all its express reticences and with all those amendments, voted in favour, in order to show that sensitivity to the victims which you too would very well like to begin to feel. And finally, for the analysts of this Parliament, Vox talking about humanity. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u72	President andrea. Mr Barrio, I in your second intervention believe that you have given the key to what is in the motion we are debating today, what is behind that motion. You said, "I have been an instrument." Indeed, you have been an instrument of a strategy that has been very repeated in recent times, especially in recent years, since you are constrained by that coalition between the extreme right and the extreme right in which you participate both in the State and in Europe, in the European Parliament, in this case in the Committee on Citizens' Petitions of the European Parliament. Because you know very well that this Commission did not behave well in the drafting of this report. He did not behave well in the conduct of a parliamentary institution. You are a veteran man - as you have said - you have participated in many missions, you have shared with the European Parliament itself the forms of action. I have shared with you, with the Committee on Agriculture, for example, in the 9th Parliament, on a visit by the Committee on Agriculture chaired by an illustrious-named party partner of yours, Carmen Fraga. And we share not only the working table, but also the table, in normalised relations, when a European institution visits Euskadi to do a job that, in principle, will also involve recommendations to that administration or to those public authorities. And you know that's not a procedure. You are convinced, in substance, that this report is not a valuable report in this regard; in the sense that it captures, on the one hand, the views, concerns, wishes, demands of all victims of terrorism and political violence in Euskadi, but not all efforts, all public policies, all the work that we have been doing in this country for decades in favour of the rights of victims. Therefore, today you have been an instrument of a strategy that again fails in this Parliament, because it is true that you won, the report was adopted by a majority, but do not trap us. Formally, the Commission is a committee, it is a parliamentary body, of course, totally legitimate, but it does not represent 600 votes in its vote. I guarantee you, no. In any case, it'll be 599. Because, of course, Izaskun Bilbao's vote, which is part of the Renew Group in Europe, does not share the vote of the person who represented the Renew Group in that Commission. Because you also know that the European Parliament is not like this Parliament in which the groups always have a unique and unique sense of vote, because it is not, and you know it perfectly well. So don't try to make a profit and take advantage of that. What we are doing today is to respond to this desire of yours to be an instrument by adopting, by a very large majority of this Parliament, a declaration of recognition, of the reaffirmation of the recognition of the rights to truth, justice and reparation of all victims: of all victims of terrorism - victims of ETA terrorism, victims of LAG terrorism -, of other terrorism - victims of police abuse, of State violence -, of all victims, in short, of political violence in this country. It urges the authorities, the Basque Government, to continue to promote the public policies of memory and victims that have been developing for years and to which we are committed from the institutions. And that it will also transfer to the European Parliament the will of this Parliament to follow, to work together with the European Parliament in these policies, but it will also transfer to the European Parliament. And Mrs Ametzola will receive, as you are well aware, because it is the procedure of this Parliament, will receive a certification signed by the first secretary of the House, and with the approval of the President, in which she is moved by Parliament's regret for the conduct of the Committee on Citizens' Petitions in drawing up this report. That is what this Parliament is going to adopt today, and that is what is going to be moved: regret and the will and desire to continue to cooperate in these policies. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u73	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...no more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u74	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u75	Thank you. Puntualizzio txiki bat, Gallástegui andrea. You said that the European Commission itself disallowed this mission because it told you that it had no competence to verify issues relating to Spanish justice. You came, came, super comfortable with the company, because that's it, all right. This Commission - which only asks who it is interested in - talks about clarifying, truth and justice. And I'm going to give you, Mr. Barrio, some data, as you say you're an instrument. I agree with Mr Iturrate that it is more than an instrument: you are a party, a very interested party. But I'm going to offer you some insight into what that justice and institutional action has been like. In the name of justice, 71 war councils, military courts and summary trials were held that affected at least 238 people. Justice was applied to Txiki and Otaegi, shooting them, plus ten other death sentences, subsequently commuted. The justice applied by the court of law and order prosecuted almost 2,000 people without any guarantees. In the name of justice, truth, clarification, today a life sentence is applied with a penal code 1,000 times more severe than that Penal Code of 1973; that is, the Franco code. This Commission, which does not ask, should know that, according to a report by the Basque Government, 40,000 people were arrested, of which also official sources, the Ministry of the Interior itself, assures that 10,000 were imprisoned for their relationship with ETA. That is, 30,000 arbitrary arrests. About 6,000 people were tortured according to government reports. But they do not ask, because this Commission is not interested in these things, because it may harm its conclusions. And you come to tell us that there are half the cases that are solved, or half the cases that are unsolved. And with these figures in hand, I ask you what should have been done. Multiply the actions of the justice system and the State security forces for two? Double these figures? Arrest 80,000 people? Incarcerated at 20,000? Torturing 12,000? Fusillar, sentence to death twice as many of those who did it? And therefore, PSE, PNV, Podemos, I thought this initiation was to be stopped, and therefore we made no correction. We can't even accept the medium you've brought with us because we think you buy them a frame in some way. And, as is said, when such an initiation is brought by PP, it is not the end that sin is dead. They don't talk about sharing a few notebooks of the truth or a few reports. They don't talk about an alternative or a transitional justice. They speak of retributive justice, they speak of punishment, they speak of revenge, they speak of rematch. You accept this frame, and they will execute it in order that it may proceed in the injustice of the National Court. They're going to twist the basic projection principles that exist, the predictive retroactive period of punishment, they're going to produce a wider interpretation of penal types, in order to arrest and imprison more citizens of euscals. After all, to bring more suffering to the Basque Family. And that can't be accepted. And that frame can't be bought. We brought an initiation last week to stop the ultra-handed initiation. He answered the Ultra right in the block. They felt attacked, they felt interjected, they answered in the block, Vox, Ciudadnos and PP moving into the block. And this is what we see today how far the line of ultra right reaches and why they're ready to put in their schedule. And today, unfortunately, I think you bought their speech somehow. And with your correction, you've somehow given them a space with your transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. After the discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u77	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the full line of Mistto-Vox. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u78	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Sozialists and Eucabertists. Point to point, if there's no problem. We'll vote one, two, four, five. Dots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opposites, 20; the bonus, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u79	It's accepted. And next time, we vote for number three. We can vote. [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...has been accepted. And next time, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites, 27; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u80	So the third point is accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by Lore Martin, by the parliamentary members of the Axpe EH team, concerning how the treaty signed with Google will be confirmed in the treaty of Western Education. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Martinez Axpe has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u81	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. While I was preparing to discuss today's motion, I thought of what had happened to Analytica and Facebook in 2018 at Cambridge. Cambridge was a British firm and he was studying mass data and exploitation. Facebook offered millions and millions of data to Cambridge Analytic without permission from its users. It has been said that he received from the Jewish state 87 million and 2,7 million Europeans without their permission. One of their activities was focused on the 2016 elections of the United States. Target to win elections. Among the investments of Cambridge Analytic there were great investments of right-hand conservatives. They received a number of data, examined the data, applied to it an enlarged knowledge, and an artificial intelligence. To win the election, they marked it in the first-rate States. In other words, the States were to be touched by the republicans in order to gain their victory. And that's what they did. With the data of the population of these states, the algorithms danced and manipulated the behavior of the people. They were welcome to their information, to bombard them, to change their conduct and opinions. And even if this gives a science fiction film, it's just an event that's been going on a few years ago. Yeah, because with data, manipulating people's behavior is vibrant. Not ego, but it's viable. And as they are capable of affecting their conduct, they may be led to satisfy several interests. And when there's money in front of it, it's no matter how much it is to praise racialism, to encourage arms, to carry them all to the presidence of the Naranja man. That's exactly what Facebook and Cambridge Analytica were accused of enpresies. And Brexita did the same thing. Here, too, Cambridge Analytic put his hand in it. And the same happened in other countries. I don't know if you guys know him, but there's a documentary research about this. It's called The Great Hack. I strongly recommend you see it, it's very interesting. What am I talking about today in the parliament of the law? Well, to appreciate the importance of the data today. The knowledge of the data of Pertsion may lead to manipulative action of persons. Invisibly manipulation, but which is very remarkable and terrible in consequences, because it may compromise the democracy itself, and debase it as it passed in the United States −. In the presence of this consciousness is necessary, and in a digital manner, we must protect democracy and freedom, and take whatever measures may be required to prevent it. And on this road we had the news yesterday of a new development of data protection. May 18, 2022. Data Residents Agency has decided against Google. In the process that started against Google, he has decided that this company will have to pay a $10 million fine to protect the data by breaking the general rules. And this is yesterday's news. For breaking data and privacy. Ten million fines for a gigantic technuct like Google, it's nothing. That the profit they receive for the sake of the scratch will probably be much greater. About the data, we've heard it many times. The gold of the century, that they are petoleum, are gold and oil; but I should say that the data is more than gold and petroreal. Data, human rights. Therefore, when giant technists say they give their services for free, we ought to ask ourselves a question: How much of the data in them, knowledge, and human rights, are there in them? And because the data is human rights is so important is the independence of the data. And of course, to be the independence of the data, the informal resources we use to collect and study these data, they fill the essential part. And having brought this to education, that's why it's so important... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... they fill the essential part. And when this is brought to education, it is so important that it is so important to have means of technology, to read the source code, and to examine what is done with the data, free; therefore it is so important that, in the case of a public administration, it is essential that the public should be reassigned to the right use of money. In short, it is so important that the possibility of free software should be part of the digital transformation of our education. Because picking free software is more than picking a certain technology. It's a matter of philosophy. Free software makes us free. He shares knowledge, the community is built. Free software is a tool for transforming society, equality, democracy, support, cooperation, and solidarity, which helps us to produce a more fair world. Supports the stocks too: the chance to spend co-operation, autonomy, expense, study passion, conputative thought, imagination, and creation, to live on euphora. He prepares us for digital society and raises free citizens. And knowing the benefits of free software, we have no digital software platforms today. Today, we have Microsoft 365, Google Works and Moodle. A three digital platform does not have the same conditions. So the Free Software Moodle is at a disadvantage. For, since Moodle is a highly competent education tool, this − must also be underlined, it is an excellent education tool, it is not made up of other digital tools that are required. On the other hand, Google Workspace and digital Microsoft 365 platforms add other application and functionality so that they become integrated education platforms. And so it is not at the present time guaranteed to offer the free software education platform for the purpose of education. That's why colleges can't choose three schools on the same condition between platforms. And that's why we introduced this motion. Seeing also that the alternative exists and is already started in Barcelona, from the Digital Democratic we have so often alluded to. Educational platform is operational, which is analogous to Google Works and Microsoft 365, but is based on open software. And now I'm gonna focus on the motion. In Google for EH Collect, there's no guarantee of the basics of education agreements on the digital area. We explained several arguments in our interference to the chairman of the Union, and I shall never repeat them again. And let it be clear, EH Collect does not protect the agreement signed by the Education Department. And when we have said this, we have agreed with the government of the middle course of our motion, for we think it most important to define, to develop, develop, and to make a pilot of tests a digital platform on which the free software is based. It is essential to guarantee the digital, responsible, active, and effective transformation of education. And it is essential that the student's digital rights and privacy should be respected, and that he should use the means of technological, re-arrest, free, and transparent. In other words, we need a free education platform that will play at the Champs-Elysees, which, like the girls of Real, will be at the highest. This free educational platform is fully compatible with the choice of the technology of EH Collectors, and therefore what we have agreed to do today is to celebrate. There are four points around the Moment, I won't read them all. I'm sure you'll have what we've agreed to. And four points, I'm sorry, there's five points. In the first place, to advance in the digitally integrated alpha-bombing of the schools is referred to the power of the professors and students. In the second place, betting on ethical and responsible digitalization. In the third place, the development of the structure and apparatus we have mentioned at the previous moment. And I'll focus on the fourth: to define, to develop, and to initiate in certain schools, the autonomy principle of the ingredients and schools, an integral platform of digital education. This platform will be formed by technology solutions of free software, and will be able to satisfy and complete the technology necessary for schools. It will offer analogous solutions of the other platforms which are offered, in assurance that schools choose on the same conditions. And students from other platforms... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... He will offer them, on the assurance that schools choose under the same conditions. And from other platforms he will also have occasion to import his disciples; he will also have occasion to import his disciples. This is important, too. Most of the platforms we have today in education, O sera, most of the students are in a certain condition. And when we make this second test pilot, we have to make that choice work. That is to say, when it comes to be, when the test pilot is well seen, that what is done with free software is valid, we must choose to be able to bring the students on other platforms to this platform. The digital form of education is mentioned by two points towards the resurrection: human resources and informal resources and preparation. It's... When a test pilot is placed who are indispensable, let the teachers know how to use it for his pupils. Through the evaluation investigation of the system that is recorded in the education agreement, and the euccanic organization, the digital education-form test pilot will be co-ordinately coordinated with the group of digitalizations in the section. And let him encourage the use of free software to do digital education in all the EAE schools, with information and preparation for students, family and teachers. Two other forms of education are sufficiently well known. And free software is not socialized at all. And it's time for free software to be published, and the education community to know and choose. This is what you get in motion. And I'd like to take advantage of the next one, he doesn't show himself in motion, but neither today nor today, Mr. Zingira, nor Mr. Zupiria, but I'd appreciate it, and this is a personal request since I'm a Basque and eucalypous eucalist, if at any time anglizism turns aside and we put a word on this digital education platform for eucasure. I'd be very grateful, and I think we would. Thank you. Finally, the middle-way motion of today presupposes a tremendous progress in the digital transformation of education. And I'd like to thank you for the attitude that's been to the agreement. Mr. Pastor, from PSE, and especially the distant EAJ, we have discussed so much about you and I of the free software. And see, in the end, who would say not, eh? A prize and a Arch-Community-Songster to the agreement, right? We'd make a deal. Just like that. I hope this agreement we've taken is the digital transformation of education, well, the first bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u82	And thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today, as you all know, the motion following the inquiry that on the agreement signed by the Department of Education with Google presented the group EH Bildu on May 6. Interpellation which sought to demonstrate the possible collision between the agreement signed with Google and the basic agreement of the Basque educational system. We should start by saying that signing an agreement with Google seems normal and appropriate. We believe that the obligation of the Department of Education is to enable educational institutions to use the best available digital platforms. And that, today, is Moodle, Google and Microsoft. And I wish there were more powerful ones. But I think we'd be doing an anomaly if we didn't have the option of having that internationally recognized platform in Euskadi. Let's take advantage of what private initiative does well without trying to reinvent the wheel again. And that is what we have included in our amendment. And what we ourselves do in the governments that carry the education portfolio, like that of Andalusia, where we offer exactly the same three platforms to educational institutions. The opposite is to try to limit the options to our centers and our students and force them to work, whether they like it or not - and we are always with the same thing - with a single free software platform that seems to be more than EH Bildu's liking, to which Google seems the personification of all evils. In this dichotomous thought of black or white, good or bad, Google is bad and free software is good. In fact, it is a matter of the usual, of limiting the choices of others and of imposing on them their closed, fearful, old, localist and isolated vision. That in this case we are talking about education for children, for whom we should want an open, multinational, innovative, advanced, modern vision, because it is not an obstacle, but, on the contrary, it is an aggravating factor, given the interest that EH Bildu has always had in shaping and directing the education of our children to ensure that they do not have a too open and cosmopolitan mentality, it is not going to be that they enter international airs and they can see that their national construction project has no meaning and no future. Because that is what they are defending with this initiative, in which they bet on a Euskaldun digitization, one of the striking phrases that adorn the basic agreement. In fact, they are betting because we close the doors and eyes to the advances of the present world and focus, as always, on reinventing the wheel, to ensure that our wheel is Basquedun enough. It's the usual thing, closing doors and windows so that no one in there can see clearly what's going on out there is not going to be that they like it... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...Euskaldun enough. It's the usual thing: close doors and windows so that no one inside can see clearly what's going on outside, it's not going to be that they like it more than this and the castle of cards that they're continually trying to mount comes down. Mrs Martínez talks about how the data allows the manipulation of students and people, and I do not know if what is really behind it is precisely an intention to prevent others from being manipulated so that they can do it directly. Finally, free software does not prevent the danger of data manipulation. Free software does what it does is that whoever manipulates the data doesn't know who it is. Google is subject to extensive international regulations, and I believe that in that sense the option is clear. Now, beyond the substance of the proposal, this is an episode that reflects very well what we have been saying from the beginning about the basic agreement. Looks like Bildu and Podemos don't like this deal with Google, because they see it as an attack on the agreement's flotation line. And I think they're right. On the other hand, the Government considers that the agreement is consistent with the agreed basis, and I also believe that they are right, because the famous agreement of the four nationalist groups allows for all kinds of interpretations. It was striking to see how in the interpellation you read each other the parts of the agreement that best suited each one, because they were all and some more. And EH Bildu called for the cancellation of the agreement with Google on his initiative, because he considered that they clashed head-on with the signed basis agreement. And it says so even in the title of the initiative. However, we see that in the transactional they have signed that requirement has disappeared, I don't know if it is because suddenly the signing of the agreement with Google has stopped bumping head-on with the base agreement or because EH Bildu has invaded it without indecentness, which could also be. We already said it. This is a fragile agreement, with many calculated ambiguities and balances impossible to endure when it comes to drafting the law. I venture, therefore, new difficulties between you. And we could say that it will be fun to attend that battle to see who gets away with it, if not because what is at stake is the future of education and of all Basque society. Gentlemen of Bildu and Podemos, we all know how the PNV operates in its two-handed coalitions. That you are interested in the extent to which it allows you to stage a great deal, and in the meantime, you manage to deactivate you as opposition. But deep down they are looking forward to doing what they want to do, also above their own government partner, as they have already tried in the basic agreement, and as we have just seen in this transaction. It's his way of doing things. Four decades ruling Euskadi as if it belonged to him, and that heritage attitude of our land is not going to change overnight. So you're going to try to change it as soon as you're taken care of, as you can already see and as you denounce it with some reason, even though we don't share the substance of the matter. But gentlemen of PNV and Socialist Party, very careful with the operation you have made, because as long as you sell a great country agreement, you have gone too far in succession to Bildu. We have denounced it and even told the lehendakari. I imagine that you trust that at the time of truth, as you are the ones who will rule, you will continue to do what you always do. But be careful, among other things, because the basic agreement involves the creation of several agencies and mechanisms with which Bildu can further control Basque education, even without being in government. That is why, gentlemen of the Government, we are once again reaching out to you and telling you that if you set up the basic agreement and draw up the right law, we will be able to find ourselves, because we will make every effort to ensure that we do not leave the future of our children and young people in Bildu's hands. And this is precisely one of the specific issues on which we can find ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Monsieur Martínez Izón, who represents the Podemos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u85	Mr. Counselor is not in front of you, but Joe, if you've come to make friends... A little complicated, a little complicated. All right, it's an interpelration. We have an Interrogation of free software, it has a great interest in the matter, and great disputes were given before we signed the Word of Education, and we spent long hours talking about the different subjects, and also about this. And that's why we were surprised when we met this contract that was signed with Google, because we spent a lot of hours in these meetings in different places, even at the Lake, this Eusgé. And at the same time our conversation with the government was talking to Google, and they were talking to us about free software, and we didn't know about it. That's why we asked, and that's why we accused my colleague, Isa Gonzalez, on that question we asked. Again, this is the day to which we are to accuse this contract signed with Google, which is contrary to the principles of the education agreement, and also is opposed to our principles. And it's a first warning to navigators. We and we are willing and willing to face contradictions, to leave some debates pending in favour of the educational agreement which we believe that if applied correctly and faithfully to the spirit and the letter of the agreement, it can be a lever for change and strengthening the public school and for combating school segregation. Confronting contradictions yes, pauffantas no. Free software is the one that guarantees equal opportunities... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...to face contradictions yes, pauffantas, no. Free software is the one that guarantees equal opportunities for all schools, for each and every one of the schools in a current dual and segregating network that maintains social inequalities, which is what we have right now in Euskadi. It protects data protection, free software, cheaper, even more organic. Even the only software that protects or guarantees technology. And that's why we repeat that this agreement signed with Google is a violation of all these principles. We agree with several points signed or placed in the middle term, but we haven't signed it because a lot of things have already been included in this education agreement. And at the same time, because the motion is out of order, or so I can only speak in our name−, whom we accused in our question, was just the agreement with Google. We must not improvise with such an important subject for the educational transformation and for the digital transformation of our educational system. We are glad that this pilot plan has been collected, but this pilot plan does not, for example, have a date of implementation, and the educational agreement establishes a date of education since March..., of execution, of forgiveness, from March to 12 years, in what, in what margin will this pilot test be. Because, I say again, it is not a question of improvising, it is a question of doing it right, and we think that there is sufficient knowledge in Euskadi to be able to do it, but we think that we cannot leave it without a concrete date of execution. Therefore, we have not signed the agreement that has been signed today, we will support it, but we do not sign it, because we still lack the clear and consistent denunciation of that agreement signed with Google, which I say again, violates the principles of the educational agreement, and that we therefore advocate that the Government adhere to the spirit and the letter of the educational agreement so that we can remain present in it, and we can continue to take decisive steps by public education in Basque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u86	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u87	Good morning. Well, first of all, I want to tell Mr Gil that I find his concern for the Socialists immeasurable, but don't worry that we have demonstrated over many decades and decades that we know how to take care of ourselves perfectly alone, to be possible without the accompaniment of the right. Well, the issue that Euskal Herria Bildu brings us here today, to this plenary, seems to us to be a very important issue for education, and it will also be much more important in the future, because it is, in short, a matter of progress in digital transformation and inclusion. It consists of the integral digital literacy of the centres, strengthening the training of teachers and students, with infrastructures and tools facilitating a quality training process that meets certain values: equity, equal opportunities in the field of technology, through the development of the actions of the Digital Transformation Plan of the Basque educational system. In fact, in compliance with the basic agreement on digital transformation and inclusion, the Governing Council of 26 April last approved the Digital Transformation Plan of the Basque Educational System 2022-2024. And given the presence of digital technologies in all areas of our lives, the education system must not only adapt, but must become an agent of change and innovation. Students, staff, educational institutions and families must be able to take advantage of the numerous opportunities provided by digital technologies to advance teaching, learning, communication and creativity. It is therefore necessary to bet on ethical and responsible digitisation, in accordance with the principles emanating from the Digital Education Action Plan of the European Commission, by providing easy-to-use and secure solutions, tools and technological platforms that respect privacy and ethical standards and provide the high-value-added services that educational institutions demand. The new plan is one of the key priorities identified in 2020 by the European Commission's Digital Education Action Plan, which sets out two priorities: first, to promote the development of a high-performance digital educational ecosystem, among which requirements are equipped with user-friendly tools and secure platforms that respect privacy and ethical standards; secondly, to develop digital skills and capabilities for digital transformation through the development of skills and competences from an early age that ensure that girls and young women are equally represented in studies and digital careers. To develop the above-mentioned infrastructures and tools, in accordance with the standards set by the information and communication technology management model in the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community, in accordance with the provisions of Decree 36/2020, and the guidelines on Administration, Security and Privacy Guarantee, in accordance with existing legislation. The Department of Education should make available to the centres the tools they choose on the basis of their needs. Currently, they mostly choose those educational platforms that they consider most appropriate within their educational project. And it is lawful for them to do so, because schools have to have the capacity to choose. They cannot be required to enter exclusively into a system. Therefore, we understand that the agreement signed with Google is not an end in itself, but is an additional tool. A tool, by the way, of very common and widespread use in society. And we must not forget our obligation to equip the student with the tools that will also allow him to develop in the environment around him. That's why we didn't just understand that false dichotomy between authorization... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... provide the student with the tools that will also allow him to develop in the environment around him. That's why we didn't just understand that false dichotomy between Google's authorization and that of other alternative free software technologies. Because we understand that, first of all, at this stage in which we are, we must respect the will of educational institutions to choose one or the other tool. The proposal that was presented to us initially established a single line of action, that of free software - which, by the way, also defended Podemos - and although it seems to us that, in fact, that is the tool of the future, that does not mean that the capacity of educational institutions to choose the tool that it considers most interesting or more useful for its center at the present time should be ignored. Therefore, the responsibility of the Administration is to allow the free choice of both alternatives. From the beginning, the aim is to respect the principle of complementarity of tools and autonomy of the centres. And if not, you may ask in the schools, that at the beginning of the course you have to opt for a certain computer service, which one you will choose if the free software system is not yet developed and only those centers that have the matter well thought out and are very aware can start to run it. That is why we propose in our amendment to define a pilot project in educational centres, for the development of a digital education platform composed of technological solutions of free software, capable of responding and integrating the necessary components to meet the technological needs of the centres. It is not a question of establishing a false debate between free software and other tools like Google, but of making them complementary, because they will necessarily be in the future. In any case, the terms of the agreement signed with Google have the agreement of the Basque Data Protection Agency. This is determined by the analysis carried out in the opinion on the agreement signed with Google. The safety measures for the Google Workspace platform have been evaluated and have been certified in accordance with the safety scheme in the upper category. And a simple point. In recent weeks, we have had the opportunity to listen to various appearances from various Catalan educational centers and some from the Basque Country, and from the City of Barcelona itself, which were betting on the development of free software. Undoubtedly positive experiences that will have to be extended in the future. But I want to need it. These initiatives today do not count, as we know, with the support of the Department of Education of the Generalitat of Catalonia. They are individual initiatives and have the technical support of the City Council of Barcelona. That's where the engagement comes in. It should be noted, however, that the Basque Digital Educational Transformation Plan 2022-2024 proposes the incorporation of digital technologies at all educational levels, taking advantage of its potential to improve and diversify teaching and learning practices, and to develop digital skills. One of the specific lines of the new Plan is to apply cybersecurity techniques for three purposes: increase data protection and privacy of users, avoid identity theft and intrusion into the learning environment, and prevent cyber attacks. In short, we are committed to the complementarity of free software and private software, to the extent that both meet the needs of educational projects within our centres on the basis of their autonomy. Something that seems absolutely essential to us. That is the criterion by which we have tabled an amendment to the whole of which we believe reflects the implementation of solutions to this issue. And, of course, I would like to thank Euskal Herria Bildu and Mrs Martínez for their willingness to reach an agreement which I believe has made it easier for us to have a very good proposal at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u88	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Good afternoon by now. First. I think it's a subject that's going through the technical area with a very large step. After all, because it's true, and we all suspect that it can be touched by our own free individual. But the first idea I'd like to give you today is what I've been giving you in a show. I think that to take this subject seriously, I do not say that it is not taken seriously, but that it may be really deep, first of all, that we ought to draw it out of the speech of fear, because it is often practised with this kind of discourse. And this is true of education, having children. And that takes care of us all. But how ideas spread, are controlled by us, and so on, I don't think they're helping a direct analysis and reflection. In the same way as these suspects are spread, could they even spread themselves on the other side? And I really think we're fighting our own interests. A lot of things get mixed up, for instance, the loss of freedom of individual life. And clarro, that's what we've created in this technological society, where we can't refuse technological resources. For this reason, I shall develop a little more, and it must be the first idea of regulating and regulating the right. Freedom and the way forward, like society and the freedom of individuals, will not be shaken. It also interferes with an technology of independence, and I believe that the technology of independence is a much wider concept. And I dare say, above all, that we ought to place this technology of independence in Europe... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... that it is much larger. And I dare say, above all, that we ought to place this technology of independence in Europe. And I bring with it, in the occurrence, − I'll remember with his name, but I think it was an Italian with a chain, I think it might be signora − Levi, where we had a real reflection about the digital power that Europe has to direct. The problem is, in the end, not to stigmatize a company, or to be an American Google, I know that all these things can affect even the Dutch politics, perhaps we should begin to think of it as European why we don't have another one in Europe. And even in an imaginary company like that, in Europe, economic interests might be the same, but here the key is in the law again. And all the confidence that Europe will do is to regulate it properly. And while we're talking about regulating it, that's what Eukok's been doing. That's what he did in the Google signed contract. In the end, there were those who were using this 226 school utility, and this agreement seems to have been in a legal limbo by this use, and now a frame has been given to them. And what this agreement has made is to give a rule to the tools that use these 226 schools. Klaro, if we were to start thinking now what would happen if the agreement were to be cancelled, well, that the legal protection of that agreement would remain unprotected, and that we would return to the litibum Judic. And if we take that to the end, what should we do? Forbid the use of Google in our education systems? Well, I think that's neither serious nor effective, neither real nor practical. The digital rights of the students and their privacy are guaranteed in this treaty. It's a promise that Google does not include publicity in his products for education use, as defined by a member of the state-wide digital rights. And the Eusko-Mork says it in practice, 'cause all software that buys and develops are supposed to follow those rules. Otherwise they couldn't use them. I shall have a conversation about this little while ago that I saw in New York, and also about this, of what I am saying. I was glad to hear the words of Mrs. Iranche's wife's confession, which she said, "The contract fills the law for the protection of European data, doesn't sell the data." Look, there's Europe coming back to us. It's said Moodle doesn't compete on the same terms with G. Suite and O365. Well, in 2008, the education system plan started, and then all the schools had a chance to use it. The Board of Education did not provide with one system or another. The result is, according to the data I have today, that in this legislation, 226 schools use the G Suite, 50 use Moodle. It may be said, and may perhaps be reason, because it is not sufficiently known to Moodle or others of free software. But there's something else to be aware of too. People like to use what most people use. And when I say most of them, I am not only thinking of what may happen in euscal education, but also of the whole world. And today I think it wouldn't be smart, it'd be smart to replace one for the other. From the idea Mr. Pastor has fired, I'd say we should go on the way to the ingredient. Also mention free software promotion and information sessions. Well, let's say what the department does about it. The department has allowed the centres to choose what they think best, and it suggests that software best adapts to the needs of schools, whether it be free or not. And when the department believes that there are good tools of the free software, it has made them available to the centres, it has enabled them to use and integrate with them. And just a few facts. 330 (... ) to create and manage their web page; 225 cententre Moodl for online instruction, 561 school file management with the official Alfrets; FET hours' creation is integrated with DEAD; FreeOffice installed on 800 PC (... () FreeOffice education on network laptops and computers; teams in secondary education and High Schooling groups are handing out without installation, but they have the possibility of opening LibreOffice from the software catalog in the section. And there would be more to be said of them. The question is, who is here against free software? Nobody. Let us look for, as we have said, the ingredient. On the subject of this, we have tabled an amendment with the Socialist Group, with some ideas that I believe clearly affect the way forward. On the one hand, progress in the integral digital literacy of the centres, strengthening the training of teachers and students through the development of the actions of the Plan for the Digital Transformation of the Basque educational system. I believe that this perfectly coincides with what has so many times been criticized for what is mentioned in the educational agreement, to bet on ethical and responsible digitisation in accordance with the principles emanating from the European Commission's Digital Education Action Plan - once again Europe - to develop the infrastructures and tools mentioned in the previous point according to the standards set by the management model, and all on the basis, in accordance with Decree 36/2020. And it's just that we'll always have to give legal support to all that... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... the management model, and all on the basis, in accordance with Decree 36/2020. And it is that, to all that we will always have to give legal support, and respecting, as has already been mentioned several times, the principle of complementarity of tools and the autonomy of the centers, define a pilot project for the development of a digital education platform composed of technological solutions of free software. Good. Once again, I believe that the amendments we are presenting are developing the ideas that I have tried to mention in this speech. Finally, yes. We've come to a deal, and I'd say that I'm glad of it. Mrs. Martinez... Yes, it is true that the agreement between the Arechabaltians and the Scyrus has never been easy. But perhaps this is a double merit. By no means, Mrs. Martinez, would I say above all the stories of the Sckoria and the Arechabale, the Jelt Party and the EH Collectors, I think, and I have that feeling, here in old days (Lare and Confession?) that they have acted, and have risked it. And I'd say that makes me particularly happy. For, besides, I believe in politics that sometimes it is not enough for him... the human factor gives a sufficiently important importance to the human factor. And I'm convinced he's got a hell of a weight. By no means, although the misfortune of the great sweeper must always be well with the Arechabals, if it is good for our people, let the human factor always be the compact, and let us live together, this happy misfortune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Misto-Vox, he mustn't speak. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Martinez, Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u91	You can't imagine that there are so many flowers in the flower. How did I stop? I'm just a little... Thank you for your thanks when it's on the other side of the room. ), for his words. And, well, I shouldn't have participated, but I had to get up to thank you for your words. And then I'd like to give our Mr. Gil an answer. You always talk about freedom and potentialities. I believe that EH Collect has taken a step forward, and that when we speak of the inposators, the two platforms which have been introduced have been brought about by great technology. Yes, yes, Google, Worspaces, and Microsoft 365, that's the composition. Because free software had no choice. And college, students, and families have not given that opportunity, they've given them a one-armed Moodle. Then not to mention the disclosure. And besides, it's totally the opposite. We gave freedom. We have given freedom to students, families, and schools, to have digital education-forms under the same conditions under the same conditions. If that's not freedom, you'll tell me what it is. And, well, I'm going to end it simply at times with a phrase that Maddalen Irritart has often mentioned, but I'll take it in a digital environment: even in the digital environment, ours, is freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Well, (...) he is suspected of closeness to the management of the Department of Education that Mr. Bildarratz does. But I want to make it clear that on this occasion I think they have been right. I think they've been right because it's actually what we have to do, it's what national people do. The original PNV amendment said exactly the same as ours. And we thought we'd support her. But, with the compromise you have made, you have introduced contents that prevent us from supporting it, and we will vote against it. I believe – I agree with Mr Pastor, without precedent – that the autonomy of the centres must be supported. And this I think is the key. That is, it is they who really know the needs of their reality, of their center, of their students; and it is they who have to be able to choose. The deal with Google, all it does is facilitate that ability to choose, and I think that on that line we might wish we could make deals with 14 other platforms if it were just as powerful. And Mr. Martinez Zatón, you're right. I didn't come here to make friends. It's obvious. True prius peace. The truth is that Podemos has left me somewhat out of this process with this initiative, because first he presented an amendment that was exactly the same, you were able to see, that the Bildu initiative. Exactly. I had thought some difference from some coma, I was told I haven't found it, but it may be. In a process of absorption and fusion with Bildu, which is already very evident. And then they don't sign the transaction, in one exercise, I recognize, that of consistency. I'm glad you've stopped being a clown. They're his words. But that means that you consider that the signing of the agreement with Google has violated the basic agreement of the new Education Act. What we were saying therefore: the agreement is a trap that is only intended to deactivate the opposition, and that is what is working. So we will also vote against your proposal. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, not even. Eubertarians... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... and so did he. Eubertarians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u95	Yeah. With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Well, one can't always be bitter, can it? Sometimes you have to be sweet. But I had two things: one to Popular Party, and the other to Podemos. Mr Gil, it is true that your amendment at one point said the same thing as ours did. That's right. Betting on the autonomy of the centers, etc. I think ours was more complete. And I believe that with the agreement that we have reached, it still encompasses a greater degree of complementarity, and that it could reach a greater degree of consensus. I think it is a matter of political will not to enter and not to support that agreement. I am not going to refer to the words of his first intervention, in which we were dealing with heritageists. Well, anyway, I don't think it's the subject of today's debate, nor is it worth too much to get into it. And finally, together with Podemosis one thing. When I spoke to you first, I sometimes didn't quite understand your argument, because on the one hand you said everything was against education agreement, and then you said that what we signed is already in an education agreement, and that's why you're going to protect it. I think there's a contradiction there that you'll have to tell yourself one day. And in conclusion, you have expressed some doubt as to whether the Department of Education will adhere to the educational agreement. Mr Martínez, have no doubt that you will be girded and that the Department of Education will, of course, try to do so in the same method and methodology that you have done so far and that has led us to what I understand to be a success. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u96	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendment that has been signed by Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of the ;67 opposites, 6; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-19.u97	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. See you tomorrow. The meeting ended at two and thirteen o'clock in the afternoon.
