ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I inform you that Estiliz has taken the vote of Laruri. First point in theme list: "Eubertarians, Euscal Socilists, and together the bill of law made by the parlamentary Podemos-IU teams, do not neglect the transsexualsity of the genus, and change the 14/12 Law of June on the confession of their rights for the second time. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. On the other hand, apart from three, these teams... I also want to collect EH... Is anyone else involved? Does PP have to take the shift? Side shift? Okay. Then four teams. We'll begin together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Mrs. Gonz, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u1	Well, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President, chief physician. With the consideration of this bill, the reform of Law 14/2012 on non-discrimination against transgender persons and the recognition of their rights, we continue with the path we started on June 28, 2019 in this House, when we recognize the right to non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity, sexual orientation or on the basis of sex. This right has been largely developed in the international treaty, such as the Covenants of the United Nations, and obliges the members to enter and to develop those treaties. From what has been received in the constitution, to the legislature of individuals; Today, in ours, we've taken a step to go deeper. This reform is a historic, present and future debt, because there is still much to be done, much to be repaired and much to be transformed, and especially because we cannot delay any longer. We connected with historical moments in 2018, when the World Health Organization depatologized trans reality, taking it off its list of mental disorders; also with 2019, as I said, when in Euskadi we recognized the right to be and the right to exist for all people. Hor erakundeen tratu txarrei éta eskubide horren bortxaketa systematikoari amareira ematen zitzaion trans kolektiboarentzat. We can't and don't want to forget about a lot of people today. Gaur gogoan dut Francis, beer hilketa Errenterian, age 2019ko akordioa garaiz iritsi ez zen horrekin ere bat Egyptian dugu. Nor of Ekai Lersundi, of his family, of his surroundings, of Daniela, to whom we send a hug from this plenary. Nor of the thousands of children, children and trans people who suffer aggression and insults on a daily basis, because today is also the time to recognize that we could have accompanied them better and more effectively. Today is the day to redouble our commitment, because neither harassment, nor violence, nor misunderstanding, nor hatred, that have no place in institutions or in the streets. We live in this global state of doubt where rights and liberties cannot be regarded as certain. We can't forget to warn them of the crime of hate and the rising of the LGTBIbic attacks... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... ezin ditugu ahaztu cap delituen eta eraso LGTBifobikoen gorakadaz ohartarazten duten ahotsak. Ikusgune accounted for 14 attacks in three months last year. The trans collective majority. There is no doubt that progress has been made, that hate speech towards trans people has also increased. For these reasons, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have joined this signature, this proposed law that we are debating today, in a commitment to deepen and follow up on the historic change that we agreed on two years ago. We must think about the rights of all people: from the right to children to be heard, from the improvement of health care, from the educational, from the labour and cultural spheres, from social justice, to reduce the levels of social exclusion in a society that continues to reproduce stereotypes and prejudices associated with transsexuality. We protect this bill with our signature. Because we consider it necessary that more responsible societies should be shared in this discussion of the legislature, because they must also be social debates. And so we are doing in the State from the Ministry of Equality. This reform comes to Parliament driven by organizations of trans people and families of trans people. Like it couldn't be any other way. The advancement of rights has always come from the activism of LGBTI movements and organizations, and in this case from organizations activists for the rights of trans people. We defend that it is a right of citizens to participate with their voice, not only with their vote, in the definition of the public policies that affect them. We need to have the best possible text. From this collective point of view, we believe, LGTBI has a very close conflict with other struggles for freedom and equality, such as the struggle for feminism or anti-rationalism. We advocate policies that are deeply intersecting. Both the struggle for women's rights and those of the LGBTI communities share the same root. We reaffirm our commitment to the most vulnerable in the community: trans women. An object of an interested dispute that ignores the material reality of their lives, which includes high rates of unemployment, widespread precariousness, situations of extreme poverty and risk of social exclusion. We vote yes to reform, take it, forgive it. We voted yes to the consideration of this proposal for a law, because, as I said in the presentation, between the original adoption of this law and this second amendment we have seen a growing inclusion of the topic of transsexuality in the social agenda and political agendas. We will vote yes, because it allows us to start working to guarantee the full right of trans people. We vote yes, because we hope that it will contribute to overcoming social and institutional stereotypes. We vote yes, because it is done from a human rights perspective that is respectful of the people to whom the rule is addressed, and it is addressed from the point of view of recognizing the right to be everyone and ensuring that no one is discriminated against because he or she is who he or she is. But we also have challenges with this reform. We must be able in this parliamentary debate that goes beyond these walls, that fears and resistances are overcome, because the categories of men and women are already shown to be insufficient to contain diversity. We also have the challenge of addressing this debate from the fundamental respect for the human rights of trans people. We have the challenge of putting forward in this reform measures to transform the institutions and areas of exercise of rights today, but also of reparation and prevention. We have the challenge that this law permeates all administrative levels, and also in private areas. Think for a moment about the insecurity these people experience when they are visible in their workplace, for example. And lastly, we challenge to ensure that training and transfer rights may be specialised in the field of human rights. It's an inevitable challenge if we want the laws to make changes and we want the ignorance and transphobia of the organizations to disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u3	Thank you very much, President. Today we bring to this plenary the consideration of the proposed law of the second amendment of Law 14/2012, of 28 June, on non-discrimination of gender identity and recognition of the rights of transgender persons in our Basque Autonomous Community. A norm adopted nine years ago, which allowed us to move forward in the fight against the discrimination that transgender or transgender people may suffer because of their personal or social condition or circumstance, taking into account the specificities of this group, and which we modified in 2019 for the introduction of the depathologization of transgenderity. The work on this amendment began at the end of the previous parliamentary term in this House. After the beginning of the 12th legislature in the Basque Parliament at the end of 2020, in the last year, progress has been made in the preliminary draft law for effective real equality for trans people and for the guarantee of the rights of LGBTI people at the state level, reaching an agreement of the text of the preliminary draft between the Socialist Party and Elkarrekin We can in June 2021, and that will continue its processing to mark a common minimum norm that guarantees a real and effective protection in the different... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... and that it will continue its process to establish a common minimum standard guaranteeing real and effective protection in the different fields. That is why we are again taking up again this second amendment of Law 14/2012, in order to be able to introduce issues aimed at fully guaranteeing the right of transgender or transgender persons to receive from the public administrations comprehensive and adequate care both to their educational, health and legal needs and other needs on an equal basis with the rest of the citizenry, and progressing towards overcoming stereotypes that have a negative impact on the social and institutional perception of these persons. We therefore take one more step forward in a society based on the equal treatment and opportunities of transgender people, in addition to the acceptance of diversity within a more just and free society. A law that does not seek to recognize new rights, but to guarantee those already existing and recognized in article 14 of the Spanish Constitution. As we have seen in various speeches in this House, it is not only a matter of legal regulation, but also of ensuring compliance with the rules governing these rights. At Community level, equal treatment and non-discrimination are one of the basic and essential principles of the European Union, with multiple directives on this subject. The European Parliament has pointed out the need to identify the fight against all forms of discrimination against hatred and intolerance, and its Member States should identify their efforts to combat any form of discrimination and adopt legislation that effectively addresses cross-sectoral discrimination. That is why we are taking one more step in this Parliament today, and we are bringing the proposed law of the second amendment of the 2012 law, a law that seeks to respond to a specific regulatory need in order to create an effective instrument against discrimination that can be suffered by any person, and that addresses the different areas from which it can be produced, allowing for the necessary instruments to address discrimination against transgender persons in an effective and advanced way. It constitutes an amendment to all chapters of Law 14/2012 of 28 June. It recognizes the right of transgender minors to be heard in addition to ensuring the necessary care to promote the free development of their personality, guaranteeing their family and social integrity. It takes a number of measures to continue to make progress in both the field of work, education, culture, leisure and sport. On the other hand, progress is being made in the care of these persons who receive from the Basque Health Service in Osakidetza and the health benefits to which they are entitled. Another novelty is the transition from the specialized unit of care for transsexuality from the regulatory to the law. In addition, apart from changes to improve in the family, work, education, cultural, leisure and sport fields. It also takes measures to care for transgender victims of hate crimes in both the Autonomous Police and the Local Police in our Autonomous Community. Today we begin the steps to discuss this proposal of law, which has been the result of the work of a broad participatory process in the elaboration phase with organizations that defend the rights of trans people. This bill is presented by the groups: Basque Nationalists, the Socialist Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, and I hope it will have the support of the other groups in the House. And after consideration, today we will begin the process of amendments within Parliament itself, and within it we will try to seek as much consensus as possible in order to continue to take steps towards equal treatment and overcoming all forms of discrimination on the grounds of their personal or social condition or circumstance suffered by transgender persons in order to have an adequate legal framework for the prevention, care and elimination of all forms of discrimination. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u4	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u5	Mr. President, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. In 2012, Euskazai was the pioneer to start his own legislation on the rights of transsexuals for reasons of genus identity. In the first place, the law obtained a great deal of harmony from political groups as well as from social agents. In 2019, by the impulse of the agents to disaptologization and the right of deciding about self-consciousness, we accepted the first reform. And today, by the hands of the collective community of transsexuals and transgeneros, we present a deeper change of the law. In the legislature, to improve the conditions of life, and to respond to public institutions in an effective manner. We're here to keep the promise given by this legal proposal. It's the right way to keep the right word to the people and the transsexual Party, because it's the same thing to society, because it's the commitment to our election program in 2020, and we keep our word... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...to fulfill, even to society. Because they were commitments to our election program 2020, and we keep our word. The second course of our engagement to the government program 96, which we signed with the Socialist Party, is this: Trasexuals by their identity of genera and not neglecting their rights to promote the change of the 14/2012 law of June, 28 June, by the associations of transsexuals and transgenues, and by the agreements agreed with the families of minor transsexuals. So, as I said, we keep our word with the introduction of today. And, as has been promised, it is the text which we present with the associations of transsexuals and transgeneros, owing to a long discussion and discussion. That's why I want to be particularly grateful for our partnership with the Nazis and their representatives. Thank you for shaking us all these years. Thank you, too, for not only shaking us off, but for working with us and with you and me. We've been negotiating for hours, working in texts, sharing proposals, and work has produced fruit. So this is not a joke or two teams that support it, or the three teams that we sign the proposal. The bill's just about you, the legal team and the social operating team, all of you in common, in the neighborhood. The proposal for a law addresses relevant issues with a view to fully guaranteeing the right of transgender persons to receive comprehensive and adequate care from Basque public administrations for their educational, health, legal or labour needs. It also contributes to overcoming stereotypes that negatively affect the social and institutional perception of these people, establishing concrete measures to achieve a more just, free and equal society. The law reinforces and deepens the rights of transgender and transgender persons and the initiatives to be developed to make them effective. It is therefore a law that adds rights. In the health field, the standard provides for an extension of the portfolio of services in order to adapt to medical and scientific advances. It sets a period of six months for the implementation of primary care services, transsexuality and the specialized unit, which goes from statutory to statutory. The proposed law establishes at least one primary care service for transsexuality in each of the historical territories. The education system will develop non-discrimination protocols based on sexual or gender identity, and in those centres where transgender persons exist, the Department of Education will ensure the training of the entire educational community, including staff, teachers, administrative staff, families and students. The anti-discrimination plans will also reach the workplace, both public and private, where specific training of staff responsible for labour inspection and risk prevention will also be promoted. The new wording reflects the right of minors to be heard and to participate in medical decision-making. The proposed law also regulates measures in the family, culture, leisure and sport, or care in judicial and police units. A comprehensive reform, therefore, so that transsexuality can live naturally, without fear and in full freedom. It is a law, as I said, that adds rights, not against anyone, but in favour of people. There's nothing left, just go. It does not divide, despite what some people or collectives say, multiply. Against those who do not defend their own rights by denying those of others, against those who constitute identities about the denial of other identities, against those who want to confuse and hurt by mixing, for example, transsexual and unicorns, the proposal defends principles such as equal treatment and non-discrimination. Values such as diversity and respect ultimately defend human rights. This proposal for a law is also the result of the commitment. A political commitment first made to transgender and transgender people and their most representative associations. A political commitment expressed in the electoral and government programmes. A commitment to the defence of the rights of people, of all people, and to the value of diversity. A law that, like all the advances that have been made in the last decades in this area, is born out of the commitment of LGBTI individuals and organizations, which have removed obstacles and consciences, promoted legal and social changes, and remain a lever of change. I would therefore like to reiterate here today my appreciation and thanks to organisations such as Erespetuz and Naizen, which have sprung us to deal with these changes, but which have also worked with the Government and the parliamentary groups to get a good text that today begins its final parliamentary process once again, fortunately with very broad support. Thanks to people like Sarai Montes or Ares Piñeiro, from Errespetuz, for your willingness and collaboration. And especially I would like to highlight two people: Aingeru Mayor of Naizen, and Pepe Quintas, Deputy Health Councillor of the Basque Government, who have devoted hours of work, and above all, a lot of enthusiasm and affection so that today we can present this text to your consideration. A text that in such troubled times will be taken into consideration with a very majority support, and that will continue to keep our country, Euskadi, at the forefront of recognition of rights and gender-sensitive diversity. We're building the society we want with this proposal. The society which all men form, the society which respects the rights of all. Transsexuality is the reflection of human variety, and it is our duty to conclude with all the difficulties that hinder a decent life. It's the end way to build a decent society. Today, with the step we take, the road doesn't end, we have to work every day and everywhere. We will continue to construct a dignity, free, void of fear, and without stigmatized society. That's our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u6	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u7	Good morning, everyone. In front of a system that we're supposed to put into, it took a very important step in 2012 to face the discrimination of people in Euscal Autonomy in the Renaissance law. Until then, as the stars sing, new legislation was to be written on the covers... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... to prevent discrimination with an integral law. Until the time, as the stars say, they were obliged to write new laws on the surface. that they should at least read one's own rules and desires when they were stripped of them. In front of the patriarchal sex system he wanted sick and rejected, there was a legal step through the LGTB team and the feminist movement work. Its rights were identified, it was appointed, it was granted to those who were given legal and political confessions. But after ten years' journey, improvements, fictional inventions, and what was to come to pass, have come to view. The inevitable step in 2019. We accepted, unanimously, a change of depathologization and self-determination to the desktop. It's been three years, and as has been discussed, some groups have worked deeply until we could describe the text that is happening to us today. To acknowledge this work done, and to direct the reforms of the law, we think it necessary to acknowledge its foundation, or all the theoretical foundation. Our commitment to the Basque People is clear. And now, we're going to be working to open up the work of this text, which is to be presented today, for the sake of hearing and taking part in other departments that will offer its contributions and analysis. The law of 2012 was a little short, and this proposition comes to the details. It is plain, from years to time, that labor, the development of rights, have been marked in directions, and that this must be established by a legal frame. There are other ways which we believe may penetrate, and therefore from different points of view we shall expand the moment to hear those who will examine the law and improve it as far as possible. It's a suggestion that touches a lot of fields, that's because it's necessary, and we'll do it with that mime that needs it. No further steps, I'm para tomar implo. Now we must go forward, with a solid step, with light. And this reform proposal will give us a chance. As the office sings: "let them know that it is not all here, as the girls say. What is inside us is what makes us. Don't lose time, don't look at what you see. Let's break the schematics, prisons, and build the way to life-based projects." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In the opposite round, is anyone willing to join us? No? [[Pause]] Now that the dispute is over, it will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters,66; the contrary, 1. Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u9	So, it's accepted, consider the legal proposition. Going to the vote, Mists vote. Martíne, Mrs Martínnez of the Mistata-Vox team has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. For decades, the progressive consensus has promoted a radical individualism that drags us into a society of confrontations, which aims to divide the Spaniards into collectives. This vision has promoted a way of doing politics, to which the Nationalist Party also joins, based on diversity and confrontation between the Basques, and on fighting only for their own rights or related collectives. A way of doing politics that victimizes a part of society; it makes them different to then make them see that they need to be protected. Currently the gender ideology permeates all the policies of the Basque Country, and has been assumed by the entire parliamentary arch except Vox. From these limbs we come to this House today with a proposal for a law that denies biological reality and seeks to blur the concepts of men and women to replace them with new fictitious rights - such as the free self-determination of sexual or gender identity, both of adults and of minors. According to this concept, each person can choose his or her sexual identity at every moment, according to how he or she feels and regardless of categorization as a man or woman who was performed at birth in the care of his or her genitals, as the text points out. They therefore reject the fact that sex - male and female - is true, different and complementary. And they consider that the decisive thing is gender, a concept artificially invented to articulate all its ideology. So invented that the very proposition of law has to explain who are the object of this law; namely, transsexual and transgender people, which as pointed out in the text can be used as synonyms or not, totally surrealistic. As it is also proposed to develop for health professionals a specific guide for men with vulva and another for women with prostate. It has its logic, because this is not learned... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... as it is also proposed to develop for health professionals a specific area for men with vulva and another for women with prostate. It has its logic, because this is not learned in the medical career. This also wants to change this proposal with studies and research between the university and transgender associations. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment of the law adopted in 2012 is another step in the implementation of this vision of the person that progressiveism has built, formed on its ideological prejudices, its tailor-made social constructions and away from the reality of people, history and the most elementary sciences. They say they speak to protect a discriminated and stereotyped minority, even harassed, but at the same time they want to promote public campaigns to give them visibility. The reality is that they don't care about the people they're suffering. Moreover, what really matters to them is to continue to fatten up and deploy their chiringuitos and feed related groups. They do so by recognizing and accrediting associations and groups that promote the rights of transgender or transgender people, giving them priority, for example, in the management of services. Isn't this discriminating some Basques against others? In addition, this project recognizes gender self-determination for those aged 16 or over who are emancipated without parental consent. Something that Vox opposes at the front. Special mention deserves the provision concerning the care of transgender minors and how their decision will prevail over that of their legal representatives in certain cases. Considerations that have not taken into account neither the immaturity of children, aged 16 or older, nor the warning of many Spanish associations and doctors, such as the Unit of Transsexuality, Gender Identity of Malaga, which have warned that 85% of minors who report having a gender other than themselves end up changing their minds. Nor have they considered that the consequences of suppressing puberty with hormonal blockades in minors lead to a suicide rate in trans people of almost 40%. They also do not talk about equalizing rights and promoting equality. Have you considered the unequal conditions faced, for example, by a woman in a sporting competition against a man turned into a woman? Forced supremacy is not eliminated with hormonal treatments and sex changes. Is equality and non-discrimination promoted when the recruitment and employment of transgender persons in front of others is promoted? Even feminist collectives themselves are against these trans laws. We have seen them walk on the street denying such legislation, accusing them of ignoring and disregarding it, promoting laws against women and replacing the concept of sex with gender, further endangering their rights. It is what has created rights to the letter in service of political interests that then turn against. Ladies and gentlemen, being a woman is not a feeling, but a material reality. But don't be mistaken, they're not Vox's words, they're feminist collective words. The consequences of admitting this false right to self-determination are unpredictable. A desire or feeling does not change the biological reality or identity of the person. Or can one speak of self-perception of race, self-perception of nationality, self-perception of age? Ladies and gentlemen, when is an initiative that really defends the equality of all people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u11	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, chief of departments, members of the legislature. The People-Citizens Group has abstained from this amendment, the second amendment to Act No. 14/2012 of 28 June 2012 on non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity and recognition of the rights of transgender persons. We have to say, first of all, that it has surprised us that such a change has been dealt with through a proposal for a law put forward by the groups and not through a draft law, especially taking into account the great content of this initiative and the broad areas in which it affects. And it would have been desirable, in that sense, a bill because, as it is mandatory, a bill accompanies a series of reports and procedures that make the way to legislate, in our view, and I obviously believe that it is something objective, more secure. On the other hand, we also believe that it would have been desirable, or more advisable, rather, to have waited for the proceedings in the Congress of the Deputies of the specific law on this matter, which will have a basic character and, in this regard, may also have an impact on amendments that will now be adopted. We also believe that this is not a completely peaceful issue. There are discrepancies between various collectives and the Government itself, I say the Government in Madrid. And, in that sense, also because we believe that it is a matter that must be taken more calmly or that we have waited above all, as I said, for the concrete handling of the Congress of Deputies. The amendments made or envisaged in this proposal affect areas such as health, education, leisure, sport, security, among others. And, no doubt, many provisions also, although some, of course, involve major changes, as I said earlier, others at the same time represent a great novelty with regard to existing legislation, where the existing legislation is already clearly echoed by the constitutional principle of non-discrimination. We will not hinder this consideration because it is a consideration and that is why we abstained. But, since we would have seen much better that it had been treated as a bill, we also believe that it will be very interesting to have all the specific expertise and input you can say..., well, to point out the same on specific issues of the content of this initiative. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u13	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss the proceedings of the Presea, EH Collect, Basque Socilists, and together with the other proposition, as the parliamentary crew of Podemos-Nodemokers made, concerning the protection given to the law in the Biktime Act of the Basque Law. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos-Nozzer represent the Animal Group... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... concerning the protection given to the law of generation. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Hernández, who represents the Animal Party, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u14	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, congressmen. The GNP which we are going to defend the four signatory groups - the four main groups in this Parliament, and which I hope will be adopted unanimously by Parliament - is an obligation at the moment: the Congress of Deputies is asked to respect the text of the bill which this Parliament itself unanimously adopted, in addition, for the creation of the Compensation Fund for Victims of Amianto. It is not a question of telling Congress that the project that came out of this House is perfect and that it has no capacity for improvement through the amendments of the different groups in Congress. It is a question of telling those who, through their amendments, have already raised the total distortion of the initiative that came out of this House, excluding - if these amendments were to come forward - most of the workers affected by asbestos. Therefore, although the text contains in its literality a kind way to ask the Congress of Deputies to respect what has come out of this House, what I think we need to say clearly here is to ask it, to ask the Socialist Group in Congress to back off on those amendments. Because these are also amendments which involve a triple betrayal. I don't like to use the word treason very much, which I think is often used too lightly in politics, but I think it is a triple betrayal. Firstly, the Basque Parliament, which adopted this initiative unanimously and, of course, with the work and support of the Socialist Party itself in this House. Secondly, of course, a betrayal of the victims who have been working and asking for this fund of compensation without rest, and with whom the groups that today we signed this initiative and that we have that representation in Congress had committed ourselves, we have been promising for many years that this fund will see the light of day. And, thirdly, I believe that it is a self-treaty to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party itself, which had committed itself to the creation of that fund and had also committed itself to the victims. I remember perfectly when we came from this Parliament to the Congress of Deputies, with Mr Aiartza for the PNV - which I do not see now - Mrs Sánchez for the Socialist Party of Euskadi and Mrs White of EH Bildu, and myself for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. I remember perfectly the statements of the leaders of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, in particular I remember perfectly Mr Simancas - known to all of you - making sure to gloat at all the microphones of the radios, televisions and newspapers to make statements in favour of that fund, in favour of the content of the proposal coming from the Basque Parliament. And I therefore believe that the Socialist Party must rectify and I believe that what this Parliament says to it, reading between lines what the text's literality says, I believe that the message is very clear and must be very clear. It is a message to the Socialist Group in the Congress of Deputies: rectify, withdraw these amendments and respect what has come out of the House that the fund does not exclude the majority of workers, as would happen if the amendments they have tabled were adopted. Moreover, this tradition, as I said, if it is finally consumed, I think it is particularly serious. Because all of us, especially those who have been involved in this Parliament, who worked in the 10th Legislature in a paper, who were on this subject in the 10th Legislature, who were on this subject in the 11th Legislature, we know perfectly well the hard and long journey that the victims, the associations, the ASVIAMIE Association in Euskadi and also many trade unionists involved in this issue, the journey that has been going on during these years, where the initiative has had to start on more than one occasion because the legislature in Congress is over, in the face of the despair of these people. We therefore believe that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party should be asked to rectify it. We can read in the press that behind these amendments is the hand of Mr Escrivá, the Minister Escrivá. That there is, of course, constantly gaining enmity, not only from trade unions, but from different social groups. We, of course, give that maximum credibility. But it is the Socialist Group in Congress that has tabled these amendments. I therefore believe that we must ask the Socialist Group in Congress and the leadership of the Socialist Party to rectify this decision, the decision to table these amendments which will completely distort the compensation fund. It seems that lately the Socialist Party, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, is engaged in unilateral decisions - as in the case of the Sahara - not counting the political groups that we decided at the time to give a vote of confidence to Mr. Sánchez to be elected president of the Government, both of those who did so by generating that majority of investiture from outside the Government, and of those - like our coalition - that we decided to bet on a coalition government. And as with the position of the Sahara, it seems that with the Fund of Compensation of Victims of the Amianto the Socialist Party has taken a turn, in a way, incomprehensible; because, moreover, as the associations of asbestos victims themselves tell us, they had been working and talking with the socialist deputies in Congress until a few days before the amendments were tabled, and they had no news that the amendments were going to go... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... socialist deputies in Congress until a few days before the tabling of the amendments, and they had no news that the amendments would go in that direction. I think it is very important that this fund is already believed in this legislature, I think we all know that. The periplo that the victims have been passing, the legislature after the legislature, is already very long. They need that fund to be created, and they need that fund to be created in the initial conditions that came out of this Parliament, which were a conclusion of a work that was done before, and therefore cannot be distorted in that way. We, of course, ask the Socialist Party for a correction in this regard. I had to refer to the Socialist Party. We don't want to make blood out of this. I know perfectly well the situation of the Basque Socialist Party, the discontent I understand they have to have, because I know that Mrs Sánchez and other colleagues have worked hard on this issue and that they cannot be very happy with the position that the Socialist Party is taking in the Congress of Deputies. But that must be said, because it is those amendments that can undermine the objective of this important compensation fund for all these victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u15	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u16	Yeah. Thank you, President. As has already been pointed out on several occasions, it has already been three legislatures that the Basque Parliament decided to start this innovative and comprehensive work, and we drew up the final report of the presentation, and, subsequently, the draft law was drawn up, taking as a reference the French FIVA model, because we considered it to be the most complete model of the three existing ones, considering that this compensation fund should be national and, in no case, autonomous community. That is why we proposed its creation to the Congress of Deputies on two occasions, and the project we proposed to them was worked out and supported by all the groups represented in the House in the IX and in the X legislature, and this agreement, as we have already said, was unanimous. We made the first presentation to the Congress of Deputies on October 10, 2017 and, almost four years later, last year, on April 13, we again proposed it at the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies. And that day, on April 13, 2021, the law that we presented with the support of all groups in the Congress of Deputies, except Vox, was taken into consideration. In that presentation to Congress, I emphasized two things that we wanted the Congress of Deputies to take into account: the workers affected and those who could still be affected in the future, and the value of the agreement. And we're still defending him. My first reference was to those workers and their families, who have been calling for a solution that would avoid that judicial calvary that means having to lose a lot of effort throughout the judicial maze, and that even that battle must be followed by their relatives once they have died. And also the problem that this poses for companies that, after the passing of the years, have to deal with these compensations, and which also hinders the survival of many companies, fundamentally small, that cannot cope with these compensations when they arrive. This Parliament believes that its creation is necessary. And we want all the efforts made by the Basque Parliament not to be sterile. At the moment, the work on paper has already begun within the Congress of Deputies, and we hope that the law on the creation of the asbestos compensation fund will see the light as soon as possible. But the groups of the House - the Basque Nationalist Group, my own group, the Elkarrekin Podemos Group and the EH Bildu Group - considered it important to present this bill as a matter of urgency, so that the spirit of the proposal submitted by this House would not be lost in this process, that the text initially submitted should not be distorted by seeking the greatest possible consensus, and we have not hesitated at any time to support it. In addition, we consider it important, for that reason, that the Basque Parliament agree to refer this bill to Congress. And although this proposal has not been signed by the People's Party, we know that they are going to vote in favour, just as they did and were also supporting it from the beginning. The various groups have tabled amendments that will be discussed within the conference. I know that some amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Group which can distort the initiative put forward in this Parliament. And that is why from the very beginning my parliamentary group set out to work, so that the law will not be distorted. And we will continue to make every effort to do so within the paper work. As a result of this effort, we have already achieved an important commitment: that workers whose damage will result from work exposure will not be excluded, and that no requirement is required to qualify as beneficiaries, as was the case in the original proposal. This is a point and a commitment that has already been made since now. And we're going to work so that through the compromise amendments agreed between the different... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... is assumed from this moment on. And we are going to work to ensure that, through the compromise amendments agreed between the various parliamentary groups, it can be approved as soon as possible, once the work on paper is completed and subsequently approved at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, at last. This fund will provide equal compensation to all victims, which, if accepted, would mean, as is the case in other countries, renouncing ongoing legal proceedings. And, my speech on 13 April in the Congress of Deputies, I wanted to highlight the value of the agreement between different people to guarantee the rights of all. And I asked them to take into account the value of what we proposed from here. Let us, of course, work to ensure that this fund is a reality for my group, the Socialist Group, and that the victims finally get the compensation to which they are entitled. And that is why I believe that this initiative has great value, to which my group does not hesitate to join, as I said, because we believe that we must continue to support the initiative without distorting the text initially referred to. Logically, you will have to undergo variations, as is the case in any process of passing a law, but that does not greatly distort the original text. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u17	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u18	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. We're rushing forward this union, because it's really urgent. What's the big deal? Now, because we have seen the parliamentary groups, this legislature, that the agents, the victims of the amiantos, are about to throw down the fruit of our struggle and labour. In fact, we believe victims are not worth ten years' waiting and hope for nothing. During these years, I myself, like a lot of people here, have discussed the amianto, about the amianto, but it is fair to say that most of the − has said that we have agreed unanimously throughout. So, if I'm not mistaken, we've decided five times to accept this Chamber with one mouth, and we've made it twice in Congress. All this with the incomparable help of the victims and of the communion that stands for them; for thanks be to us again, and here we come. Of course, and after this explanation, it's the logical thing to think what the hell we're doing here. Well, it's not the fault. This plan has, in some measure, been useless, because election appointments have interrupted it more than once, but also the differences between political and veto, which have only been delayed by the production of this compensation. And today we see each other again on this one. Mr Hernández was talking about triple treason, because when we thought that for the seventh time this compensation fund would finally see the light, because of the unanimity that there was, for what was said in Madrid in its consideration, even more so when it also enjoyed 25 million euros budgeted and allocated for this year thanks to an amendment by EH Bildu, because we have, by surprise, found ourselves with the unexpected 180-degree turn that the PSOE has taken in Madrid. We have found that this parliamentary group, through the amendments presented to the paper, seeks to exclude from this compensation workers whose damage will result from work exposures. This makes no sense: a law is created for a compensation fund to compensate workers who have been exposed to asbestos and intend to leave these people out, right? It is logical to think, then, of who is intended to compensate. Well, it is intended to compensate victims who have been ill by environmental and family exposures, which are important, many of whom are also exclusively women who have been contaminated by washing their partners' work clothes for years. We have always argued that this compensation is of justice, but it does not have to be the only one, that one and the others. And besides, there is an addition; there is a condition to this. Because they seek to compensate these victims alone and exclusively, provided that they have recognised a permanent disability of at least 33 % and are not entitled to a pension or benefit. And thus interpreting the spirit of the law for EH Bildu represents a frontal attack on the proposal that we have adopted here unanimously to the law that has also been processed in Madrid twice, to the law that the socialist deputy this second time, María Guijarro, defended in a ferret manner on the day of its consideration on 13 April last year, eta, dirudienez, orin, PSOEren aburuz, funts horrek oso konpentsazio zabala supposatzen du. Eta henera, euren boreuz, ba, Gizarte Segurantzak eta laneko arriskuen prebentzioa, dagoeneko, langileak babesten dituzte. It cannot be forgotten that the chief object of this compensation is this: that the families, or workers, who cannot be prosecuted by judicial means, may claim compensation... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... and the other: for example, because the families, or workers, who cannot follow the judicial method, have no company to claim compensation, to see the injury concluded. In the case of the amianto, it's often hard not to identify the company because many have disappeared. And when they get it, what about the financial and emotional cost that came from the trial? What happens when the company's gone? What about widows? Shouldn't they be ignored? In order to give a data, for the last 20 years, the score of 900 people died in South Basque Country, not to speak of assostososis or vicera cases derived from the influence of the amianto. Well, this is what we're talking about. It's serious. And speaking of the long judicial battles that workers and their families have to face and cover, we share what the spokesman for the PSOE said in Madrid in the consideration of this law. Mr Hernández referred to the first consideration, but there have been two. And in this case he said: "We owe it to all those workers, yes, who have left their lives or who live with Damocles' sword over them and do not have to endure this judicial calvary that has already been spoken of here. They often end up with a sentence when the complainant is already deceased." Therefore we do not understand it, we do not understand it from PSOE's side, and hope that by this proposition of the other law we do not accept those corrections in the power of Madrid, or that PSOE withdraws from us, because we see no other way, because we understand no other stage than that. And we must confess today that we have a bitter feeling in this attic. A feeling very full, because it has been very easy to get once more the agreement of a mouth in this subject; for despite all the objections and changes of the government of Madrid, the position of all the groups remains equal, and that is grateful. But it's very sour, because this situation is delaying us again, because the victims and their families have been painfully tense and worried, and because I don't know what the next maneuver can be right now. Today we ask only to respect the spirit of the law, to consider all the victims received in the text, because there is no first and second-rate victim. And when I consider the law, I'll end up with the same words that I ended. But before that, I'd like to thank you again for the attitude of grouping parties that made the proposal, because again it's been an easy job. Jon, Gloria, Love and thank you, too, Carmelo. And as I said, I'll end up like Madrid, I said, and I'll say to you today: We can't accept a new delay on this subject. This delay would not be understood, and it would not be right for society in general, but especially for all the victims of the amianto, for those who are to come, and for all those who were left in the way. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning. To all good mornings and to the congregation of the victims of the amianto. To be here with us today. Well, they have a great deal of agreement in a discussion, and we all understand that this initiative is urgent at a moment when we speak the last... the difficulty of taking speech (... ? ), above all, because those who have spoken before me have spoken plainly what is the end of this enterprise. As it said it was the last one in a debate in which unanimity prevails and in which we all assume urgency because it has its difficulties, because I run the risk of repeating what those who have already said to me and have already made it clear, and that it is not another message that we have been constantly transferring to the Congress of Deputies since 2015: Justice and reparation for all those people who have been working for years in contact with asbestos. Many have died, others have had painful judicial battles, others have trusted that our action would have results and finally be compensated. Most of them are disappointed and desperate for the delays and postponements that this initiative has suffered, and that pain and frustration is easily understandable. Seven years ago, this legislature asked the Spanish Government to make a project like France, Italy, or Belgium, which existed in such a country. When we saw that he was on his way, well, we decided to do their job. A proposition which has hitherto been made, as has been stated, to have been made, in the April of 2021, last year, by a decree of this legislature in Congress for the compensation of the victims, who have defended us in the Congress of the Congress, and also in order to repay us for responsibility and sensiveness. We're too late, we're too late, but we still have the same strength and determination to demand that the Congress of Deputies no longer dilate this... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... we are very late, but we continue to have the same strength and determination to demand once again that the Congress of Deputies not further delay this work and not distort the spirit and content of the initiative of this institution. And that is what we are asking today with this non-law proposal by the groups that have subscribed to it. The victims need answers now, they're being helped by reason. We cannot let them down again, because what we demand is simply justice, protection and recognition. In all these years we have been able to safeguard the unity with which we have dealt with this issue here in the Basque Parliament. A unity that makes us strong and gives us a leftover legitimacy to ask, as we have in our proposal, that the work of Congress preserve this consensus, and preserve, above all, our proposal. We owe it to the thousands of people who have suffered and suffer the physical and moral consequences of their exposure to this carcinogen. We can't use maneuvers, we'll just get them to feel cheated again. We must act responsibly and honestly. We can't look the other way. The victims and their families have been alone for many years fighting against companies that in most cases have already disappeared, and if they have not, they have rejected their responsibility. Basque, unions, sick people and their families have been an example of struggle and firmness. He was born here in Euskadin, one of the first organizations of American amianto's victims, from whom we have reached our present point. Our proposal is already in Congress, but our work is not over, and we owe to them the agreement obtained in the legislature to respect Congress of the Congress of Congress, which is what we are asking for today. The adoption of a compensation fund for all victims is nothing but justice. We ask, please, that there be no temptation to lower our proposal. Let's not add any more pain to these stories, nor let's pass the ball on to others. The party is playing in Congress, and that is where it must be resolved now, and finally the great step that is missing: recognition and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u22	Thank you, President, good morning, also shortly to say that my group, the People-Citizens Group, will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal that is being tabled. I join in much, most of the considerations that have been made by the interveners in relation to the presentation of this bill. My group is also very concerned about the situation on the initiative of the Basque Parliament before the General Courts on the adoption of a law establishing a compensation fund for asbestos victims, also known as asbestos, which is currently being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, is very concerned. My group has always worked constructively on this situation which affects and has affected thousands of citizens who in their working and family lives were in contact with this product which was later discovered to be so dangerous, with this mineral used in construction, in certain insulating suits, and that so many victims have caused in the world and continue to cause. We have always understood that this fund had to be created. And before, in the considerations and in the work of the Basque Parliament, and now in the Congress of Deputies, we work to ensure that people affected by asbestos are given their rights of compensation, their rights of compensation. We have always wanted to push forward this new law with the Association of Affectados por el Amianto, and now also in Congress we are working with our constructive amendments with a view to the definitive creation of this compensation fund for all of Spain. Here we did it and we worked with Mrs López de Ocariz in the previous legislatures, in Madrid we are doing it now with Mrs De Luna and Mr Romero. Well, and in that regard, we have put forward a number of constructive amendments that we hope will be adopted as soon as possible, or at least definitively debated as soon as possible. We already know that it is a matter that could well be considered throughout the European Union that there could be a European fund, but, well, today we have to talk about Spain, and this initiative must, of course, materialize in Spain. We are concerned, as I said at the beginning, by the restrictive position in parliamentary work in Congress, by the reluctance, by the position of the Ministry of Labour or Mr Escribá. We do not know very well, but let us hope that they are unlocked, that they realize reality and needs. Someone will probably have to convince you, Mrs. Mendia. Spain does not have a compensation fund, as do other countries, such as France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the situation has to be fixed. As was also stated in the statement of reasons for the parliamentary initiative before the General Courts, the compensation fund will ensure that those affected families or workers and affected workers who are barred from legal proceedings for not having a company to claim compensation, are compensated for the damage. I think it is an illustrative enough paragraph to think and decide that we must act urgently on this issue of workers, or of people, or of family members of workers who have no way out, who have no other chance of claiming more than in relation to what we can do and what we are trying to push in institutions, in this case, through a law. That is why we share the view that the Basque Parliament is asking the Congress of Deputies to respect the spirit of the proposal submitted and that the rule finally adopted does not distort the original text. That is very important, because we are seeing the risks of that happening, seeking as much consensus as possible in order to achieve the prompt reparation of the victims and their families. That was the purpose, the work that we did in this Parliament, and that today it has to end the Congress of Deputies without reticence and with a spirit, of course, different to that which we are seeing... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... which we did in this Parliament, and which today has to end the Congress of Deputies without reticence and with a spirit, of course, different from that which we are seeing that some today can approach the issue. Let us hope that this initiative that we are presenting today in the Basque Parliament will serve as a reminder and pressure to those who have such reluctance in the Congress of Deputies, but also the pressure that can be put by Mrs Vice-Lehendakari and the Counsellor of Labour and Employment to the Ministry and to the Minister, to unblock the situation of this complicated stork that has the approval of the law by the ministerial position. My group here and in Congress is for the approval of the fund in the keys that the Basque initiative has manifested, the initiative of this Basque Parliament, with some constructive amendments, some style or declaration, but in the sense that this fund is created this same political exercise without further delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u23	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. We're going to the answers turn, together, Podemos, right? Anyone else? Ipiñazar? Sánchez? We'll end our discussion, we'll vote with the E.R.A.R.R.R.R., the Basque Sociists, and together the original text of our proposition as well as that of the Polydemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters of 71; contraries, 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u24	So the original text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group, the young ones as to the integration of the production network. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gil is a representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The last Sociometer presented by the Basque Government has again shown that employment-related problems accumulate the greatest concerns of Basque citizens; well above the covid pandemic or the conflicts of Basque politics, which occupy the second and third points. And the same report shows that the concern for employment problems is almost 20 points higher than the concern for the same subject in the rest of Spain. We therefore believe that labour market problems should also take up most of the time in this House and, consequently, the largest number of initiatives put forward. But just take a look at the numbers to make sure we're pretty far away from that. And this lack of harmony, among other things, explains very well why we politicians are the third concern of our citizens. That is why today we are bringing to debate a proposal that seeks to focus on the serious problem that our young people have in finding work. Because of all the employment problems we have in Euskadi, we should be particularly concerned about youth unemployment, its high incidence and its consequences. According to recent data from Eurostat, unemployment among people between 16 and 29 years of age is 17.9, 18%, compared to 10.3 of the general population. And the problem is particularly acute in Gipuzkoa, where this rate reaches the scandalous figure of 19.4%, almost 20%. That is to say, almost 20,000 young Basques at the end of their studies find a job market with doors closed for them. We can say that there is a sort of barrier between the academic system and the labour system that makes entry into it difficult for many of our young people. According to the Young Business Talent report, the future of work is a concern of almost 50% of young Basques, and 84.5% of them say that they would be willing to leave Euskadi if necessary to find work. This data seems pretty chilly to me. Moreover, if we talk about the quality of work, Euskadi has led the rate of temporaryity in young employment in Europe: 62% compared to 33.1% in the Community. Part-time contracts are record-breaking in the latest study carried out in 2020. It gives the figure of 32.5% compared to 25.2% of the state average and 22.2 of the European Union average. In the meantime... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... gives the figure of 32.5% compared to 25.2% of the state average and 22.2 of the European Union average. In the meantime, and paradoxically, 80% of Basque companies claim to have difficulties in hiring the desired profiles despite the high demand for employment, which shows the lack of alignment between supply and demand. And this happens to our young people at a time of their lives when they need to be independent, put into practice everything they have learned and start an adult life project with prospects for the future. It is a time when they are checking for what all the efforts during the years of study have served, when they are full of energy and eager to do things. And at that very special moment they find themselves with the rejection of the labour market. And it is true that the youth unemployment rate has dropped somewhat in the last quarter of last year, but it still has unacceptable levels. I do not think I welcome the fact that we are cultivating the self-congratulation of the Government by insisting that the rate has fallen when we have the levels we have, which should make any government blush. The problem of youth unemployment is their problem to which we should pay more attention, among other things, because our young people are the future of Euskadi. And many of them are being pushed to leave so that a future can be built. They are the same ones in which we have invested the largest amount of money per pupil in all the autonomous communities, the same ones that will have to pay our pensions in the future and the same ones that, irreparably, will replace us here some day. And in the face of this problem, what is the Basque Government doing? In view of the results, little. Insufficient would be the note. It's not that I'm not doing anything, they do the same thing with the rest of the topics: doing what they do. They make plans that then evaluate us because they fear that they will produce results of execution that they do not want to show. They acquire commitments and set targets on the role, which all bears, in the hope that the global economy and the autonomous behaviour of companies will then allow them to celebrate their fulfilment and boast of it, and, if the objectives are not met, nothing happens, we move on and simply stop mentioning them. It also develops instruments that cost money to all Basques, but do not translate into effective results. It sets up structures and chiringuitos with which to continue strengthening the client network that so good electoral results give them. They distribute subsidies to feed and retain the network and increase public employment, of course only if they speak Basque. Until we get as many Basques as possible to live in government bars. Here, too, the myth of the good management of the Basque Government is false. Well, let me get this straight. You do a magnificent management, but for your partisan interests, not for the Basque citizens. Or yes, but only for some, more specifically for their own. And it is that in order to be able to address such a complex issue as this one must begin... We should start by getting a good diagnosis, which we don't have. What are the causes of youth unemployment in Euskadi? While the Government is encouraged to really face this issue and make a rigorous diagnosis, I repeat, even though the results of this are not suitable for it, I will offer some ideas endorsed by the main studies on this matter. And I'm going to score five. The important correlation between youth unemployment and the shortcomings of the education system. It is obvious that an educational system that does not get students out of school with the right levels in such important subjects as reading comprehension, mathematics or language is an inconvenience for these same students when finding work, especially in a labour market such as the current one that requires ever higher levels of qualification and specialization. But the effect of the shortcomings of the education system on youth employment has not only to do with the quality of education, but also with its adjustment to the labour market. If the qualifications studied are not those demanded by the labour market, the inevitable result is greater youth unemployment. Second, poor mechanisms for obtaining experience. All those who have lived closely the peripetics of young people to find their first job have heard the same complaint: in all jobs they ask for the experience but do not give them the opportunity to get it. And it is true that most jobs require a certain degree of experience and that, therefore, our young people cannot access them in a first job. Someone may think this is irreparable. But it doesn't have to be that way, we can incorporate in the training programmes a module of practices that will explain this situation. Thirdly, unemployment figures are also shown to be not working properly, although in reality we could say that they simply do not exist or that they do not exist in a very small way. Educational guidance systems in education are aimed at recommending to pupils a formative or other itinerary. But when they find themselves in the thesis of having to look for a job they find that they lack the basic information about the functioning of the market, the skills and knowledge demanded by the different companies, the tasks and responsibilities of each job in the different sectors, the dynamics of the sectors and even the exits and job options that they can find in each of the academic degrees. Their baggage in most cases is very poor: family recommendations, the experience of other young people, a test that they had at school at an age too early and with very questionable validity and reliability. And with those resources, little and bad, they must face one of the most important decisions of their life, which is to choose their profession. That is why it is not surprising that the data show not only that young people take too long to find employment, with the frustration that this generates, but that a large number of them when they get a first job return in a short period of time to unemployment, because they are not prepared for that job, because they do not like that job or because it is simply a job without prospects for the future. Poor or no work orientation is at the root of these problems, among other things. Fourth causes youth unemployment: low, very low culture of entrepreneurship. All the studies show that. Most of our young people do not want to risk setting up a business project, prefer that the risks be borne by others and give them safe work, prefer to ask for work rather than offer it to others. And this happens not only because we are creating a culture of risk aversion, but also because corporate failure continues to be too expensive in Euskadi, sometimes with economic consequences for life. Because our young people do not feel that they have the training, the contacts, the experience, the help enough, that is the resources, to set up a business project and because the incentives they have to do so are too weak. And so we have that not only do most of our young people not go through their heads to set up a company capable of generating wealth and employment, and they dream of finding a job, as we say here, of high quality, but that the most eager destination is to be civil servants... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... a company capable of generating wealth and employment, and they dream of finding a job, as we say here, of high quality, but the most eager destination is to be civil servants and obtain a place for life in which their performance is never evaluated safe from the vavenes of the economy, and with unbeatable conditions. Because they're paid by the rest of the citizens. Being an official is at the opposite end of the culture of entrepreneurship, which does not mean that they do an excellent job. The last factor that explains the high numbers of youth employment we have is the cost of work and the rigidity of the labour market. We've all managed to get someone to come out pretty clear. We have put the costs of social security, training, security and tax distribution, among others, on the backs of employment. About 30 per cent - as you know - of the business cost of a job is not taken by the worker, but by the Government. With which the employer costs a lot, and the worker pays little. And so we have that the labour cost is the highest expenditure item for most companies; and that they try not only to reduce it, but at least to manage it with exquisite zeal, among other things, for its impact on the survival of the company itself. And here the most harmed are our young people. And if we add to this the rigidity of the labour market that makes it difficult for young people to leave and enter, we have practically the perfect storm. That explains, in part, why we have the youth unemployment figures we have. And so far the diagnosis that I insist on, we recommend to the government that it do so more objectively, deeply and adapted to our reality than I have done in the short time that I have. But this is not an irreparable situation on which nothing can be done. In order to be constructive, we put on the table a panel of ten concrete measures derived from the previous diagnosis, which should address the Government's priorities in this area. Although I'm not sure he's very interested. Some of them have been included in this initiative, which is only intended to be an introduction to a series of debates that we will be bringing to this House in the coming months. Because we think that an effort should be made to devote our time and energy to the main problem that concerns the chiefs, who are the citizens. That is, the labour market. There are ten measures and lines of action, ten proposals, which we are going to mention and explain briefly because we do not have much time. First, it is essential to correct the shortcomings of the education system. The new education law should serve to correct this situation in which pupils with low levels in subjects such as mathematics, language sciences or languages are being seen. This implies prioritizing education in the mother tongue, improving the level of teachers, avoiding segregation, improving teaching methodologies and rewarding excellence. I'm not very optimistic about this today. Second, to improve the systems of work guidance. Generalize vocational training guidance - which is not generalised - and incorporate the employment guidance system into all finalist studies, including university studies. In addition to a thorough reform of the employment guidance systems in Lanbide. Third step, select Lanbide's most effective training actions. Because there are some that are having a lot of impact on the ability of young people to enter the labour market, and others that are not. What we propose is that this be studied, prioritized, selected, so that we give priority to those who are most effective in view of the ultimate objective. Fourthly, adjust the educational supply to the demand of the current labour market, promoting new FP degrees that are the ones demanded by companies, as well as university women; and empowering those who have greater employment integration. This may be thought to be done by the market alone, but it is not. Fifth, boost the dual FP. We're on our way, but it takes a qualitative leap. More powerful structures must be created in relation to enterprises, monitoring pupils, visibility of opportunities and recruitment. Sixth, to implement compulsory practice programmes in the vast majority of university degrees. Because it's the way students get out with contacts and experience in their resume. Seven, promote a true culture of deep and extended entrepreneurship, allowing students to really consider setting up a business project as a way out of work. But of course, having the necessary resources and the necessary support. Eight, help the new self-employed with the Social Security quota, studying systems to facilitate payment of the quota - at least for the first two years for the young self-employed. Nine reduce the cost of the job load that workers and companies have for the recruitment of young people And ten implant Training checks. A measure that is functioning in many places, so that unemployed young people can renew their work orientation or specialize in centres of their choice. There are ten ideas, but there are many more things that can be done if we take this problem so seriously that it affects Basque families. We encourage the Government to put on the batteries, to take the bull by the horns, and to demonstrate to society that its problem is also ours, and that the institutions serve more than to respond to the agendas of political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u26	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams that've been running the corrections. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin without warm cloths referring to the last of the measures I have spoken of; for the rest as you have already announced you will bring, for we will already have the opportunity to speak. It speaks of a training check, which is not one of the tools for which the Basque Government has put its money in this area. And not really any of the autonomous communities in our environment do either. And with this premise I could have chosen to come here and try to discredit your proposal. But Mr. Gil, maybe I'll surprise you today. Because even if we are not talking about an instrument that is currently the object of evaluation, you will not find a position that is completely contrary to the tool that you pose to us; that as such, it does not cease to be another tool. Indeed, training checks are a tool used in some countries in our environment with better or worse results, we must also say so. But always together with other public policies to promote training and employment, and of course to control from the public the training competence of the centres. The problem comes from the approach of the premise from which you start. On many occasions, and I have heard him in this very rostrum, admonish those who conceive of the private as an enemy to slaughter. However, it seems today that we have come to the same point, but in reverse. I mean, we leave individuals and companies to manage as they please, something I can't object to, because you don't hide that it's liberal. Although it introduces an element that distorts us... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... we leave individuals and companies to manage as they please, something that I cannot object to, because you do not hide that it is liberal, although it introduces an element that distorts its coherence, that it is the public that pays the bill without asking any more questions. And, as you will understand, we cannot share that. Nor do we share another of the premises that you wanted to put forward in presenting this initiative, when you claim a supposed waste of public resources in the youth employment promotion policies that you come to deny any positive effects that will contribute to a significant reduction in youth unemployment. And that's just not the case. As you all know, the economic and social recovery after the pandemic has been a premise on which the Socialists and this government have been constantly working. It is not surprising that this Basque Government was formed at a time when the figures demonstrated the imperative need to continue to take measures to prevent the economic consequences of the pandemic from drowning our expectations for the future as a society. And we put our emphasis on the protection of the most vulnerable, including young people. From the public point of view, from this Government, we deploy concrete measures to address this situation, including initiatives aimed primarily at facilitating access for young people to a job opportunity, combining employment promotion and training programmes, including support for recruitment, young entrepreneurship, a first experience of transition from education to work - the Lehen Aukera programme - or fellowships for the acquisition of practical experience, as well as the promotion of the dual training model and other employment training actions for young people. Measures to which the initiatives for youth inclusion supported by European funds are now also added. Yes, those that your comrades in the People's Party, Mr. Gil, with Mrs. Ayuso at the head, wanted to charge by denouncing them to the courts. As well as the Reactivate programme - the first professional experience programme in public administrations - the Investigo programme - for the recruitment of young people with a research profile and R & D & I in areas such as health, data engineering, the green economy - or the development of the pilot project for the rebalancing and equity of young people and young people in collaboration with the State Employment Service. But all these actions are linked to many other actions of a general employment recovery policy led by the department leading the vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia, and the truth is that they are bearing fruit. As you know, the National Statistical Institute confirmed, in January, the good health of the Basque labour market, closing 2021 with an unemployment rate of 8.43, the lowest in the whole State, and five points below the average. We are therefore at the lowest unemployment rate since 2008, i.e. since the previous crisis. And that came from the very serious consequences of a pandemic that had blown it all up. And if we focus on youth unemployment, we can also see some data. For example, with regard to unemployment, according to Eurostat's PRA, the youth unemployment rate has fallen by 3.1 points since the beginning of the health crisis, from 20.3 in the first quarter of 2020 to 17.2 in the last quarter of 2021. In the first quarter of 2021, the youth unemployment rate was 20.2, 3.2 points higher than the current rate. With regard to occupation, the youth employment rate is 1.4 points higher than that recorded before the onset of the crisis: 40.4 against 39. Compared to the first quarter of 2021 it has increased by 3.2 points. In other words, the evolution of young people in employment has been favourable with regard to the onset of the crisis. There are currently 9,500 more employed young people, an 8.7% increase. With regard to the worst health situation in the first quarter of 2021, the number of young people in employment increased by 13,500, or 12.9% more. With regard to activity, the number of young people working has increased by 6,000 since the beginning of the health crisis, 4.5% increasing. And for the first quarter of 2021, there are 11,500 more people, or 8.7% more. Therefore, something, at least something, Mr Gil, will be done well if youth unemployment falls and if the youth employment rate and the number of young active people rises in this way. Although I said which I'll tell you, of course, it's not all done. Our goal is to reduce youth unemployment much more. And in that we are, and that is why we will continue to implement measures. But, as I have heard on many occasions, this is not simply a quantitative question. Our aim is not to create jobs at all costs, but to create quality jobs, with decent rights and wages, something which is particularly relevant in the case of youth employment. And the truth is that until recently the job creation scenario was in the context of the Labour Reform of the People's Party, which greatly impeded this objective, as pointed out in the Basque Employment Strategy 2030. The Government of Spain, led by President Pedro Sánchez, has always been aware of the need to take measures to end job insecurity. The rise of the SMI and the new labour reform agreed by employers and trade unions have been an important turning point that allows us to be optimistic about the achievement of the objective that we have set ourselves. In this respect, I believe it is important to stress that, last February, the percentage of indefinite contracts has risen to 16% for the total population. This improvement in the quality of recruitment also affects those under the age of 30, with 14.2% of undefined recruitment. In short, the Basque Socialists are aligned with the aim of reducing youth unemployment and getting young people to gain access to jobs not of any kind, but of quality. Since the beginning of this Government, with the worst possible data from a pandemic, we have taken action from the Department of Labour and Employment, with concrete measures to recover the lost jobs. Today the data support our work, closing 2021 with an unemployment rate of 8.43%, the lowest in the whole state and five points below the average. The lowest unemployment rate since the previous crisis in 2018, since 2008, and decreasing the youth unemployment rate by 3.1 points since the beginning of the health crisis. But, I told you, the Socialists don't settle. We want to further reduce unemployment, and we want the jobs that are created to be of quality. The new labour reform that many criticized has triggered the percentage of indefinite contracts in Euskadi at 16%, 14.2 in the case of children under 30 years of age. All these measures, together with the progressive increase of the SMI, are tools that are yielding good results and that socialists will continue to implement... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...under the age of 30. All these measures, together with the progressive increase in the SMI, are tools that are working well and that the Socialists will continue to implement. Because it is not that young people should have a guaranteed future, but that they deserve to live this present. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u29	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Let's go back. Today we come to the debate on the non-legislative proposal on the integration of young people into the productive fabric... I would say the young people; the precision of gender language I already do. That is the title of the initiative. But if we read their justification we realize that we are talking again about the youth unemployment rate; that is the justification. But then, in the speech he has put into the law of education, entrepreneurship, presents us ten measures that some of them are state competence... In total, a small amount of data used to say in the end, as the holder, that the Basque Government spends huge amounts of public money on plans that do not yield favorable results. The conclusion is that for you. You speak in the justification of the 4th Youth Plan of the Basque Government, launched in 2020, that its funding amounts to 411 million for the employment of young people and the promotion of employment. And from this comes his claim that huge amounts of money are being spent that do not seem to have had any significant effect on the reduction of youth unemployment in Euskadi. Well, well, let's focus on the data. The youth unemployment rate in the last quarter of 2020, the year in which the 4th Youth Plan is launched, according to data from the Basque Youth Observatory, was 22.3%; by the end of 2020. If we go to the last quarter of 2021, just one year later, youth unemployment rate: 17.1; that is, 5 points less. For not having yielded favorable results, well, of entry, seems to me a quite considerable decrease. He later spoke of a lack of action that would contribute to significantly reducing youth unemployment and the integration of young people into the labour market. I do not think that precisely this government is suspected of sparing in actions, precisely regarding the boost of employment for young people, quality and not precarious employment; Mr Rico has already explained this to you, and I will not repeat myself. It is one of the three basic principles of the government programme, setting as objectives the maintenance of jobs, the fight against precariousness and temporaryity from a gender perspective also, together with economic revival, to place the unemployment rate again below 10%. By the way, the last figure on the unemployment rate we have, a month ago, is 9.9%, when we have not yet reached the equator of this legislature. With which, does it still seem to you that huge amounts of money are spent for nothing, so that they don't throw anything away? That is why, beyond being able to put objective data on the table, we wanted to put into our amendment the need for the Basque Government to continue to contribute actively to promoting quality employment, and to continue to develop the instruments available to public administrations: coordination and development are commitments – indeed – acquired by this House. At the moment, as Mr Rico has said, we are better off than in the pre-pandemic situation with regard to youth employment, apart from the drop in the unemployment rate I have already mentioned. The number of indefinite contracts for persons under the age of 30 has increased by 6.5 compared to February 2020, just the pre-pandemic month, let's say, and in turn has also increased the number of persons hired by 9.39%. So, honestly, I don't understand what this non-law proposition is about today; I really don't understand it. I think it is more than obvious that we are faced with an undoubted commitment from the Basque Government, and it seems to me that there is no doubt in the light of the data I have tried to put forward. Employment and quality employment policies are under way, and they are bearing fruit, and I believe they are in sight. However, in the amendment we tabled with the Socialist Party, we bet on the need to boost quality employment, urging all institutions to continue to develop the instruments they have for the coordinated development of employment policies, linking them to promote quality employment and reduce job insecurity in young people. In addition, in our amendment we support the strengthening of the training and recruitment of young people, supported by European funds, specifically in the areas of youth guarantee, research and first experience in public administrations, which, by the way, through Lanbide and in collaboration with the Foreign Ministers, I am aware - and I know firsthand - that they are already in place and that they are already giving young people opportunities or a first experience in working in public administrations. Finally, we also call for the Lehen Aukera programme to be strengthened, as Mr Rico has said, as shown in the conclusions of the evaluation report... because it is evaluated; that you have said that there are reports, reports, and they are not evaluated. If it's evaluated... The evaluation report of the program, which ISEAK has conducted, says that the Lehen Aukera program shows evidence that it increases the employability and working time of those who have participated in previous calls; as in dual training, which gives very successful data. But, even though there is always room for improvement, we call for this project to be maintained and for the need to strengthen it to be valued. With this - I say again - I do not understand what the aim of this initiative was. I understand that everyone has their parish, right?, and that your parish has to explain that you bring initiatives here to support youth employment. But what I don't consider fair is that having the data that shows a... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... that you bring in initiatives to support youth employment. But what I do not think is fair is that with the data showing an improvement in the youth unemployment rate, and that it is clear that we are not saying that we are complying, because that is why we recorded the amendment, even though we knew that the development of the youth employment programmes launched by the Basque Government was favourable, yet we wanted to push them forward through our amendment. So, on our side, we're gonna continue to protect jobs policies that start from the Basque Games, and at least we won't get in the way. All the facts I have mentioned show that we are gradually better off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. At the time of the teams who have not issued any correction, Mistata-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I will start with objective data, and ranking the main concerns of the Spanish youth. Firstly, access to the labour market; secondly, the quality of employment. This is reflected in a report prepared by the ESIC University, and coordinated with doctors in sociology, among young Spaniards aged between 16 and 34 living in 51 municipalities in rural and urban areas. By focusing more closely on the field of study, we focus on the Basque Autonomous Community, and we note that the concerns of young Basques are the same. According to the Basque Sociometer, the main concern of our young people between the ages of 18 and 29 is both not finding a job and the fear of losing it. It is also the case of those in the fork between the ages of 30 and 45. The problem of youth unemployment comes from a long way, but the pandemic has certainly aggravated it. The past year has awakened the insecurities and fears of the younger ones. It has made a radical change, and the consequence is an increase in pessimism among the younger ones, who have doubts as to whether they can easily find a job when they finish their studies, due to the situation we are living in. Moreover, the slap of raw reality begins before: our young people are already discouraged in the last years of their formation, in the face of the uncertain future that is coming to them. Some clouds that lead many to think as they study to leave our community, even outside Spain, in search of a job opportunity with which to be independent and start their life project. And it's no less. Without boring them with data, the fact is that the Basque Country closed the year 2021 with a youth unemployment rate of 17.9%, 7 points higher than the rate of the general population. A percentage which in the case of the fourth quarter amounted to 27,4 %. That is the raw reality faced by many of our young people today, those who have finished their studies and do not find their first job, and those in full training are already pessimistic about their future work. They will agree with us that it is especially sad that this is happening to a generation that is much better prepared than their parents, and that could also give brilliant professionals, as they will also agree that measures are needed to integrate young people into the labour market. Measures that translate into tangible employment opportunities. While it is true that initiatives have been taken in this regard, we will not deny it, they have not yielded the expected results. Already in 2020, Berpiztu, a five-year programme with which the Basque Government sought to revive the economy and employment until 2024, was presented. Then EUR 18 million was invested to create 25,800 jobs for young people, as the document prayed. What was the result: only 4,163 jobs, 87% of them temporary, and 53 part-time. The story is repeated in 2021. Last year 30 million euros were invested to create just over 4,300 jobs, and with the same percentages of temporality and partiality. It is clear that something is failing, it is more than obvious that this investment has not had a direct impact on the youth unemployment rate or on better conditions of recruitment. They know the diagnosis, we've seen it, but the treatment has failed, and they still don't create stable, durable and quality jobs. That is not the way to cure this endemic evil that we suffer, we believe that a new recipe is necessary. In Vox we know that much more can be done to put an end to this scourge that is diminishing the hopeful future that our young people deserve. Young people capable, prepared more than ever, who know that nowadays it is not only worth a university career or a vocational training, because the competition is very high. "They always ask you for the career and something else" – it's common to listen to them – but they strive and add master's degree, workshops, courses and languages to their curriculum. They seek excellence and think: will it be in time and money well invested?, is it worth it? "They tell themselves." Nothing further from reality, disappointment, discouragement, anxiety. That's what they feel after months and months without finding a job. In Vox we know that there are ways to encourage the recruitment of our young people and promote stable, long-term and quality employment among employers. Formulas that stop suffocating with taxes and social burdens those who have to hire our young people; formulas that go beyond reducing quotas of self-employed people who waste any attempt at entrepreneurship; formulas that allow us to combine studies and training in practices in companies; formulas that allow us to complete and specialize in the training of our young people. We believe that Lanbide is also a good instrument for this last one, so it would be good to express it to the maximum. Business human resources experts make that clear. On many occasions, our young people have been oriented to university careers or trainings that do not have excessive demand, and once a degree in hand, they discover that there are other professional profiles with more demand that fit their interests. It is to them, to whom we must facilitate a new opportunity to focus their career. Our industries suffer, for example, from specialists in electromechanics, welders, trolleys, let us put the easy things to those who want to change their future. Let us help this new generation of young people, who have also grown up with technology, and let us make it possible to meet this growing demand linked to digitization. Let us train lawyers in computer science, healthcare programming or economists specialists in online marketing, for example. Eliminating precarious employment is also possible, and it goes through the same solution – says Vox and all experts – in order to raise wages... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... online, for example. Eliminating precarious employment is also possible and goes through the same solution, says Vox and all experts, in order to raise wages, especially the lowest, without having to destroy employment, it is necessary to drastically reduce the burdens on companies. Taxes and contributions that have been damaging the generation of employment for decades, resigning our young people to wages of misery, to precarious jobs below their qualifications, undermining the illusion of our young people and frustrating their expectations of independence. With regard to the proposal from the parties supporting the Government to rely on the European Youth Guarantee, Research and First Experience Funds in public administrations, it would be really good if the €7.5 million envisaged in the plan were to come. To regret, yes, the obsession with eco-lobbies, to which neither the nationalist parties escape, that fixation for the postulates of the 2030 Agenda and, in this case in particular, for green employment. We are also sold successfully by the 525 people who got their first job opportunity in 2021 thanks to the Lehen Aukera program. Welcome, of course, to the new jobs. But they do not sell as a success what really is a failure; of those 525 new jobs, almost 400, to be exact 395, were in practice and many of them, moreover, part-time. Moreover, in Lehen Aukera's eight-year walk and after an annual investment of EUR 4 million, only 3,300 jobs have been created. Is this a success? 32 million euros for 3,300 jobs? I think we have a lot to do. But any active employment policy aimed at achieving more quality and sustainable employability will of course be applauded by Vox. They also tell us about the Basque Employment Strategy 2030. It is one more of the same as that of 2011-2014, of the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, of the Basque Employment Strategy 2020. Many plans, but very few results. They also tell us about the relief contract, where the reduction in working hours and wages, as you know, can only reach 75% at best. They insist on focusing on inclusive, sustainable and equal employment. Our young people need active employment policies and not ideological policies. The supermarket cart is not filled with ideology, nor is the mortgage paid at the end of the month. Therefore, in Vox we are clear that young Spaniards need housing, stable and quality employment, as well as opportunities to form a family. As we are also clear that the way to achieve this is to stop making money at the expense of the tax effort of entrepreneurs and self-employed people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u32	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u33	Thank you. We have a discussion about the integration of the young in the production network. I think it is a question that is ill proposed, and a discussion which we believe to be not adequate. The egg or the chicken. What should be done, inserting young people into a precarious model of society or from the public authorities do everything possible to change the productive model, the labour relations and also the promotion of quality employment? A new debate in which young people are seen as a uniform entity, an entity as a unique and exclusively labour force and without being subject to rights. Señoras y señores del PP-Ciudados, the problem of the difficulty of entering production is that of a system designed to promote the interest of the patricians. And in that, you and your pretty ones, not just yours, have a lot to do. We believe that the role of young people has been made in this state for many years to become the fundamental piece of economic model, and even here, Euskadin. A youth that after years, decades of neoliberalism, of ETT, of Bologna process, of career-enhancing, of master-enhancing, of labor reforms intended solely to study in order to work in a precarious way. You've given a lot of data. Other data have been presented in this debate. But the young people in Euskadi, when they have to look for work, face totally precarious conditions, an exacerbating temporality, totally regrettable working conditions and wages. And yes, the debate on the unemployment rate has also been put on the table. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we already said that the government's goal was unambitious. And indeed, because we are now below 10%, because we are starting to look at 10%. But when we talk about the youth employment rate and, above all, about the conditions, we are talking about very precarious conditions. And this data, as I said, doesn't happen, is given just after the neoliberial policies that have been set up for years. You and others here, Euskaki, they're the result of all the pretty ones you're pushing. They are not, logically, meteorological phenomena that appear in the section of Eguraldia, they do not occur because they do. They occur after years of misguided policies aimed at the general precariousness of society and in particular of young people. Eta azken urteotan Euskadin, éta batez ére Statuan, aprovatzen ari dira dira zenbait neurri gauza hauelta emateko. Like, for example, increases in the interprofessional minimum wage; I don't know what the People's Party-Citizens' opinion on this issue is. The law of riding, in order to fight against the false autonomous and to give labour rights to the mostly young people, who not only, but mostly young, who work in these sectors, which both the People's Party and Citizens voted against. Or I will not bring here again the debate of the Labour Reform, which has meant passing only in a month of 11% of indefinite contracts to 22%. We already know the positions in your group on this issue. Moreover, in this debate it was obvious... And in the workplace, a debate that is on the table right now, which is the digitisation and automation of processes, cannot be avoided. This is doing... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... a debate that is right on the table, which is digitisation and process automation. This is making a lot of jobs disappear, and here the policies remain the same: working more hours to charge even less. When the debate has to be the opposite, work less hours, charge more and distribute the work there is. That is the debate we need to have. And of course, you will have to address the issues of training, but we can't talk about training if we don't talk about the productive model, and you also talk, and you usually talk about it, and you make a speech that we leave ideology aside, but you in that model for mass entrepreneurship, because virtually every citizen and every citizen we undertake, and that someone explains to me what model of entrepreneurship and what model of wealth that creates, that is a pure and hard ideology, a pure and hard neoliberal ideology in which each one when he gets up from bed has to go out into the street, fight in a jungle and fight with other citizens in unequal conditions, because he doesn't undertake the same thing as he has 100,000 euros at home saved or his father or mother has given them, or with whom he has to start investing with a small credit and they have to return. We'll agree on that. Formakuntzaren arloan egia da espizializatu beharko garela etenbebe, baina hori ez da egiten. Nork ordainduko of the hour? Gustatuko litzaiguke ere bai galledera horestzun bat ematea because there is much talk now of lifelong learning, that now the workers, especially young people, but also younger people, will have to form something of life. But who's going to pay for that, Mr. Gil? Who do you propose to pay for it? The workers? The workers? Or companies? Who pays the bill? Who pays the bill? Because companies are taking advantage of so far and models like the one you are proposing without offering a stable career and offering very precarious conditions. That question therefore says: "Companies do not find enough workers to meet or cover the jobs they were asking for." Well, you already know the answer that a gentleman who is surely closer to his ideology than mine gave them: "pay them better, pay them more, offer them better working conditions." And with the theme of training, another theme, has been sliding or in several interventions, about young people choosing poorly their studies. It's a pretty dangerous message. It seems that now we will only be able to study things related to digitization, process automation, etc. And that's a very dangerous message that brings us back to others, and you're the spokesperson on the Education Commission. Therefore, it also seems more dangerous to me. Shouldn't we also promote education in Social Sciences, Philosophy, Arts and Humanities? Because it seems that here it arises in a totally opposite way. There has also been talk of Lanbide, and we also use it to say that Lanbide has to be used to advance the training needs of the future and to strike a balance between that existing labour market and the one we want to go to. And that is why we also advocate Lanbide's direct involvement in the labour market and that this reform, which is so much being called for, must come as soon as possible. We also miss the amendment that has been tabled by the groups of the Government, although we agree with some of the points, to mention Lanbide to the reform of Lanbide in that regard. Eta latta ére lehen aukerari buruz ére, berriro hitz egiten da, éta datuak mahai sheneratu dira ajada, bakarrik lau kontratuetatik bat bakarrik behin-behinekoa egiten da. Dira Gobernuaren datuak, and as long as they are not accompanied by stability clauses it will not cease to be a mere transfer of public money to private companies. A model, although not the same, the result is the same as that put forward by Mr Gil in this initiative. Therefore, let us introduce those clauses of labor stability that through the amendments of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita have been approved, for example, in the law of youth, so that Lehen Aukera can be a useful tool for the young working class in Euskadi because we are not worth anything so as to generate employment, as has been repeated by our group on many occasions. And also guarantee wages worth at least 1,200 euros in order to guarantee decent living conditions. With this, the reform of the profession is indispensable, and what has been said: the companies must improve the conditions provided if they want to, and they must improve wages and provide a career of work. The young man of the future needs the well-being of the present youth. And for this we will continue to fight for the pretty ones who will maintain worthy forms and arts, and as politics are not good, we will vote against the initiative which PP-Ciudadus has presented to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u34	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Madame Sáez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u35	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. Well, in this action of ours today, in this other proposition of the Law, we do not agree with what is proposed, because the study of the reading is wanting in it, and it seems to us that there is something lacking in the general, which is common to the young and to the job. I'm sure you don't know what's going on. Again, what follows from the analysis which is made, or the measures which are planned, seem to us not at all to be those which may now be applied. Because of the beginning, or some way, he's put himself in the center, for example... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... they do not appear to us to be at all applicable at the present time. For instance, the planning of this form of cheques, which seems to us to have no room in the actual reality of the present day. That it is a kind of neoliberal planning in this way, and that in some way it gives actual opportunities for privatization, and that it would be a different mechanism for privatization. There's not a proposition that could upset the situation that's been brought here today. And we should say rather, that these cheques would not change reality, that it would be more than a parche, that it would be worse than a parche; because we have here a question of structure, which concerns the Precera, which also concerns the manner of reading young men, and in general we need a much stronger scheme. Besides this, here in this door, the last is always said to be − has something positive in any way, and you know very little about the position and what all these things are proposed. Here, for instance, there's been a conversation about the amount of money that RedMedon has invested in the young, not just young and at work. For instance, the First Year Plan has been mentioned. I doubt what we're talking about when we talk about the FIth Plan, because it's a young plan, which was set up until 2020, but we still don't know how well it was resolved. And that's where I've heard from this here − I agree that the evaluations are missing from many things, of many programs, of many plans. And, for example, on the previous Friday, I'd like to remind you of the words mentioned by the chief physician of the departments of Artolanolls, because it's been stated that until now there's no definite strategy to be given, it's not that the Euskacy didn't have it, and that's a direct connection with these serious plannings made in the world of employment. As for this, by an analysis of reality, or, at least, by making a general reading, we know what data is, I shall not enter into the inheritance. I dare say that in the field of high-quality employment there is the greatest gap, which is what is lacking, and it is evident that the temporary rate of provisionalness is very high. Because we see that the areas where young people usually work are very pretorous areas, and that in some cases young people are reading cheap work from this concept or those terms. If there's a lack of structure for us who live here, and how young people get into the field of employment or a problem in the wash market. And we see that the greatest part of the work which is produced is the pretor: that they are very low wages, and that contracts are seldom made, and even when they are made, we must see what kind of contracts are made. What we're seeing is that all generations of people are condemning themselves to instability. We see that a great majority of the young men are not sure of their employment, and above all a horizon is lacking; we should say, that this hope of being a employment is wanting, incluus. And here it has been said, we are always the most developed generation, and I don't like that term at all. We're a form of generation, maybe we're more formed than our parents in proportion, but that doesn't mean... We should need a job connected with this formation, but formation isn't just a problem. There are also −formations without having been read in these terms, many young men have not this formation; but the question is, how we integrate young people into the present lava market, and especially how real the young are to be able to work on suitable conditions in this British market. There is a period of age which condemns itself to predominance, and it is moreover that young being and that pride are normalizing. And we would say all this, or what is the most important for us today is in this proposal, that the Government is looking forward to the correction of the whole government itself, and offering us what it has to do with it. It's about existing programs, and it seems to us that the programs which have been made don't have enough evaluations or impacts that are not evaluated too much. And it also seems to us that we do not know exactly what has been accomplished in the programmes which have hitherto been made. And if we do not know what has been accomplished, we do not know how to proceed. Besides this, the government has set up the whole correction, and therefore this whole correction will be drawn out of this legislature at the present day. And here it is mentioned in one point, that the evaluation of the first choice has been positive, and that there will be opportunities to continue and increase and increase inclusis, or that there will be in it enough to increase and increase it. In that sense we've been asking a lot of questions over the past few weeks about the First Love Program, and I feel like it's time to focus on this program, because it's one of the programmes that's financed for money from fun, the one that's in the hands of the fun. It's a reference to evaluation. This evaluation is done by the Ise Foundation. This evaluation is related to 2017 and 2019 years, 2020 and 21, I understand they don't fit. Especially since, for instance, in 2020 years, the data is completely different from the range of a pandemy. But it's only a few years since they're evaluated. And we also have to consider what focus is applied to this evaluation corresponding to the First Option Program. I don't want to mention, in the first place, that the report of this evaluation isn't made up, that we haven't found it, that I don't know what it is or what it is, but I don't know what it is or what it is, but it seems to me that every report in the Euskozoa will have to be maintained when it makes any public evaluation, or that language has more right to do it. Apart from this, as far as the First Option program is concerned, we have mentioned it, but we would like to put the focus on the resulting contracts and work that are produced. And in that sense, the First Chance Program has a lot of obvious problems. And here's a board that says all these years, what kind of contracts have been made. And most of the kinds of contracts that have been made are − but when I say most of them, the proportion in this case is proportionally great, so that most of them are practise contracts. And I also think about the practice contracts... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... −... In this case the proportion is extremely proportionally great, so that most of them are practise contracts. And I think that practice is going to have to open melon one day and talk about what practice is financed in contracts. Considering that, after the end of your behavior or your studies, we have three years of practice to hire in contracts, young men, at the maximum year, are being too much abused by the practice of these contracts. And we know that the prerogative of young men, for instance, is one of the principal consequences of these contracts. And, the opening program, the star that finances with four million people from the Eukong, finances practice contracts, which we don't know what fruit they give, and then they're still in those companies. So when we talk about the quality of employment, we must talk about the contracts, we must talk about this provisionalness. For example, as far as the first option is concerned, unlimited contracts or practice contracts can only be financed, and temporary contracts cannot be financed. But what's a practice contract if it's not a temporary contract, a contract that ends around a year? We believe here, for example in 2021, that the practice contract was 400, when 525 contracts were made, the First Amendment program, so that we'll have to focus on another model and build according to other plannings what the Euskion offers to young people. It seems to us that there are programs, but that they are not well evaluated, that they do not apply themselves to the line, and, as we have said in the last few weeks, we have spoken a thousand times, we think that the analysis of young and job must be deeper, and that the programs which are planned must be much more recent. And we must see exactly where we have problems of which we have to invest, and especially to give young people real opportunities, to participate in an active manner, with all the rights of employment in the desert market, based upon quality, and especially on the right we have to build our lives, if we consider the real possibilities of hiring them, but in a public manner, putting all inspection and real planning upon the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Passing the answer turn, the representative of the popular-Chaulous team, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Well, thank you very much to all the groups for their contributions to this debate, I think they all add something, although I was surprised to hear Mrs Ipiñazar say that she does not understand the meaning of this debate. Well, I'll explain it to you again: why is this the first concern of Basque citizens? Is that a good reason? Because it's our young people's first concern? Is that a good reason? And because we have worse data than in the rest of Spain; I have said so before. Unemployment among people between the ages of 16 and 29 is 17.9%, compared to 10.3 of the general population. And the problem, I have added, is especially acute in Guipúzcoa. And because, as I said before, according to Young Business Talents' latest report, the future of work is the concern of almost 50% of young Basques. That is why we have had this debate, because that is what concerns the Basque citizens. And because that's what worries our young people. And I am glad, I hope, that we all share the goal: we should reduce youth unemployment. Unemployment in general should be reduced, but the young man especially, because he is especially high. This goal I think we all share, right? What we do not seem to share is the diagnosis of how we are about the situation. Because, of course, if we actually have the groups that support the Government that think it is doing well, that the data is good and that with continuing to do what we are doing is enough, then, indeed, this is not going to improve substantially. You see, it is true, and I understand that you focus on the decline that has occurred in recent quarters, but that is absolutely insufficient: that we have some data that still make any government blush. And that, denying this, trying to continue to deepen the self-congratulation of the government does not help anyone, not even you. You said we worked for our parish. No, in any case we work for your parish, if we work for some parish, we don't work for any parish, huh? We work, in fact, because it is the main concern of all Basque citizens −re Pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito-pito. Therefore, the first thing we would have to do is share the diagnosis, which is the first part; the fundamental part. I mean, we have a serious problem with this, and what we're doing is not enough. I am not saying that nothing is being done; I am saying that it is becoming insufficient, and there are the facts that prove it. It's pretty objective, isn't it? I share with all of you that we all want quality employment for our young people, but do you know what the worst quality of employment is? The kind of people who don't have a job. That's the worst quality possible. Of course we would like the first job of all young people to be indefinite, with a great salary level... Of course we'd be interested, of course we'd like to. But let us be realistic: first we have to get youth unemployment rates down. And we're going to set this goal because, if we put ourselves to the other, the first one we didn't; I wish we could go directly to get all the young people to have a fantastic job. First, have a job; best possible. And of course, Mr Martínez Zatón, entrepreneurship is not an ideological issue. Entrepreneurship is what has given rise to the business fabric that we have today, and will give rise to the business fabric that we will have tomorrow. And this is not neoliberal: this is economics first. I mean, if we don't generate business projects, if we don't generate wealth, it can't be distributed. First we have to generate it. And wealth is not generated by public media; it is generated by business projects. No, I didn't say that people choose careers badly. What I have said is that people lack guidance in choosing careers; careers and studies. And I am delighted that you study what you want, knowing what you do; that is, with sufficient guidance and support. And they asked me, "Who's going to pay...?"... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and I am delighted that you study what you want, knowing what you do; that is, with sufficient guidance and support. And they asked me, "Who's going to pay for the training checks?" Hey, but who do you think pays for the training right now? The same is true, because the training processes that are currently being carried out cost us a lot of money. What we're saying is that if this system isn't working well enough, let's try another way, shall we? Of course, you, the parties that support the Government, what you propose is to continue to do the same. That is to say, we do not accept the diagnosis that there is anything to improve, and what we propose is to continue doing the same, the conspicuous formulas: to continue developing, strengthening what is being done, etc. We believe that we have to change the pace and that we have to do more effective things. And, well, we are satisfied that we have brought this debate here, because we think that, as I said earlier in the introduction of many others, they put the fundamental problems of Basque citizens in this rostrum. And that's the only way we're satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gil, of course, the point is that you proposed that there is self-congratulation, and nothing more, nothing further from reality, because I have done all I have done is put the mirror on it and tell it: listen, we have made a series of policies, they have developed, and the data have improved. And then I said to him, "and we don't settle." Because this will have been heard in this rostrum from the socialists on all occasions: "we do not conform." Because we want to keep reducing unemployment in general, we want to keep reducing unemployment also for young workers, and we also want that job to be of quality. No, we don't settle. And that's why we're implementing measures. It is not true, you say. No, no, Keep doing the same thing. No, no, It is what this Government is doing that it is continually implementing new measures. You were telling me, for example, about the fit of profiles. He says so at his initiative point. We agree. And last week, Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia has signed a protocol with the Euskadi clusters, which I believe you will appreciate positively, because I think it goes perfectly in line with what you yourself said on your initiative. It is not true, then, that we are stagnant - we want to give that impression to this - stagnant in policies that are being made. No, no, Why? Because this government made a logical reading from the beginning. And it is: the scenario has changed, therefore, knowing what we do right, let's implement what is done right and add new formulas to deal with this unknown scenario so far. And that's what's working out for the citizenry. And of those good results I have no doubt that we are all happy. You, too, obviously. And what we're going to have to do is go down that path that's giving those results. And I have nothing to object to with the training checks, as I have told myself. It is not an element that is currently being contemplated by the Basque Government, it is an element that is used in other countries; in some it has produced good results; in others it has not. You'll have to explain why not. But, of course, I do tell you that the conception that we have... In any case, any measure must go through absolute control of the public. This isn't worth paying someone Harvard master's degree to Aravaca. That's what I'm telling you. No, no, Obviously, we will have to make logical controls, whatever the mechanism, the measure, the tool that such training, that such integration takes place in accordance with the standards that are set by the Government. To Mrs Saez de Egilaz, I say that, with regard to the Lehen Aukera, of course, something good will happen when the call comes out and in less than two months, in less than two months, it runs out, runs out. And also when the ISEAK Foundation establishes an analysis of the data that you have, of course, and the years, as you have commented, the data that you have, highlighting that, in fact, this makes the employability of young people increased, and making a comparison with those who have not come to this program. And that is also an external report to the Government, which I believe has value, and perhaps that is why it is only in Gastelaniaz, not in Basque, because if it were the Government and the Department, of course, it would be complying with language regulations. And I am also aware that you have made several requests for documented information, which I have still looked at in the database, are not yet answered, and where more data will be received than I think it will be important to count. And then there's one thing, Mr. Gil -- I'm coming back with you -- which we also differ. Look, and maybe this is ideological, but I think it has a very important practical component. We do not propose that employment should first be created in order to ensure that this employment is of quality. No, we believe that we need to establish that these two objectives are aligned: job creation and quality employment. And in that context, in this context is where we are working. We have heard it on numerous occasions here, telling Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia herself, with actions from this Government, from the Basque Government, from the Department of Labour and Employment itself, from the various departments of the Basque Government with the Berpiztu programme. But everything is also aligned with other policies that are already focused on achieving that goal of quality employment - which I share with Mr Martínez Zatón what he said - as can be the scope of the interprofessional minimum wage or the labour reform itself, which, as I have said, has, since its adoption, achieved a very important increase in the number of indefinite contracts, which is very important for young people. And finally, I don't resist, you can go out to this rostrum and say a lot of things, Mrs. Martinez. And you can go out here and try to be a reference to everything you want. Of course, the problem lies in: you explain to young people what Vox's position is on the interprofessional minimum wage; you explain to young people why Vox votes in the European Parliament against guaranteeing the minimum wages that allow them to live decently - and I read in text what was being voted on at the time - or you explain to young people in this country, from Basque, why they voted in... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...live decently. And I read textually what was being voted on at that time. Or explain to the young people of this country, from Euskadi, why they voted against the labour reform that has made it possible to increase precisely the indefinite contracts. Here you can come and say whatever you want, but by the facts you will know us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u40	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Mrs. Ipiñazar, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u41	Thanks again, ma'am. Mr Gil, I think it is more than obvious that in this case your initiative made no sense. In view is what, what have been the explanations and justifications of the rest of the groups. More so, as I said in my first round, the evolution of all employment policies, including youth employment, is favourable. I didn't say it's good, it's favorable, but it's better, it's different. Even so, if you are so concerned and concerned about youth unemployment, you had once again an opportunity to pass the youth law to give it that impetus. Since in that very law, when we created a Basque youth system, you, in this case Mrs Garrido of the People's Party and Citizens, were against the creation of that Basque youth system. And among the services of direct offer of the Basque youth system is support to youth employment, offering advice and consulting. And you in your paper were against the creation of that system. Which may be a basis for improvement, but they were against it. Moreover, if we go to the lines of intervention of the Basque youth strategy regulated in the Youth Law, the first line - and it is no coincidence that it is the first line - is that of youth and employment. And in this line it is regulated by law, Mr Gil, that public administrations will promote specific programmes and concrete actions aimed at facilitating and promoting the employment of young people, and promoting quality youth employment. It also regulates something very important that concrete measures be taken against recruitment fraud, including the fraudulent use of practices; in addition to promoting the acquisition of work experience, training, lifelong learning... Anyway. We have just passed a youth law, which you have already taken up with much more, all the supposed concerns that you have or that you raised in this initiative. And with regard to the data on the youth unemployment rate, which you think doesn't matter to you, the alarming stains. I'm not saying it's a rate that we like or conform to, much less. I have already said that, hence our amendment. But the reality, and this is not a meteorological phenomenon either, the reality is that year by year and quarter by quarter, is decreasing. And that is the reality, even if we have to keep insisting and working on it. And I find it curious that it is also you who are calling these figures alarming and unacceptable - which, in your view, are the fault of the management of the Basque Government - when in the last year of the mandate of the PP of a certain M. Rajoy's youth unemployment rate in that year was almost four times lower than that of the Spanish State. Not four points. Four times lower. That's scary and alarming. Which, and besides, I don't think we were at that time worse than we are now. With this I do not need to make a rare mixture, totally intentional of various data to arrive at a conclusion that, among other things, is neither true nor rigorous. Let us begin by analysing what each and every one of us has done from our area of competence to reduce the rate of youth unemployment; what its consequences have been, and then we will conclude which have yielded favorable results and which have not. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mystate, he mustn't speak. Together, Podemos-Toybez, Martinez, he mustn't talk. Pick up EH from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u43	Yeah. Thank you, Chief. Well, I think there's a reasonable discussion here today. That there is always one of the disputes between youth and employment, or at least young, and that there is a manifest question in the affair of employment. And I think it is plain that the greater number of the younger men are very much interested in the work-life, because their uneasiness about the future in the work world, or about the prestigious reality which they have in the world of employment, is manifest. In this sense I believe that the fact itself has been ill-founded, and on one side has been brought to us by the popular party, that the proposition which Ciudad has brought us does not seem to give us a chance of looking forward in other designs, and of jumping into some other reality. But at the same time, there is a lack of discussion about the data we have now and the programmes we now have. And I think it's very consistent with the correction of the government in that sense. And in these terms, I would like to remember that in some questions made by our party, in the resurrect program, the answers to certain questions made about the plan of the young impact were plainly stated that this plan of the youth had not given enough fruit. The data is missing, the data is not given, the details are given, and we don't know what those millions have spent, we don't know what the programs are currently working for, we don't know what they're going to do anymore. What happens in the youth's field is always the same, and I've said it over and over and over again, and I'll say it over and over again, and I won't get tired of it in that sense. I don't think things that are done are evaluated and we don't know what many programs come to. That's why a much more common plan should be known where we want to go exactly and what we want to do. Young man's been talking about the law these days. The young man is not carried forward in the law by a real proposal of a frame, in order that he may not be rejected in the young and in the field of employment. We were asked to commit to an engagement not to invest in that law with money, and the government refused to do it. So we have to talk about young people and presidency, when we speak of young people and of employment. Yeah, that was the way it was. Talk about young people and jobs. [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... we must, therefore, speak of youth and preparation, and when we speak of employment. Yes, that was the way it was, when we talk about youth and job, we have to talk about the preparation, and if we don't begin to talk about the preparation, if we don't talk about the temporary rate, if we don't talk about the low contracts that are made, if we don't talk about the practices around the contracts, if we don't talk about all these things, and if we don't take concrete measures, and we don't know where we're going, we'll go on until now: with certain programs, with several things, but without knowing what field each is situated in, what it is for. As we have said before: you've given centrality to the budget program in this government for the past few years. You also plan that through this correction, the first options. Deja mucho que desear. And I think we'll have to talk about it too, we'll have to talk about the programmes, we'll have to talk about the apps that make sure the show is specific. And that's why we're going to vote for our proposition of the Popular Party today, of course. But we do not agree with this correction of the Government, because there is no visible circumstances, or because we do not exactly see what it is that this government is intended to give the young man and the functionary for once, not to finance, to refuse to exceed the prerogative, and to increase the real possibilities of the young in the field of employment. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote the original text of the proposition as the Basque Groups of populars-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0. So it's not accepted. Next we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 39; the opponents are 34; abstations, 0; white, 0.1 So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: I'm talking about the planning of the team members of Casanova Alonso EH gathered together, the losses of the Games and the other teams of euphorkas. Discipline and final resolution. " Mr. Casanova's turn of the proposed team is yours to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u45	gentlemen, hello. Good morning, everyone. Today, the Games Company has to complete a united meeting. And even if he's paranoid, the state of war has calmed him down a little, he's calmed down a bit. It was expected to be complicated and conflicting, and perhaps this atmosphere will be reduced a little by the fact that the wars will give an impulse to theives of the spiritual energy, and so forth. And that factor might make the meeting a little easier than you think it would be. But it's true, we can't say that the situation of Games has been a peaceful life and evolution within the past few years. Some years ago there was one of the important eupscal companies, the tip-point in the retal energy area, the one who earned a fortune for years, and, apart from the giant Iberdron, the big difference between the eucalypices was made up in the stock. 2017. There was a deep, profound change in this company, because a fusion/createment process was given with the recurrents of the Giant Siemens or the olic session. It's true we're talking about fusium/created because we've been told from the beginning that what we've sold to us as a foundation was an establishment of practice, and that there'd definitely be decisions and control in the hands of the German company. Data and reality, evolution, has shown us that this was the case. And as we said in the past few years, Games have made a conflictary career. Since this foundation/generation has been given for the last few years, four (geo? ) There have been several differences in this company, as far as management of crude internal collisions, quarrels between German companies and euphony equipment, the disagreements of business models, and most of them in the company, which is called the most outside, loss, and negative economic data. Thus, when it was appointed, the new director to be renewed or officially appointed to-day, but when it was announced that his appointment was to be in Madrid his physical position, and thus the loss of the decision of this company was carried out of the Basque Country. With the request of this data and this situation, we presented our initiative with other steps already given. From the starting-point of our initiative it is the state of Games, but it is far beyond the fact that the case of Games is not an isolated case, it is impossible to conceive what has happened with the Basques, which has been very similar. There was also a Basque company at the end of a strategic sector, in this case a telecommunation during a privatization process, and today it's over, and it's hard to know what's more and more diluted in a series of debriefs. In the first place, the optical funds were privatized, then the investment speculators came in, then the stock company, then Zegota, then MásMovil, and... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...was privatized, then the investors came in, then pulled out to the stock shop, then entered Zegota, then MásMovil, and now MásóMovil has joined another company, and that part of the Eucaltels has stopped diluted, I'd say, in the homeopathically, because it's the new company that's been the truth that's lost forever. He said, "It's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's not true, it's true. It is important to reflect on the role that investment funds are developing, not only with regard to the Basque economy and businesses, but at a more global level, although it obviously affects us. In the case of Gamesa, the transaction was not purchased by a fund, it was a more traditional operation between two industrial companies, although in this case the foreign competitor bought from the Basque company. In the case of Euskaltel, it is clear that we have come across a more traditional game of funds, in which speculation has been sought and the company turned into a business instead of coming to share a business with a company, the company becomes a business. And it's important to reflect on... as I said before, the role that funds are acquiring globally. Funds that have virtually inexhaustible, inexhaustible investment capacities. There are funds like... that we all know, like Vanguard, like BlackRock, like Street State, are the three largest in the world. Black Rock is the largest fund in the world that controls a capital of ten billion dollars, ten billion dollars, which is five or six times the Gross Domestic Product of the Spanish State. And only if it were an economy would it match or be just below the United States and China. These funds, the BlackRock fund in particular, owns a large part of Ibex 35 and also has several billions invested in Basque companies. We're talking about the big ones. Then there are other funds, as I was saying, even a little one like Zegona, which at one point I called a bottom of chichinabo, because it was not a fund with this potential nor much less, because it was able to handle and maneuver from within Euskaltel to make us the broken that (?) I had done it. We are faced with these funds, which are a reflection of what is the global economic situation, in which there is a break in the balances in the distribution of income, an imbalance favorable to the elites who accumulate more and more capital, and which, in large part, that capital is being conveyed through these instruments of investment in a perverse dynamic that is increasingly placing elements of our society in the hands of these instruments. And we're not just talking about these funds investing in companies, we're talking about they condition the dynamics of companies, they condition the wage and labour dynamics of companies, they condition their future, because they give priority to the short-term benefit over the strategic perspective, but in addition, these funds advance in privatization and in the search for new business areas by driving privatizations of what up to certain times was understood to be either public services or rights, and we're referring to the entry of these funds on issues as sensitive as residences. We have seen some residences identified during the pandemic precisely owned by investment funds, or questioning and hindering the exercise of the right to housing through speculative housing funds. Therefore, we understand that there is a problem, there is a big problem, because this is difficult to stop. It is not happening to us alone, they are at state level, at European level, at all levels. The power to (?) economic and financial fire of these funds, as it endangers the independence of any company wishing to buy them. And this is true, we are a very small country, we are a very small country, and we have very little economic resources compared to these giants. But we believe that what we can do is what we can do in the sphere of our own hands and faculties. And things can be done. And we're here to propose what things can be done. Because these funds, as I said, do not only vary the characters of the troops, but rather the symbol of the United States, or the symbol of the Jersey Islands. If these funds come to change our hundred producers, to condition, to harm our hundred producers. And when they get into business things get worse, and the short-term is more than the strategic perspective required in a healthy industrial model. That's why we have to face them. Because these funds do not appreciate the connection with produciative surroundings and to a hundred producers, they don't appreciate the romance, they don't even appreciate the fact that they have a first relationship with their own providers. We're not talking about the symbol, we're talking about a way of understanding companies and industry. And like I said, we can do something, and we're here to ask you to do something. We are often criticized by opposition groups for being critical and not putting alternatives to problems on the table. We have been denouncing an irreversible or irreversible process for years, at least, until the moment of loss of roots among the main companies in this country. We have already referred to the cases of Gamesa and Euskaltel, but there are others, some more recent, others earlier. We could talk about Solarpack, we could talk about Aernnova, we could talk about ITP or Ibermática, companies that have also fallen into these networks, and whose roots and ties to this country have therefore been weakened. But he said that in the face of this, something can be done from the modesty of resource constraints that we have as a small country, but of course, everything before resignation and becoming mute witnesses of a process that undermines the ability of this country to have a healthy economy that responds to the needs of the people of this country. That is why today we raised a motion that has finally been enriched by a transaction with the Elkarrekin Podemos group, to articulate a series of mechanisms that we consider urgent to deal with this progressive process of loss of decision-making capacity of our companies, and to be able to build a healthier, more social, fairer, more respectful industrial productive model with people and the environment. And that's where the measurements are. And here, in our proposition, we have reflected. We think, for the first time, that in the management of the Games and the entire population of Games, and as far as we can, we must ask all the people who are within the whole area to end this loss, and to resume the practice of the company in the Basque Country, at least as to the decision, with the relationship and activity which it ought to have in a compatible manner to keep company at a national level, of course. We also think that for a long time, and that talking about it, I don't know whether it gives me any idea of what it's like, but it's true that we've been accused of a thousand and a thousand times of this athlete, but we think we can fix the substance once and for all. [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] It's true that we've been accused of this a thousand times already, but we're thinking that if we can just fix the whole thing up, we're going to have to turn it on, we're going to announce it, and it's going to be six-and-seven years. This fund is still to be activated, it has to perform its original role, and we think, from the state of budget, that it would be possible to add, or to supply, with another 100 million, the fund already reserved for it. Again, we think that we must go to the Arkbanks and the bankings, to ask them to do something, to complete the degeneracy. It's been a long time since we've been accusing the Arkbanks that sold more than $3,000 million in euphoria's rehearsals, and that's what brought the process of disrobing and accusing us of increasing. We know there are limitations, we know that the European bank places certain conditions to maintain its industrial wallet by banks and banks. But even with these conditions, something can be done, and it has to be done to keep Basque companies connected with the Basque People. We also think that the whole system of funds we have on the Way of Instituto Vasco de Finnanzas must be reorganized. We know it is time to discuss this year's law, but it belongs to the government to bring it along. And we're thinking that we have to do an integral reorgan reorganization, so that we can better synchronize all those tools, improve what worked properly, and if it's -1 and − to direct, because we think it's not fixed... that he can't have only one tool for it. Even in our original motion, though later in the middle of the process, we didn't show up for technicalities or disagreements, but we also asked for... and we believe that there is time for this discussion to socialize, −bulenus, there is a cyclically about it, but we want to put ourselves on the table again... That the potentiality EPSV has must be taken advantage of, and also a hundred producers to support it. And that a portion of the important estate, which EPSV has, must be directed to satisfy the strength of the hundred producers of eucalyptus, and the wants of their union. And in the end, by the agreement we have made with the Podemos, we demand that we place the discussion of the public bank on the table, because we believe that there are times to do new things, to do brave things, because we see that there is a time when we see that the economic problems on top of us are serious, and that new and bold solutions are about to be placed upon the table. Hence we believe that the dispute of the public bank is an important one, because a public bank can fill up a paper in the dynamical of the economy and economy, in the several degrees, by direct interventions and loans. That's why we think it's time to do something. We are seeing, as I said, a process of concentration of wealth in the elites, which makes them have financial instruments with a virtually unmatched ability to invest. That leads them to select the most desirable of each market, of each country, of each sector, and incorporate it many times with the sole intention of doing business with the revaluation of the company; they turn the companies into product. If here we aim to have a solid productive model, based on our industrial tradition, with good labour relations, with good jobs, with a qualification, with a stake in R & D, with a respect for the environment, with a fair taxation that allows us to sustain public services, if we want to have an industrial model of a country we need to have the capacity to impact on companies, so that they do not deviate to other models perhaps more tempting from an economic point of view in the short term but that as a society, undoubtedly, would lead us to collective impoverishment. Therefore, we believe it is time to stop complaining that they come from outside with the checkbook to take the companies of this country, and start putting all the mechanisms in place... which has already been seen, a number of them have been exposed; there could even be some more... but all the mechanisms that from our smallness as a country but without underestimating the capacity we can have to influence strategic companies, to prevent them falling one after the other, as in that game of the domino chips, and in the end we end up being simply a place where multinationals and investment funds do their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, representing the Podemos Anther Group, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are dealing with an issue that has already been reproduced on more than one occasion - worth redundancy -. And, that is, it is the consequence of a very concrete model - and I am not going to say the model in generic terms, the capitalist model, but the concrete consequence of a concrete model of capitalism. And I'm going to explain myself. First of all, since now... almost since the very formation of capitalism, the division of labor, the specialization to increase the degree of productivity has been one of its signs of identity. And in recent decades one of the formulas for achieving greater division of labour and greater specialization has been relocation: to the extent that one was more displaced in its value chain and in its production process higher profitability and higher productivity achieved. This, of course, had positive consequences in terms of short-term economic performance, but, of course, it also had highly negative consequences. On the one hand, value chains are therefore much more fragile, because they depend on variables, because they are much less controllable and, on the other hand, much less dependent on the actors in this case that guarantee the general interest, which are basically the institutions. Shows of it, if it can, shows of it is, right now, the situation that we are... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in this case, which guarantee the general interest, which are basically the institutions. It shows that, if possible, it shows that it is right now the situation that we are experiencing with the lack of supply chains, due both to the pandemic at its time and now, to the reality of the war in Ukraine, to the invasion of Russia into Ukraine. This fragility of value chains in production. And also, the environmental consequences, as a result of the need to increase the levels of logistics needed to generate these synergies in value chains and production. Another part of the last decades of this mode of capitalism that we are now experiencing is the financialization of the economy. Because, in the end, all the countries that have been doing it have been to be part of that value chain of a company, that is, for a company, a multinational to set up in my country and I to be a tiny part of that value chain on which little I will be able to say, I have to deregulate, deregulate, all the elements that condition it to enter my country or another. And, then, this deregulation has also allowed the economy to move increasingly towards financialization. That is to say, towards an absolutely rentist, rentist model, no longer like a century ago, but now - Mr Casanova has mentioned it - from the 1990s to the current president, the degree of financialization of the economy amounts to such - and they frighten - figures of approximately 56 billion euros in the 1990s to 216,000 euros today. And that, no doubt, is troubling. And, in addition, this weakness generated by this mode of capitalism linked to financialization makes it easier to lose value when it comes to investment in the productive fabric, because it is much easier to make short returns by entering a company that generates important profits per year, that its turnover is important per year, it is easier to enter and break it down; to sell it to pieces and to adapt, a two, or better to my production chain and to my business value chain or, failing that, to cut it to sell it to the best bidder and to make short returns for my investment fund. And this is what we find on a large scale. And obviously, from Euskadi, you can do little, little in front of that mode. That's right. That is, we are not going to confront this model and substantially alter it, because to say that it could be done would be to deceive ourselves. But we do believe that there are instruments, there are instruments that can be put in place in order to regulate the entry of these investment funds and, of course, also the decapitalization and the rooting or the loss of rooting which means that these investment funds are entering our country with increasing intensity. Indeed, one part of our country's deregulation with regard to the entry of investment funds is the loss of industrial portfolio of the extinct Basque savings banks. This loss of its own financing instrument has made it easier for other investment funds to enter and do what they want with certain companies in the country's industrial fabric. And what do we propose? To try as far as possible to recover models which until recently we believe were perfectly acceptable, and which allow for greater roots and, of course, greater stability in employment and greater sustainability. And Mr Casanova has already mentioned some of the proposals that we have negotiated. Nor am I going to focus too much on them because it would be redundant and, in addition, they already have the option or the opportunity to read it in the transactional. In any case, quite succinctly, I am going to say that basically what we are proposing is that the Basque Institute of Finance - which it is true that the amendment of the law will come soon - acquires a role as a financing instrument for this industrial portfolio that we would like the Basque Institute of Finance, as a public bank, to operate on. And, on the other hand, that the Finkatuz fund - which will certainly hardly be able to compete in quantitative terms with these funds of investment of these economic quantities - will be launched at once; because it is true that it has already been around five or six years paralyzed. That is, it has been announced repeatedly that it will be launched, but here we are, waiting for it to be launched. Nor was the fund that my parliamentary group agreed to in 2020 activated, is Ezten, for certain strategic companies. None of the funds that the Basque Government has intended to launch with a view to entering the capital of strategic enterprises have been launched. We therefore believe that this should also be a priority. And, on the other hand, urge that foundations at the moment of the bank, as well as the bank itself, between the portfolios or in the capital of certain strategic and industrial enterprises, and that, in collaboration with the Government of Spain, the entry of speculative investment funds is limited also in the Basque Country and in the state framework. We believe that we have proposed ways, ways, and tools that can be useful in order to counter this growing model of financialization of specialization and weakness in value chains. That it is not the panacea, that it is not going to be the solution, of course, to this economic reality so drastic, so hard that we live? Well, probably. We know that this is not going to be the case, but our parliamentary group, in this case by trading with the parliamentary group EH Bildu, what we do want is that it is a problem of such relevance and such size that we need to discuss it as often as possible. And, of course, it does pose all the parliamentary groups options, tools, instruments, considerations that we can discuss and reach in common to avoid this inertia that is decapitalized and uprooting the productive fabric of Euskadi... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and to reach in common to avoid this inertia that is therefore decapitalizing and uprooting the productive fabric of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u48	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The motion that we are now debating is one more of the long series that Bildu has us accustomed to that aims to attack by land, sea and air the private companies that have the boldness, the daring to make decisions about their future without counting on them or without following their judgment. We have already seen this with Euskaltel, with Tubacex, with Ibermatics, with ITP, etc. It's not something new or surprising. Bildu never liked companies, investment funds or entrepreneurs. And if they tried to control them by other means before, they are now trying to do so through this Parliament. Of which, no doubt, we congratulate ourselves. And they do so by asking the Government to intervene, to condition and to delimit, they say, all the means at its disposal. They say we have to have an impact on companies. Text phrases that have been used here today. Companies that have generated, generate and will generate in Euskadi wealth and employment exercising their freedom make... They are prevented from doing as they see fit. This gives us a very clear idea of what they would do if they were in the government. And they do it using a concept of apparent legitimization, the root. In defense of the root almost everything is worth, even asking the Government and even other private entities, such as banks or social security entities, to intervene and condition business decisions to prevent movements that companies, in the exercise of their freedom and in defense of their competitiveness, decide to do. The root that we do not know if it has to do with the location of the company, with the origin of the company, with its culture, with its model of social and labour relations or with everything at the same time, in which case we would find that practically no company has enough root. I wonder if the multinational companies that have established their factories here but whose decisions are made in other countries - without going very far, Michelin, Mercedes - have enough roots according to their subjective criteria. I have come to the conclusion that the root is something similar to the Basque label, but a label that you grant, like that of a Basque citizen, and that you grant it only to companies in your political circle. Because really rooting is an ideological concept used to interfere with decisions that they don't like or control. Moreover, to clarify things, when you talk about rooting you should be clearer and talk about forced rooting, because what you are defending is that companies have – you have said expressly – limited their decision-making capacity to take strategic measures that compromise their competitiveness. Under these proposals, an interventionist medieval economic model still survives, betting on a controlled and state-owned economy in Euskadi, far removed, especially in time, from the modern economic systems that currently prevail in the world. And in view of this ancient conception of the economic world, it is worth remembering that we live in a globalized world, in which markets are international and that any company, any company, competes with others located even on other continents. You can't put doors to the countryside, Mr. Casanova. I am sure that you yourself acquire a large part of the products you consume daily from unrooted companies that are perhaps located in countries where most of your inhabitants do not even know where Euskadi is. We live in a globalized world in which freedom of enterprise is one of the great contributions of liberal democracies. Businesses are free to make decisions that they consider... those that they consider appropriate without being respected... as long as the laws are respected. And we believe that governments should not interfere in their decisions for democratic reasons, but also for strategic reasons. Governments are to support companies in their development, not to control and direct their decisions. This means that companies are free to decide to sell themselves as they see fit. When a company like Gamesa leaves we have two ways to see it: one is to get angry, try to avoid it by force and ask the government to intervene, and the other is to reflect and wonder what we are doing wrong to make this happen. I prefer the second option because it is the one that allows us to improve in the long term. But let's not forget the goal, so that Euskadi goes well what we need is that many companies, many companies born wherever they want and with capital from wherever they want, come to Euskadi to generate wealth and employment. Even if they speak English instead of Basque. And even if they don't understand localist and nationalist political projects that try to impose closed and exclusive cultures. I wish we could get twice as many companies as they come from, because we would have much more wealth and much more employment for our citizens. And with these kinds of speeches that you make you get just the opposite effect, scaring companies, scaring investments. Because the only possible alternative to this, to companies coming from outside, is that we were able to generate here many more powerful business projects than we currently generate. But that would require a culture of entrepreneurship and an environment of innovation and openness that we are still far from having. You attack the investment funds, which you accuse of all kinds of perverse intentions. And they are shocked that they have invested in Basque companies €9 billion. I believe that what should be done is to thank them for the trust, the risk they take and the investment effort that many European regions would want for themselves. And ask them what more we can do to increase their investment here and thus increase the capacity of people, of companies - pardon - to generate social wealth and employment for our citizens. Let us not forget, Mr Casanova, that no fund, however powerful it may be, can buy any company that does not want to sell itself, no matter what money is put on the table. No fund can buy something that you don't want to sell. Then, the problem is not the one you buy, it's the one you sell. They also call Kutxa, an entity that I remind them that, even if it doesn't seem like it, is private. And that, like the others, it has as its main objective to guarantee its own survival and, with it, the security of the funds that many Basque and non-Basque citizens have deposited in it. And they demand them and their foundations to invest in the companies that you label with root, interfering in their management, their autonomy and their competitiveness. If you are going to get involved in the management of companies, please also be responsible for the results of this way of intervening... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... in its management, autonomy and competitiveness. And if you are going to get involved in the management of companies, please be responsible for the results of that way of intervening, because, of course, it cannot be hard and not mature. And the same is true of the Voluntary Social Security Entities for which you ask the government to regulate its investments by law and to set the criteria and objectives for them. These entities are also private and have every democratic right to make the decisions they deem appropriate, seeking the maximum return on the capital of their investors, who, by the way, are often small savers who cannot afford the risk of endangering the savings of a lifetime. And then if you can ask us the million's question: Why don't businesses come to Euskadi anymore? Why are some companies leaving Euskadi? Why do some companies in Euskadi decide to sell? And the answer is simple: because we are not attractive enough. You're younger than me and you know the same thing happens in discos. Our high levels of labour conflict, absenteeism and high wage costs do not help us. And in one of those factors you do have some responsibility. So, instead of demanding businesses and the government to do what you want, why don't you look a little inside and wonder how they can help more businesses come to Euskadi to generate jobs and wealth. I mean, what do we have to do to be more attractive? The key word in this debate, therefore, is not forced rooting, it is competitiveness. And I would add, as we are in an international world, in a globalized world, I would add international competitiveness. And what comes next is that we dedicate our effort and our time to wondering how we can help Basque companies to be more competitive and how we can be as a more attractive country, as a region, for more companies to come here. That is the really constructive debate, and to which we make our contributions. From our point of view, on the issue of competitiveness, the Basque Government has been dragging its feet for several years. And Euskadi already needs to make an important qualitative leap, so as not to miss the train. It is not enough to set up institutes and chiringuitos, report and distribute public money, you have to take the bull by the horns and make real commitments. And to that end, we think that we should focus on: once again, improving the education system - which is the basis of almost everything, and also of this - and aligning it with the needs of the productive state; improving technological and transport infrastructures; substantially increasing direct investment in R & D, and also those of private companies; we need to reduce labour conflict, absenteeism in wage costs, because we are above the national and European average, and it is not a question of wages falling, but rather of raising, reducing the costs of employment; we need to reduce the cost of energy, with a clear and determined policy that accelerates the energy transition process while reducing this important barrier of competitiveness; we need to improve the international connection of our companies and clusters, generating a culture open to the world, modern and competitive, that stops looking at the navel and imposing Basque; and we need, above all, to improve the legal security of our legal system, which is one of the greatest demands of our business system, and one of the most important requirements of local value. And there are many more things that can be done - we don't have time now to cut them all off - but the important thing is that to prevent companies like Gamesa and others from deciding not to leave Euskadi we need to make a qualitative leap in our competitiveness. This debate is well worth it, and we encourage the Government to dive fully into it, in order to make a qualitative leap in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u51	Thank you very much, President. On this agenda item, the proposed group EH Bildu raises its concern about the loss of decision-making centres in Gamesa and other Basque companies, after having expressed the intention that the new CEO of the Basque branch of Siemens Gamesa will have his office in Madrid and not in Zamudio, as has been done so far. The Gamesa company merged with Siemens in 2017. My group, the Basque Socialists, agree that it is important to take measures to ensure that companies do not lose their roots in our Basque Autonomous Community, but we must say that these measures have been taken. And this debate is not new in this Parliament. Moreover, this debate is a repetition of what took place on 6 May last year, even in the amendments tabled today by the various parliamentary groups. It is important that, as was stated by Counsellor Arantxa Tapia, following this merger between Siemens and Gamesa, there has been no negative variation to date in the purchases and acquisitions of suppliers or in employment within Siemens Gamesa, as employment has increased in Euskadi, since 2017 that the merger occurred, 40%, from 686 jobs to 942. And you have said, Mr Casanova, that, also because of the situation that is currently being experienced by expectations at the moment, they are a little more positive, on the one hand, with regard to production which, of course, the company itself has. And all this also in spite of the impact of COVID-19, due to -as the counselor said - intense work within the cluster and to an agreement, a MOU, which is held with Gamesa. Steps have then been taken to keep the Basque Government's roots in the area. The root of businesses in Euskadi is something that has been working for a long time, both in the political sphere and in institutional management, both from the municipalities and from the parliaments, as well as from the Basque Government. Even within the government's programme there is an important commitment to the reactivation of the... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... Basque Government. Even within the government's program they are collected... an important commitment to the revival of the economy and employment through various areas: employment, industry, internationalisation, research and innovation. With concrete commitments and specific initiatives designed to give effect to the roots of Basque companies. The objective is to continue to accompany our companies by responding to their problems, minimizing the effects of the economic and social crisis, and focusing on priorities to protect this productive structure. And the Socialists pointed out in that debate that my colleague Susana Corcuera defended here in this Parliament on May 6, 2021, that the adoption of legal rules preventing the entry of foreign capital is not the solution. We don't think it's the way to root. First, because the business activity in Euskadi and the world is in an increasingly global environment; and these transactions between private companies, by their own characteristics, are born of the will of the parties themselves, and contextualize in the private sphere of the management of these companies. That is why we share with the Basque Government the need to create a Basque technological and social ecosystem, which will enable the Basque companies and the tractor companies in our Community to take root. It is true that we are again going through a new crisis also arising from the increase in raw materials and materials in recent months, the cost of light, gas, oil, or the increase in transport, resulting from the situation of war in Ukraine. And that we must continue to take action both at the state level and at the level of... First European, then state, and at the level of the different autonomous communities. Not only to welcome the refugees who are coming to us on the occasion of their own country's departure at war, and coming to Europe. But it is also necessary to protect families and businesses in Europe and Spain in order to alleviate the consequences that can arise from it. That is why the National Plan for the Response to the Consequences of the Ukraine War is being drawn up and is being put into effect, which will be defined and finalized after the meeting that will be adopted by the European Council between today and tomorrow. And the aim of the Government of Spain in this regard is to protect our companies, our industry and our citizens, taking into account the most vulnerable groups. In addition, measures were taken before this moment, last year, with VAT reductions of 10%, etc., etc. And a series of measures that will be extended until June this year, and that will continue to be extended until the end of December if necessary. And all these measures would mean – if they were to be maintained until 31 December – a cost to the public coffers of between EUR 10,000 and EUR 12 billion. This is the reality in which we are moving at European level, at national level and at the level of the Autonomous Communities. At the moment it is a very difficult situation for our companies, and which implies that all the different levels we have, let us take the necessary measures to alleviate this situation with the greatest possible consensus. We must fight for the root, and we must also achieve the most important measures and measures necessary to alleviate the situation that exists, which we currently have. That is why we, my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists and the Basque Nationalist Group are putting forward an amendment to the whole of which we advocate that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the other relevant public institutions to continue working on all the factors that favour the rooting of Basque companies into the territory, and the attraction of foreign companies to Euskadi, as we have already taken up in the agreement of 6 May 2021. And of course, the current situation requires maximum unity in order to achieve the best measures in the shortest possible time, in order to alleviate for the benefit of our companies the current situation we are going through. As my colleague Susana Corcuera said in the debate of 6 May 2021, and which I repeat today because I completely agree: rooting is not imposed, it is guaranteed from a public perspective, creating an ecosystem of competitiveness and comfort for business development. This is what the Basque Government and the Basque institutions are all about, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Sanchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. Chief. Good morning. Well, que Games isn't going anywhere. We will continue to play games, pay our taxes, maintain their jobs at a certain rate, and make its progress in a battle against climate change. What we really need to worry about is that last year she lost more than 8 billion euros. It's about 8 billion euros, you know, like, like, like, like, y'all getting fucked up. ?a vast sum. It seems lucky, and the other because he's with Siemens, that the company has a lot of debt. And... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... It seems lucky, and the other because it is with Siemens that the company has a great amount of debt, and therefore it is not at all unstable, but it is a matter of concern. Let's hope, as we've discussed here, if war brings something good, that's what this is, right? Because it's not bad that Siemens and Gamesa conform a group today, it's not bad for Basques, it's not bad for Basque citizenship. Siemens was in 2017 – and still is – a serious company, it is no vulture fund, no fund that came to cut Gamesa and sell it by pieces, which is the accusation that is made in other cases; Siemens is the largest, was and remains the largest European industrial company. A serious company that was already engaged in the energy production sector, and is therefore a solid group Siemens and Gamesa. Since it is not bad, it is also not bad that, for example, the second Turkish bank is from BBVA or the first energy from Scotland is from Iberdrola; Neither ScottishPower is going to leave Scotland nor the Turkish bank is going to leave Turkey, it is an equation in which both win. And we also win the Basques in this system, first, because many times those who go out with the checkbook to buy out or those who go out with the checkbook to buy out are Basques and Basques; and, second, because... I'm going to put two very close examples. Vitoria's largest employer is four kilometres - with permission from the public administration - four kilometres from this Parliament, and it is Mercedes. The main investor in Mercedes, the main shareholder is a Chinese company called Geely, and the second a Kuwaiti company, and they produce their cars here in Vitoria. Does that mean Mercedes or Mercedes cars will stop manufacturing in Vitoria or will stop designing in Munich? No, no, It will mean, in any case, possibly that next year and within four or five years Mercedes will sell many more cars in China, which benefits Mercedes, benefits Basques and also Germans. Five kilometers away we have the second largest employer in Vitoria, which is Michelin, which is a French company whose main shareholder is American. And both almost reach the quota of 7,000 jobs created in Vitoria. Therefore, the first employer and second employees of Vitoria are outside companies. In front of this photo, you've proposed a long middle-class medium to us today, to the Podemos. I'll shirk a little bit. It's a good measure, but one isn't legal and two aren't appropriate. And now I'll go through them one by one. First of all, fixing the Funds with 100 million Euro, that's possible. You've entered this correction into the negotiations of the former, and if there's a chance and there's money, why not? Last year, the fund adjusted 50 million more euros, it's a growing fund with 210 million euros today. And so in the future, I don't know, I don't have any privileged information, but it seems to me that it will continue to grow. That, then, can be done, although we must be conscious that we can only buy a hundred million of the Games with a hundred million dollars, and therefore it wouldn't have been decisively, even if we invested all 100 million in Games. Secondly, there is a measure - which I think was a bit new in today's debate - proposed by Bildu, and which later on in the transactional has been lost, and it is on the subject of EPSV, the issue of forcing pension funds and EPSV to allocate a percentage of their capital to Basque companies, and that has disappeared; I imagine because Podemos is against supplementing pensions. By the way, I don't know what Bildu's position is in this case, I imagine you are indirectly supporting Basque workers to supplement their pensions with private funds. If you can clarify, Mr. Casanova, I'd appreciate it. But that's illegal. There is a European directive, 2019/ 2341, which considers in its recital number 18 that it assists the freedom of investment in funds, therefore it would be illegal. And, of course, it is undesirable, first, because it reduces its capacity for geographical diversification and, second, because in the medium term, what you would do is overvalue Basque companies with a consequent loss of profitability for future Basque pensioners. And it's not desirable because EPSVs, let's see, if we have two Basque companies that go wrong and break down, we have more unemployment, we have social conflict, people go to the streets and we have a complicated picture. But the system itself doesn't break, it doesn't tumble. On the other hand, if EPSVs are mostly inverted, or in a significant percentage, only in Basque companies, what you achieve is a systemic risk; that is, you manage to shift an economic risk to a systemic risk. Therefore, it is not desirable. Because the main objective of an EPSV or a pension plan, the main objective - and it is not very objective - is to ensure that tomorrow's pensions are sufficient for the workers participating in it to have a decent life. Therefore, that is the main objective, not the root of companies; although one of the founding principles of EPSV is the fact that they invest in Basque tissue and it is very desirable - that without compulsory quotas - EPSV invest in our productive tissue. In addition, work is also being done on legislation to ensure that the EPSVs make socially responsible investments, I say again, always within the European framework, without forcing them with any quotas, right? Thirdly, you are talking about enabling a financial instrument to invest in Basque companies, and I understand the least. Let's see. In Euskadi we have about 20 listed companies; in secondary markets we can have 30. There are not many, because Euskadi is above all a pyme territory. If a bank does a financial instrument what it does is to charge you a commission in exchange for a management. What are you going to do, a business-only investment fund...?... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... If a bank does a financial instrument what it does is to charge you a commission in exchange for a management. What are you going to do, a Basque company-only investment fund? It means, if an investor, a Basque investor wants to invest in Basque companies, what he does is go to Kutxabank and: "Well, then, 1000 euros saved; come, put them in CIE". And that's so easy. How are you gonna... explain to us how that financial instrument is. Because you get a commission for a mismanagement, of course, much success was not going to have that financial instrument. And the fourth one you ask for is public banking; well, we've heard this many times. Let's see, we already have a Basque Institute of Finance, which is not exactly a public bank but is almost a public bank: you can't make deposits but in everything else it's very similar. And we have a Kutxa, we will call it semi-public - for the efforts made, among others, by the Basque Nationalist Party - which is based on public foundations. Beyond that, public banking, public banking, as well as not being legal in the current European framework, are very bad experiences that have existed in the past. I'm not going to name names, but a banker, a banker's family, with a lot of strategic vision and a lot of -- in a part at least -- a great deal of management in your nation, so I try, and I leave a hole that they're still paying for, right? I end by reaffirming what Mrs Tapia said, and it is that the root of a company depends on many factors, in which capital is only one of them. We are talking about energy, transport infrastructure, land availability, taxation, etc. And I would entrust you, Lords of Podemos and Bildu, that you will act instead of bringing motions of this kind, which are totally legitimate, and we very much discuss them, but that you will really do what you have a hand in, that is: to place or locate wind farms; everything that has to do with industrial soil, to stop putting obstacles; infrastructures of transport for goods, to stop putting obstacles, to boycott them... I mean, you can do a lot more than bring motions like this. I only hope that you will continue along this path, not deceiving people, because proposing things that are not legal according to the European framework is deceiving people, that is, they cannot be done today. As much as we have to propose them in Europe, we have to change all the directives, but, well, in principle it seems that Podemos and Bildu will not have a majority in the European Council. Therefore, do whatever is in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u54	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Mythto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u55	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Gil for bringing some wisdom to this concrete debate on the growing uprooting of local companies which are gradually moving their decision-making centres away from Basque, in the same way that their majority shareholders have ceased to be entrepreneurs of Basque origin. It is to be thanked that you have pointed to the reasons and that you have not been left in declarations of intentions adapted to the specific political ideal of each party, and that little or nothing has to do with the needs and realities of our business fabric. But, before focusing on the details, I would like to share with your ladies and gentlemen a couple of notes on the pointlessness that we live in full after full. To take into account the fact that it is precisely the left who is calling for this debate, which demonstrates so much concern for Siemens Gamesa's claim to move its decision-making centre to Madrid, and for the progressive uprooting of Euskadi and companies of Basque origin, when it was the left who was the same abertzale and his armed arm who did most to make companies, businessmen, workers and citizens of all kinds flee this land, its extortion and its crimes. The exercise of hypocrisy is absolutely entrepreneurship. It has to be painful to live in a country that you hate, because Podemos would like to live in Cuba, Venezuela, perhaps also in China or Russia: all the public is exquisite, all the private endless. They insist on demonizing the freedom of enterprise, the free market, the private initiative of the entrepreneur - it has a thousand or two employees - but, who we already paint canas, the defense of the public as the only option ends up becoming dictatorship for greater glory of satraps, like Maduro or Putin, someone they know very well. And what about those amendments full of empty words and content, which are usually presented to us by the groups that make up the Government. These grandiose statements: working for the root and for Euskadi to be attractive to foreign companies. But what does this mean? It is a statement in which everything, or to be more concrete, can be said to give the Government a blank letter to do whatever it wants. What less than having put forward, at least, some alternative to concrete proposals that the other groups have made That being said - and quite rightly so in the matter before us - I would like to say something important, and that is that private companies are sovereign when it comes to making decisions, regardless of whether they are more or less easy. They are sovereign in rethinking strategies, short-, medium- and long-term objectives, in order to keep the company alive and, consequently, in order to maintain their technology and business with the maximum possible employment. I am aware that this truth does not like the progress of Parliament, but it is an irrefutable reality. In Vox we believe that the debate is another, something that seems to be difficult to talk about in this House, and I will say it to you in the form of a headline. That's right, one of those that you run away from as the plague, committed to building a country, to transferring to people a vision of the distorted reality and adjusted to their interests: "The Basque Country, despite being a national benchmark in per capita GDP, is losing its appeal to large companies, also to those who were born here and for those who still remain, and, as a result, its decision-making centers begin to be outside the Basque Country." True, it is an excessively long title, but it reflects the reality of our business fabric, which until a few years ago were composed by Basque entrepreneurs, innovators and entrepreneurs, perfectly recognizable and known, to become anonymous shareholders, many of them, moreover, not Spanish. This is what is happening in companies like Siemens Gamesa, Siemens Energy, Euskaltel, ITP, BM, Solarpack... Companies, all of them, that have experienced the arrival of foreign capital and the progressive loss of weight in the share ownership of the capital... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... Euskaltel, ITP, BM, Solarpack, all companies that have experienced the arrival of foreign capital and the progressive loss of weight in the shareholdership of the Basque capital and, consequently, the loss of decision of the latter. There are several and diverse reasons. One of them is that we live in times of underfunding by traditional banking to cope with industrial growth processes. A situation which obliges companies to resort to international private investors, as is the case for us, and which demand to enter the property with a majority and with the consequent loss of power of the capital of Basque origin. And this often translates into the progressive regional uprooting when it comes to making decisions. In short, and as is the case in the rest of Spain, foreign capital in the Basque Country has relatively easy access to local entrepreneurship. In addition, there is a loss of competitiveness in Euskadi vis-à-vis other autonomous communities, especially Madrid. But it is not only the Madrid community that has been working to be increasingly attractive to talent and to welcome and develop innovative initiatives of all kinds, there are other regions that are gradually positioning themselves in the upper zone of the national economic landscape, more attractive also to offer a more favorable tax for large companies. The data, moreover, speak for themselves. In 2021 Euskadi lost almost 1.3 billion euros in the balance sheet of changes in the tax base of companies, Madrid being the community that hosted most of those companies that decided to move their headquarters out of our region. Here, too, we have other issues of particular relevance in decision-making. Issues such as the very high labour costs in the Basque Country, the unbearable amount of absenteeism, which is 7% compared to the national average of 5%, and which, by the way, have some responsibility for trade unions linked to many of the parties in this House, or also the lack of effective mechanisms to promote the creation and rooting of established companies. And we are referring to mechanisms related to taxes, fees, infrastructure, competitive soil, among others, and, yes, also to mechanisms for financing companies. But of financing and not of participation in the share ownership of them. Let me make a specific point on this issue, as I think it is interesting for citizens that at some point we seriously discuss the appropriateness of whether or not the Basque Government participates with public money in the ownership of private companies as a private investor. I share with you a clear example with data on some of the funding mechanisms that already exist and that I imagine you all know, but that perhaps a large part of the citizenry does not know. Let's talk about the Basque Institute of Finance, which is the public body under the Basque Government to give access to business financing. This body, in addition to providing financing, also invests in the capital of companies. Well, since its inception in 2009, the Basque Government has contributed €333.7 million and reflects accumulated losses in its accounts in these years of €10 million. Yeah, the institute we can turn into an industrial promotion bank. It is to be assumed that in order for us to have a deficit public bank and a further burden for the public coffers that like to feed to the left progresses. And let's look at some examples of companies where you participate. Ekarpen and Socade, with a stake of more than 36% and with accumulated losses since 2010 of EUR 60 million. By the way, the Basque Government and Kutxabank participate in Ekarpen. Ezten Fund, with 24% participation and losses in 2020 amounting to EUR 1.8 million. Background (ABE?), with 15 % participation. A fund entirely managed by a private entity that the Urkullu Cabinet launched in 2019 and that already accumulates a public investment of 24 million, resources of a remarkable magnitude that the Basque Government has put in the hands of a fully private investment fund. It would also be interesting for citizens to know how all these investments have impacted on employment growth, on the increase or not of GDP, on the consolidation of the Basque industrial fabric. I have no doubt that we would take some surprises, at least those of us who are not in garlic. But we'll talk about this another time. Let's get back to the matter that brings us together here today. Because despite all this investment effort, decisions like the change of head office or the transfer of decision-making centres are then made, and we all take our hands to the head. Something that advises to focus the situation of our industrial fabric from a completely different point of view from what has been raised today. And, I insist, I would like to emphasise an absolutely unnegotiable issue, despite the Stalinist inflations of the proposing party and its usual partner in the populist claim, private enterprise is sovereign when it comes to making decisions. And the Basque Government can do little or nothing to keep its headquarters here if the socio-economic conditions are not the right ones. And in this world things work this way, not in any other way, as we can see from the growing interest of companies in other autonomous communities today that are significantly more attractive. So in an environment of free market, maximum competitiveness and demand we have no choice but to respect the right of this and other companies to make the decisions they consider appropriate. And of course we are concerned that this happens, that they decide to move their headquarters and decision-making centres outside the Basque Country. But we should begin by assessing the role of our administrations, their share of guilt, before pointing out to those who are legitimately looking for the best conditions to maintain their company, their activity and their jobs. In short, Vox defends the free market and the freedom of private companies to take decisions that they consider appropriate and necessary for their survival. It is increasingly easier for foreign capital to join the Basque entrepreneurship. And this is a reality that stems from the need for business growth and the lack of traditional banking financing controlled by European legislation. And it is precisely here that we should start the work by looking for effective mechanisms that will make our region a world reference at the industrial and economic level, as it has been for decades, with measures and resources that the Basque Government... Maybe it wasn't necessary for him to invest public money in private companies. Which would be... I think it would be adjustable. And to devote himself to what must be his work: the best management of public money to meet the needs of all citizens. The approaches of Bildu and Podemos, of course, do not adequately address the problem. More adjusted is the amendment of the PP-Citizens group...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u56	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u57	I'm done, Madam President. Although she's doomed to failure... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... EH Bildu and Podemos obviously do not adequately address the problem. More adjusted is the amendment of the PP-Citizens group...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u58	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u59	I'm done, Madam President. ... although it is doomed to failure, since today the amendment of the government parties will be approved, who do not worry about focusing on the problem, who intend to give a blank cheque to the Executive so that it will continue to do whatever it wants, the one that most convinces its particular interests. And we think that's not the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u60	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u61	...we're going to be short, because it's a very interesting debate. I'll start with Mr. Gil Vegas. Look, I read That's how Zarathustra spoke of Nietzsche. I have to admit, I didn't know anything at all. But there is a phrase in which Zarathustra when he comes down from the mountain speaks with a hermit, and then draws a conclusion. The conclusion is this: poor man, God has died and he has not found out. And listening to you that lit and passionate loa to neoliberalism, it gives me the impression that you have missed something of what has happened in recent years in the world, because really few, few, few already remain at this point that trust the magical powers of the market, and the way you do it; above all, because there is an avalanche of empirical evidence that is proving that the market is failing over and over again in terms of environmental sustainability and social sustainability. I mean, the market to which you in your highest purity have just made that... I was going to say elegia, maybe elegia, because it's already coming out, it's proven incapable of saving the planet and seeking a minimum of well-being for most of its people. We're in another cycle. Neoliberal globalization itself has changed its phase. I used to say –like I've said ever since this atril – that when a football team wins a world cup, everyone tries to imitate their style of play: if Brazil wins, everyone wins the ticchi-taca; and if Italy wins, everyone wins the cliqueccio. It is true that in recent years, in this liberal globalization, paradoxically, China is the country that is taking the cat to the water. And without entering into any other kind of geopolitical discussion at such a delicate time as this, it is proving that the role of the State in planning - not taking it to 100%, nor a fully planned economy, but a State that marks strategic lines and invests and that knows how to mark also private sectors what those strategic lines are, - is far above the States that are entrusting it all to a market that is neither able to provide us with a mask when we need it nor to guarantee us vital energy for our subsistence of our economic fabric at a reasonable price. You, I think, as a citizen, will admire or be from the school that admired Macron as a great European ideological reference. Macron, who has money in Renault, for example, who is Renault's main shareholder, who is saying that the electricity market will have to intervene. That is, the two (...) neoliberals are falling and better to be updated. The Next Generation itself, without going too far, shows that the economy has to be oriented, that efforts have to be concentrated, because the market itself is failing in a stupendous way. And we don't do... We brought a motion today. Our political activity goes far beyond that. Among other things, we are criticized for proposing impossible things and so on. I will only mention a contribution by Euskal Herria Bildu to the economic development of this country. Within the framework of this year's budgetary agreement, the R & D agreement is the most important R & D agreement ever signed in this country. Because it is an agreement that, year after year, proposes, proposes, and commits itself to increase the public budget by 12% to R & D, and marks, for the first time in history, 3% as an objective to be achieved. And he puts it in the year 2028. R & D. We could talk about other things, but also, apart - as was said - from preaching, we also know how to give wheat and move on in other ways. But this is important. Zuk... Arruebarrena jauna, eskerrik asko tonuagatik; izan from the didaktikoa bear, eta horrella taste eztabaidatzen da. Baina hasi zara zurre exact interbentzioa Gamesa ez doala inora, éta asko kezkatu nau. Badakizu zergatik? Esaldi hori pilo bat alditan entzun doubela, baina, Gamesaren ordez, Euskaltelekin. It's gold, klaro, zer gerratazzen yes? Well, it happens one of the worst things that can happen to you in life: predicting something bad and being right. There is no word or phrase that sounds worse than "I told you, I told you, I told you." Sure, I told you, I told you. And I told you, but we've run out of Euskaltel. And what we don't want is to get out of Games. Porque, with the Basques at first, we were told: "Euscaltel's not going anywhere. Don't worry, we'll sell the net, but it's nowhere." Don't worry, the funds will be in, but it's not going anywhere. Don't worry, he's going to the Burst, but he's not going anywhere. Don't worry, there's no problem with zero." Don't worry, don't worry, don't worry, don't worry, and what I've said Euscaltel − first, diluted, in a homeopatic way, and it's hard to know where Euscaltel is too. We want a strong industrial public. That's not communism. That, a few years ago, existed in all the states of Europe. And we believe that this sector must not be the whole of the economy, but in some companies to defend it. There's a human factor. You have been at fairs, for example, machine-tool, and you will see that, first you are taught the machine, that you are proud of the microns to which you can make the cut, for example. But then they take you to a coffee, you get a coffee, they take out your ham and explain how things are sold with a human factor, even in the industry there is a human factor. And there's a human factor in making decisions. And a company with roots and ties to the country is going to make a series of decisions that another company without in that same roots is not going to make. To the detriment, of course, of this country. We were talking about the big multinationals. You mentioned me Mercedes and so on. Volkswagen was now going to put a plant in Sagunto, but Volkswagen decides where to put the plant. And the first factories that make Volkswagen's electric car, or by chance, are going to be done in Germany. By the way, Volkswagen also has a public-owned company. Therefore, here, as we were saying, we are not asking to put ikurriñas in the frontispiece of the headquarters of the companies. Here we are seeking to ensure through a series of measures that in the ownership of key and strategic companies for our country - because of its size or sector - there is a presence that tries to compensate other centrifugal forces and make those companies have a more social action in their day-to-day and more rooted in the country when it comes to taking...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u62	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u63	... its management and investment decisions. That's possible dugu hori of her, eta jarraituko dugu eztabaida honekin. As many times as Mafalda said she didn't like soup. I mean, as many times as they put soup on us, we'll talk about rooting, every time the rooting is in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u64	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours. [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...we'll talk about rooting every time the rooting is in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gil, I have to start with you, too. Telling you that, of course, it is symptomatic that you talk about flexibility, talk about reducing labour conflict, talk about energy transition, but accompanied by competitiveness, that is, being more attractive and generating an ecosystem. Terms I have also heard from Mrs Tapia. And all that leads to deregulation. The part that I was transferring to you in my initial intervention, that sums up everything you say, because when you talk about reducing labour conflict, reducing workers' labour rights, and reducing collective bargaining. Yes, it's basically you that you're talking about, because if we don't also globalize rights, let's globalize rights, and we'll see, and we'll see if your speech is the same and where certain companies are displaced. So what you're talking about with your speech is to deregulate certain conditions that currently prevent the creation of this entry ecosystem of certain investment funds, which is all they claim to be, yes, uprooting, short selling, and becoming rich. That's all they're trying to do. And you say that's generating country, generating productive tissue, supporting SMEs, no one believes it. And besides, it is that you continue to believe, Mr. Casanova has told you, in that kind of automatism that the capitalist system has in order to be able to self-correct. And that has already been shown, but let us go, not only as a result of the last crises, but for decades, that it is not real, that it is not real, that you support deregulation, that is, because there are automatisms that compensate for the shortcomings of the system itself, and it is not real. Then, I don't know, it just seems to me that it's a little like dinosaurs contemplating their own extinction. Well, when I listen to him, in a way, it's a little what I get, and he talks about discos. Let me make a joke in this regard, why is it (?) Getting into a nightclub without paying for the ticket, without paying for the drinks, and taking something out of the box. So, that's basically your economic model with respect to investment funds, and of course, it's not ours. Then, Mr Arruabarrena said about the disjunctive between private banking and public banking, and he denounced the public banking in view of the examples that have taken place in the State, in the Spanish State. Look, the European Banking Authority, the EBA, not a Chavista group, has recently determined that the most solvent bank at European level is the public, it is the public. And I'm going to give you two examples of public banking that currently exist and that are in the EBA ranking regarding bank solvency in Europe. The German Development Bank, two in fact, the NRV and the KCV, which are development banks with an industrial portfolio that we would already like to have, I no longer say in Euskadi, in the Spanish State, and on the other hand, a Dutch one, which devotes part of its financing efforts to solar plates, industry and housing. Not here, here the model is wind megaplants in protected areas, and that's what you're telling us that we have to allow the passage and make entry conditions more flexible. I will not give you examples of the participation of companies, in this case the German State in strategic companies such as Volkswagen, which 12% of the capital of Volkswagen is from the State of Saxony. I mean, there is a model that doesn't even have to go to other latitudes, but in Europe itself, that we think it doesn't, I think, in its model, that it looks quite like Mr Gil. And as far as it is not possible that certain measures that we have put forward in the transactional by Mr Casanova, EH Bildu, and our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos, are not possible. A few months ago they also told us that it was impossible to uncouple the gas from the marginalist system, it was impossible. What's more, it was almost a communist measure. We have not had to enter the European Commission or Elkarrekin We can or EH Bildu so that suddenly the situation will cause certain people to change their whole ideological doctrine, if they have it, and suddenly decouple the gas from the system, if they finally do. Well, surely this will end up being possible, if we don't want the meteor to fall on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u67	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Casanova and Mr Soto for the attention they have given me in their speech, which I certainly do not deserve. I'm not lending... I am not going to go too deep into this debate of neoliberalism in the face of neo-communism, which I would love, I would have very much fun doing, but unfortunately I do not have time to go deeper, I only have five minutes, but I do want to clarify a few things just so that it is recorded. I'm not neoliberal, among other things, because I don't know what neoliberalism is. I've said before that I think it's just an insult, but I am... I'm a liberal. And liberal means that we are actually defending the market, not a deregulated market, Mr Soto, a regulated market. But we do not defend a state-owned and intervened economy. And of course, if your model is China, because I have to remind you that China has embraced communism, forgiveness, has embraced capitalism in its economic model; so, I do believe that the one who is not knowing what is going on there is you, because I think there are very few countries left that maintain a purely communist economic system, like the one you defend. Having said that, we do share the objective, I understand that we share the objective of retaining and attracting the maximum possible companies to Euskadi. That's what we agree on, isn't it? [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the objective, I understand that we share the objective of retaining and attracting the maximum possible companies to Euskadi. That's what we agree on, isn't it? In what we don't share, it's the way to do it. I mean, I don't agree, we don't share at all, that we have to do this by force. That we have to do it, forced companies to do what we want. We believe that this must be done in another way, which is the way to gain competitiveness. And we do think that Euskadi needs to make a qualitative leap in competitiveness. That is why the amendment by the groups supporting the Government does not seem sufficient. We believe that on this issue of competitiveness we are losing the train, and we have to make an important bet. And I would invite you, rather than making a continuous policy - as it is easily derived from your own amendment - to make a policy with a fundamental qualitative leap. Because we have everything, we have money to be able to do it. And I understand that there was also a will here to do so. From our point of view, here are our proposals, our humble proposals in case you want to use them. Otherwise, it's okay. But in any case, I think the debate that we have to say that focusing on this House is how we get to be more attractive for companies to stay and for companies to come to Euskadi; and so they can generate more wealth and more employment for all Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The socialist Basque, Mrs. Sanchez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u70	andrea: Me from the seat. Well, for our part, of course, as I said in my first speech, we are going to support the amendment to the whole signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and Basque Socialists. Because also the debate we are having here today is practically – and even in the amendments and everything – very similar to the one we had on 6 May 2021. I have already stated in my first speech what the reasons were for maintaining that position. And well, that's the one we're going to keep here today. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u71	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The word is yours, Mr. Farrenical patriots.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u72	Thank you. Well, I'm going to find out what neoliberal is, because the six years I've been here many times: "I don't know what neoliberal is." Well, neoliberal is the system that 50 years ago set in motion Thatcher and Reagan, which is low regulation, low state and low taxes. That's neoliberal, and you're neoliberal, it's okay. It's not an insult. Or liberal, as Damborenea said here, "I am liberal." Well, it's okay. We are not liberals, but neither are we populists. And the sun can't be covered with a finger, let's see. The closed economy paradigm equals happy citizenship, empirically does not work. Moreover, empirically just works backwards. Which doesn't mean that the economy has to be 100% open. The economy must be limited and conditioned to serve human well-being. That is clear to most of this House. But in this rampant populism in Europe, which advocates returning all production to the country, I am sure that Alternative for Germany, for example, will be very angry, because the Mercedes are made in Vitoria. He will say, "And why, being the Aryan race so productive, are they not made in Germany? If they don't even charge the Victorians little." Well, it's an equation in which we all win: the Victorians, 4,000 of them and Victorians, have jobs in Mercedes. The Germans win - because, among other things, they also sell us cars - and in the future the Chinese will also win because they will contribute to that European capital of Mercedes. Same with Marine Le Pen in France, they'll say why tyres aren't made in France. Mr Soto, decouple the price of gas from energy, that and very briefly, the PNV is already defending it, so we agree, there is no debate. And secondly, public participations, you say in Germany; that already exists in Euskadi. (...) have important public participations. And I say again, you just have to see the finkatuz background endowment chart. It is very likely that he will continue to ascend, I say again. I don't have any inside information, but, well, it's deduction. Mr Casanova, you are obliged to provide this country with a viable alternative. The opposition party, which is an alternative government, cannot propose six measures here and more than half are illegal. And the other half can't be made. And consider... because they carry an economic risk, as I explained before. They lead that economic risk to a systemic risk of system failure itself. I mean, with the pensions of the people very careful, because here you present a motion; well, the paper all endures. Then you come out here in the replica, you don't answer me. It doesn't detail what the model is. You are the country's second party, and you are obliged to have a solid economic and industrial model for Euskadi. You're bound to. Work on it for real, as a Basque citizen I am interested in the fact that the country's second party makes it clear in this area. We are trying to confirm today that the "−" which had been put in interpelation on the other day, and which has been discussed here many times. Rising isn't just capital. There are many things among us, each in its own sphere, and every one in its political domain, that we may endeavour to ensure or to ensure the root of the eroscals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bar Barbars. Mist didn't say a word. [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... the discussion is over. And we're going to vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nodemus-Adetz-Fercial corrections that have been signed by Anicate. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 46; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u74	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u75	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucaists at the same time. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 39; the opponents are 34; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-24.u76	So the integer correction has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two and forty-five in the morning.
