ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I remember the parliamentary Estatiliz Larrate, the spokesman's vote. First point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary team has made, in order to reject the campaign committed by the civil and Spanish police against the victims of the state. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Azuga, representing the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. It was a terrible bargain, described by Joše Argrei in the station before he died under torture. On February 13, 1981, the Spanish police tortured Joseph Arreg until his death. Since that day, the day against torture on the 13th of February, is a day of complaint in the Basque Country. It has been very severe, and thus we may describe the history, the relatation of the violence of the state in this country. It's a tragic, dramatic, terrible relatto, not yet made. Before Joxe Argree tortures killed several people in the Basque Country: Mercedes Ancheta, Vicente Lersudi, Juan Tomás, Jose María Quesada, Javier Escalada, Juan Jose the World, Antonio Goñi. After the Arrei, Stephen of Muruetatoi, Joser Azah, wide Michael, Juan Calvo Abill, High Cross, Xabier Calparfield. All these citizens were not overcome by torture. According to the report of the New House of Pa, 4.116 have been tortured in these three countries: 1.792, to the care of the civil Guard; 1.7885, that the Spanish police are responsible; There will be more, no doubt, but never less than they do. On the other hand, the security force of the state has produced hundreds of dead and wounded in these three provinces, a basic report on the watering of human rights in the Euskal case of so many experts, received from the several police officers the deaths of 90, 746 wounded, 73 dead, and 426 wounded by parapplic groups. All this universe remains illuminated and unrecognised for the day; for penal justice, the ordinary way, has looked on the other side. The Implementation scheme has been set to an effective strategy, investigations have not been made, authors have not been pursued. That's not what I'm saying. The Human Rights Court in Strassburg is being confirmed by day. The victims of torture performed this Sunday in favour of Joše Argree, the 13th of February. Looking to the Institutions, the victims of the Common-wealth, the victims of the torture, said: "we may safely confirm that we have passed negionism, that systematic practice, performed with complete impunity of torture, has already been the official truth." Victims of torture, victims of the State, said that their suffering was gradually becoming official. However, I believe that it is still too early to consider that the denial of the practice of torture and human rights violations by the State has been overcome. It is too early because the institutional recognition of the phenomenon of State violence has only scratched the surface, through Law 12/2016 on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Human Rights Violations in the context of politically motivated violence in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country between 1978 and 1999. This law that was passed in 2016, which was brushed in 2019 to accommodate the limits imposed by the Constitutional Court; this law that EH Bildu interpreted as a step, although still insufficient in its objectives and effects; this law hardly starts in its investigations, its deliberations and its resolutions; a law, an administrative procedure of recognition and reparation that, however, we see as having powerful enemies. We saw them here. They were in this law when we approved of this law. When the victims of the state were to be the leaders of that day, several members of the Civil Guard, National Police, and the corporate associations of the Border were here... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] Several members of the corporate associations of the National Police and the Border were here, and they developed their strategy here. Here they stood face to face with victims, to say to their face their pain, their suffering to lie. In truth, that there was no such thing as the state, its police, had no effect upon any harm: the victims have not been created. In this time of autocratics, don't worry, don't take responsibility. The terrible, tragic, dramatic events that we all know came here to deny these events. True, justice, observation, renunciation of memory, with their provocative attitude, with threatening gestures. That's not what he was doing. I'm afraid that's not the case. As we have recently known, these groups, corporate police lobbies, have launched a massive campaign to make fraudulent applications through a law precisely designed to recognize and repair their victims. No matter what legal credence they had sought for it; politically, the objective was obvious: to discredit, discredit, pervert this law and the mechanism it instituted to recognize and repair the victims of the State. They intended to sabotage it from the inside, to spin a nut in that denial strategy. To establish a false account that there was never a violation of human rights, violence, torture, terrorism by the State. In fact, police associations referred to the dosier agents and tutorials on how to make false requests. In the communication they assumed that the law was not "thinking to compensate public officials", but it gave them exactly the same: they intended to block a path that we see is just starting. It is true that the Baloration Committee which the law imposes has detected and withdrawn the demands of 500 of the fraud introduced by members of the Security Force. That answer, smart answer from the Baloration Committee, I think we should applaud. But it's not enough. It's not enough with a purely administrative answer. We don't have to lay that burden or all that work on the Baloration Committee. And he thought that it was necessary for a political, institutional statement, to prevent this maneuver, to reject such a campaign, and to accuse this negionism, which lies behind us with perfect firmness, that the authors of this maneuver should not consent to see them, and that we would not accept them nor allow them to do so again. The process opened by this law must be defended because it is still too fragile. Indeed, according to agencies that have already reported assistance to victims of the State: "Only 35 cases have been recognized, we see that it does not start. There are people who applied and died later." Time plays against the victims of the State and it plays against this law, which still has to prove its validity and usefulness in its entirety. I do not say this: Professor Jon Landa - a thousand times recognized in this Parliament - expressed his concern because: "these laws in Nafarroa and Euskadi, already limited in themselves, are full of obstacles. The freckles on the road have been unceasing, even before birth." The professor says: "They have intervened and resources will be put in place against them, to stop their development; the information to complete the dossiers does not arrive, because they continue hidden because they do not want to get out of the darkness". Hau from the panorama; ez nik esandakoa baizik eta ea esspectu osoko den Jon Landak esanda. This way of confession and observation, which the law spreads, is imperfect and narrow, but we must defend it. From this universe of the thousand victims above mentioned, only 700 victims have approached this law with hopes of receiving truth and attention. Many victims have not yet come near, although they occupy all conditions. And this, as well as this law, is also a small failure. Maybe they won't come near, they don't extend their request, they don't know it. Other victims, perhaps, from fatigue have long since lost hope. Perhaps the victim of the state, tortured... For not opening up the wound they have. Perhaps from distrust, from despair, from the treatment they have suffered from the institutions, and from their constant failure to the institutions. So today the agreement was important, the agreement we had, to send a loud message to these victims. To those who asked for confession, to protect him. To encourage those who have not yet asked for confession, in the future, to ask for the future, when the time is expanded again. And we understand that we understand to say to those who will never ask, because the institutions have come too late. And let us go on our way to the victims of the state. Let us send word of hope to the victims of the state: we are with them, and are going to make confessions and observations worthy of them. Last Sunday, February 13th, the victims of torture, the victims of the state, announced the following: "It is not enough to make laws; We hope that our injuries are responsible for this country will be bold enough to confess the damage inflicted by thousands of people... "... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... "you must be sensible. We hope that our creditors will have courage enough to confess the damage they have inflicted upon thousands of persons in this country; we hope to have a democratic maturity sufficient to prevent the political responsibilities of a state's violence; and we expect even from the institutions here that we may expect to have the predominance of rights which some people suffer." The victims of the state have been humiliated, insulted at so many times, often the second victims, because they are secondary. Today, we hear the interpenetration we're doing, and I want to tell them that we're not going to keep quiet on this staff. I hope today that we offer some dignity to the victims of the state which we have obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u2	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u3	Good morning, president, lehendakari, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. As always, the consensus does not know what it will be, I suppose that will be what it is distributing in the House at this time. There is certainly no consensus, Mr Arzuaga. There is no consensus, because there is a majority, I suppose, of signatories of an initiative that I do not know, because it has not reached me, it has not given me time to read because they were distributing at the moment when I came out to the rostrum. But, in any case, what I do have to say is something that I have already said more times and that we have said more times, as always. Yours is an initiative that seeks again the contempt, the dishonor of the forces and security bodies of the State, something you try to do, but you will never achieve. In other words, the perpetrators of the police and legal defeat of ETA, the greatest victims of terrorism as a group, have room in all areas in which the rights of the victims are repaired and where human rights violations are recognized, all have room for members of the State security forces and bodies. They are victims, have been victims of the totalitarian project of ETA, are victims of terrorism, are victims of violence of persecution and are fundamentally victims of the violence of persecution and political motivation that has occurred in this country. The people, the police and the police have been the fundamental victims of what has happened in this country. They have also been victims of misuse of State resources by some institutional and police officials, as well as victims. For this reason, the first is the tribute of our parliamentary group, of the People's Parliamentary Group-Citizens to so many civil guards, national police, ertzainas, municipal police and members of private security, for what they have given for this country for its freedoms and for its citizens. It is unfair, but above all it is impossible, that an initiative by Mr Arzuaga can change the victims for those responsible. Above all, it is a sarcasm that those who have a history of hatred and terror try to exploit the means given to them by the rule of law to discredit those who are today the guarantor of our security and the enforcement of laws by capital letters. Kalejiras against EH Police Bildu are already common. But in the last few days they have had an even more radical expression. Mr Rodríguez and Mr Arzuaga have distributed the papers against the Ertzaintza and against the police, the state security forces and bodies. Mr. Rodriguez, attacking our Autonomous Police and accusing him of not being a democratic Police, and today Mr. Arzuaga projecting once again his disqualifications on the entire police force. This is already part of that permanent chorus, of that hate-filled music that he so well tunes. It is clear that there is a law, Law 12/2016, on the Recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations in the context of politically motivated violence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country between 1978 and 1999, which says what it says, and which does not exclude the police from considering the applicability of the law, does not exclude it. Article two of the law states who can take it in order to be recognized as victims. In other words, the scope of that law also opens up that possibility to those who, as police officers, were persecuted, threatened and harmed by them and their families. And I'm going to remind you of article two. Article 2 states: "For the purposes of this law, human rights violations produced in a context of politically motivated violence shall be deemed to have occurred with the concurrence of the following conditions – and it says – to have occurred in a context of politically motivated violence between 78 and 99". There they acted and there were the members of the forces and security forces of the State persecuted, threatened, there they were. "That it was carried out in a context of action or action for political motivation, and in which it could have participated... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... "It has been carried out in a context of political motivational action or action in which either public officials, in the exercise of their functions or outside the exercise of their functions, or individuals acting in a group, alone, individually or in an uncontrolled manner, could have participated". And, then, c), "that, as a result of the violation of human rights, an affection has been caused to the life, physical, psychological, moral or sexual integrity of the people". Tell me if the members of the security forces and bodies of the state, of the Ertzaintza are not within this qualification, of this category, that you can access... that can be integrated into this area of law enforcement. You tell me. And if they have not done what they were able to do and what they have legally wanted to do. Another thing is that they were refused. We will see the way this judicial process can go. And it's clear, the laws say what they say. And interpretations are interpretations. No malicious interpretations, as Mr Arzuaga puts on his initiative. No, no, They're legal interpretations. And that's why there are legal claims. Basically, Bildu's initiative recognizes that the law... because it does, Bildu's initiative, if you read it, recognizes that the law opens the way to implementation... And although it disqualifies it as malicious interpretations, in substance the initiative assumes that they are interpretations, it assumes that there is scope for legal interpretation. And, of course, we are convinced that there will be it in the courts. Well, it is clear that in the face of this initiative of police contempt, of Ertzaintza contempt, of the Civil Guard contempt, it is quite clear that my group, as it has done, is to propose an amendment of its entirety. And before I read it or explain it, I do want to tell Mr. Arzuaga one thing. He has no respect, of course, for the police, for the Civil Guard, for the Ertzaintza, for..., well, for the people who are dedicated to security. But in this plenary that passed the amendment of Law 12/2016 were members and representatives sitting there, were members and representatives of a democratic police. Don't be fallacious, don't disqualify her, because you've done it here, you've done it in the argument of your initiative. I know that it bothers you that there are members of a democratic police force and that they live with us. And I know you're bothering him. And what we have to say is that it was you, it was you, who tried to manipulate your presence to accompany your speech. And he continues to manipulate his presence to accompany his speech, today's. But, well, let me be clear... We've done our tribute before, and that's where it is. And I wish you would come many times more to this house, because you will be welcome, at least, I don't know if with consensus, but for us. I have to say, in conclusion, that my group has tabled an amendment in its entirety. It was quite clear that the initiative presented a complete amendment. And we do so by saying that the Basque Parliament should recognise, in accordance with international law and jurisprudence, the recognition of the right of all victims, of all victims, of all victims, to truth, justice and reparation for human rights violations. Also in the context of politically motivated violence in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country referred to in Law 12/2016 of 28 July, without any discrimination due to their official relationship or their membership in the security forces and bodies or their political or trade union militancy. That is, in this law of violence of political motivation they are all. And they are because they are not excluded in this law, that is, they are. And that would have to be recognized. It seems that the opposite will be acknowledged. And, as a second point, something that is clear: "The Basque Parliament urges the Evaluation Commission to work on the basic premise that reparation programmes must ensure that victims are treated on an equal footing and in a consistent manner, without stigmatizing or excluding any of them and without the right of all victims to adequate, effective and prompt reparation being conditioned by the political context or the will of political groups or authorities". This is part of our second point in the whole amendment, but then I will tell you who wrote it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínez-Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u5	Yeah. Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. This discussion ought not to be repeated, but, owing to reality, we have the discussion in our hands again. The abuses made in the state and in their name ought to be abused, and to be opposed to those who deny this reality from a democratic institution. And the agreement we sign today, between four parliamentary groups, the tool for resisting it, I think, may be effective. I am going to say that we are facing a debate, not by initiative, but by substance, surrealism. But, no, we are talking about a debate on human rights and the dignity of the victims of police abuse and of the victims of the State and of State apparatuses or of persons who have acted on their behalf or who have been protected by it. Moreover, we do so at a time when those same people have carried out a mass petition campaign to the Police Abuse Assessment Commission, which was carried out to the contrary, to protect the victims of police abuse. It seems to us, and we pointed out this in our amendment, that it is a perverse and spurious use of one of the few tools we have developed as a democracy in Euskadi and in the Spanish State to try to recognize the victims of the grave human rights violations perpetrated by the State apparatuses... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... democracy in Euskadi and in the Spanish State to try to recognize the victims of serious human rights violations perpetrated by State apparatuses. Perpetrators against anonymous persons who exercised, for example, only their right to demonstration. Perpetrated against the political dissent abertzale, communist, of the left, republican or of any other kind; citizens who were exercising their right to political participation, and also many who only passed through there. An orchestrated campaign, of which at first we thought it was about 300 applications, and we have seen more than 500 applications. We are also pleased that the Commission for the Evaluation of this Law has refused one by one. And a Commission of Evaluation that has taken into account one thing, which has not been said here, that is that logically the victims of ETA terrorism are protected by the laws of victims of terrorism. We are talking about an orchestrated campaign, because it has been so, by the civil pro-guard association and many others, and also by some political forces. That is why today we find and denounce in this House this attempt to sabotage and hinder from within, from within, the only mechanism, one of the only mechanisms we have at present to compensate the victims of police abuses of political motivation. He said that, since it could not have been otherwise, the Evaluation Commission - which is made up of well-known experts and which we all believe - has unanimously decided not to accept these applications. These requests are yet another step on a boycotted path to the recognition and reparation of victims of police abuse, which we were able to see through this work of the Constitutional Court and the need of this Parliament to reform that law. And we also had it, yes, we had it in that debate where the institution was not, Mr. Barrio. We and we from Elkarrekin can United Left respect the institution. It was an organization with a very concrete ideology, which is negationist, it is negationist of torture and police abuse. And for me, what I experienced that day is an attack on this Parliament, on the Basque Parliament and on all the victims of police abuse. Victims who..., the victims of police abuse, in the words also of a member of the Evaluation Commission, have for too many years been dragging away the forgetfulness, the lack of recognition and even, in many cases, an unfair, and in this particular case, stigmatization and denial of their very existence. Until the adoption of this law, these victims did not have any rules that recognized or repaired them. Torture, ill-treatment, illegal detentions - committed by public officials or private citizens who have received the support or acquiescence of the State or public authorities - unclarified, and persons who have suffered without their legitimate right to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And we say again, as we said at the time, all the limitations of this law. That is why we also had the attitude we had before it, but at the moment it is up to us to defend it and defend its just application. Because this is not a question, it is not a question of denying one victim to recognize the other; I believe that this Parliament recognizes all victims of both state terrorism and ETA terrorism or any other political violence. But it is true that the laws do not recognize them equally. Therefore, the only way for victims of police abuse to have minimal recognition by the public authorities right now is through this law, and therefore it is up to them to defend it. Although, as Jon-Mirena Landa also said, speaking of this law, these laws have lowered the standard of justice, because there will be no individual responsibilities, leaving aside the criminal justice side. Thus, equal and just treatment of victims disappears from the root, since only partial reparation and truth can be made. Even so, we defend it vigorously from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida that we must defend this law, that we need to do a lot of pedagogy and that this Parliament should vote in support of it and also improve the same law and provide it with sufficient means, which is also what we ask in our amendment. The Commission should be given resources, more resources, as in its own report to the Commission on Human Rights themselves, they themselves requested. They asked for human resources and resources; and they also asked for something else, which was certainly not in the hands of this Parliament, but that this Parliament should also say something, which is a collaboration with all the structures of the State to provide the information necessary for the work of the Evaluation Committee, because - I quote again from a member of the Evaluation Committee - "it does not seem that sufficient resources are being put in place, it does not seem that it is in the public centre and therefore it does not seem that it is being managed with total seriousness and with the highest priority". And that was done by denouncing the difficulty in accessing information about the cases being dealt with and evaluating them in the Evaluation Commission. That's why we introduced a correction that was very close to the original initiative, because we have to protect and confess the duty of the board, but also because it has to increase its resources and personalities. We also insisted that the work of cooperation between institutions and institutions should be improved. And that's probably more work for the Basque and the Spanish Government. And lastly, we must confess to all the victims, and to do this the defusion campaigns, the campaign for pedagogy, are indispensable campaigns for sensilization. And I'm done. I say again, we need to go beyond the agreement we have reached. And I recommend that you read Recommendation No. 7 of the annual report of this Evaluation Committee which was presented in this Parliament. This Commission expresses the relevance, convenience and need to extend its scope of action in the future... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Committee on Evaluation which was presented in this Parliament. This committee expresses the relevance, convenience and need to extend its scope of action in the future to different violations relating to life or integrity, and to a longer time frame. All this in justice and in line with the principle of progressiveness that entails the constant search for the extension of protection under international human rights law. That's why we introduced this correction, and this is the day we're really glad that this half-way between four parlamentary groups will be tested in the name of justice, truth, and observation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u6	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u7	Thank you, President. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. Lehendakari, vice-lehendakari, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. Well, today we are discussing an initiative by EH Bildu, whose tenor – I read textually – "plans to reject the campaign against the victims of the state carried out by civilian guards and police in Spanish". And all this stems, as you know, from the submission by some of these members of these State security forces of applications to obtain the declaration of victims under Law 12/2016 of 28 July for the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations in the context of politically motivated violence in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country between 1978 and 1999. The first thing to say is that, historically, which is the Socialist Party of Euskadi, the Socialists have been working for decades on reparation and justice policies towards the victims of all violence and terrorism. And we have always done so in coherence with the democratic struggle we waged against the totalitarian project represented by ETA. And following our impetus to all those laws, both state and Basque, that covered the thousands of victims of terrorism, the rule was added that was lit up from the Basque Government in the Executive presided over by the lehendakari Patxi López, recognizing the victims of police abuse. So the recognition and commitment of the Basque Government to the recognition of the victims has been and is a reality since that IX legislature in which the first decree, 107 of 2012, was passed, then led by the Department of Counsellor Idoia Mendia, Councillor of Justice at that time, for the reparation of victims of police abuses committed between 1960 and 1978. We're talking about police abuse. And it was this first step, as stated in the preamble to the law we are talking about today, that had a limited temporal scope and left for a later moment the extinction of that policy of accompanying the victims. And this step is consolidated by the adoption by this Parliament of in the legislature X of this law, and also in the legislature XI of Law 5/2019, amending the previous one, and also the decree of development 20/2020, on the procedure of recognition. I am one of those who think that recognition of all victims strengthens the State; it strengthens and strengthens the rule of law, and therefore it has been necessary - say what they say - to solve all those difficulties that arose in relation to the norm. And that was done from a shared conviction, both by the Government of Euskadi and the Government of Spain, of the need to provide legal certainty for the whole process. And finally, an important and expressly endorsed work was done by the Constitutional Court, which is ultimately what allows this rule to continue to function as it does. And, at present, after all these legal vicissitudes and the transfer of resources that this law has had, now, and with the approval of this development decree, this law is working with full and absolute normality. It is functioning in the Valuation Commission, which is made up – as everyone knows – of historians, psychologists, forensic doctors, jurists, etc. And it is this committee that is responsible for assessing the status of victims of the cases that arise. And he's doing it at full performance. In fact - as Mr Martínez has already said - the first annual report was presented last June. So I can certainly say that all institutions work in a coordinated and complementary way, in order to provide redress mechanisms for all victims and victims of violence. But this comprehensive and coherent look at the defence of human rights and support for those who suffered their violation must be made with attention to the particular nature of each of the phenomena, in order to avoid unnecessary doubts, confusion and confusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to create different spaces for moral and material redress for the various victims who are competing, so that each of the victims contains the most accurate and accurate recognition of the characteristics of the injustice he suffered. The fact that in a specific procedure, such as, in this case, the procedure for victims of police abuse and the recognition as victims, requests have been made by members of State security forces and bodies and have not been accepted, only means that the Evaluation Commission considers that they do not fall within the legal framework of this law. But this does not mean that they are not entitled to compensation under Law 29... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...considers that they do not fall within the legal framework of this law. But this does not mean that they are not entitled to compensation under Act No. 29/2011 of 22 September 2011 on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, or under the Basque Act No. 4/2008 of 10 June 2008 on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism. Mr. Barrio, there's a cover. And, therefore, in what I said and ratified it is that, today, both Spain and Euskadi have sufficient and ordered legislation, mechanisms, tools and resources to respond to all those who have suffered the unjust outburst of violence. And also, it's very important, because we're talking about memory, we're talking about recognition. And, in this regard, in the area of recognition, the recent creation of the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism, here in Vitoria-Gasteiz, in which the Government of Spain, in collaboration with the Basque Government and with local institutions, promotes memory and respect for the victims of all the violence that has taken place in our country. So, the Basque Socialists confirm our commitment to the rights of truth, justice, memory, reparation and solidarity that correspond to the victims: to all victims, to those caused by ETA, to those caused by the LAG or by any other group of this kind, and, of course, to the victims of police abuses. But, all this, without any kind of equality or exclusion, and rejecting absolutely any theory, any theory that seeks to justify or contextualize any form of terrorism or violence. And that's where we need to focus. And, ladies and gentlemen, the original proposal did not focus there. It didn't focus on the victims, it didn't put in the law, it didn't put in the agreement that it meant to have in the law, that law that you, EH Bildu, collaborated on your approval with your abstention. So, that is why we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, which I believe we have managed to compromise and which in itself means a matter of congratulating ourselves and which has an impeccable literality. And in that amendment, what we are collecting is what you all have there, and that is that the Basque Parliament reaffirms its commitment to the rights to truth, justice and reparation that assist all victims. Consequently, the Basque Parliament rejects any attempt to distort this law. Finally, Parliament supports the work of the Evaluation Committee and urges it to improve the situation of resources and material means. But I wanted to keep talking about where the focus of the original initiative was, Mr. Arzuaga. You didn't put the goal, the focus on the goal, the right object; you put the focus on the whole ideological mantra. You wanted to come here to talk about State violence, not violence by authorities or personnel at the service of the State, which is not the same. Because it's the same as saying that the Basque people and ETA were the same, right?, because it was on behalf of who was acting ETA and who wanted to defend. And I am a member of the Basque people, and he has not defended me, nor in my name has he ever done anything. I mean, I think we need to have clear questions. And this initiative, at the time, in the original presentation, did not defend the victims; it did actually defend that mantra that you think will help you justify things that are not justifiable. Because I believe that, in fact, this amendment, now, does put the target on the victims. And those victims, who are protected by law, are here recognized with this amendment. And this amendment, in itself, has an intrinsic value on its own, because we have managed to reach an agreement. But this agreement, unfortunately, is not enough; it must be accompanied by other pronouncements, by other absolutely necessary steps...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u8	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u9	Okay, president. If you want, I'll finish. And if not, I'm still on the next shift; as I prefer. Anyway, thanks for the extra time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, vice president, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Although it seems a lie, this discussion today is to make a noise in favor of a law approved in 2016 by the Parliament. The legislative ought once more to defend a law against the attacks of either of them, and it is not the first. The 2016/12 Law, from the very beginning, has been a difficult journey. He was obliged to face several obstacles, obstacles, and attacks, from the moment when the first preparation was announced. The abuse of the power of the state, or the abuse of police violence, produced by the illegal use of human rights, has never been an easy way of observing the victims. For years, when the victim had been silent or denied, we began to observe on the 2012, difficulty; the appeals, the decrees, the changes of the law... It's happened all sorts of things this way of observation. But what has happened after that? To acknowledge and observe these victims, in some particular persons and political parties, plainly and distinctly. We can put on the mask as we please, but it's true and it's the resurrection... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... clear and clear. We can put on the mask as we please, but it is the saint and the heir: some groups have denied or underestimated the privileges of human rights, silenced the victims, and finally excluded their rights. And in this case, by false reason of the Common-wealth, in other cases, by politicall ends, or Liberty. And the cases which have been brought to this dispute today are placed in this context. By means of political and professional societies at the end, hundreds of petitions were presented, which are illegally excluded, to prevent the legal development of the law. I do not say, that all solicitors have done it amiss; we know that some have done it by faith, led by some, or by some, against this law, and by those who have been driven against it, and by those who have been against the trial. These petitioners, at least, have been victims themselves, and the just victims, or the persecutions surrounding them. And like a victim, they have all our solidarity and support and confession. But this law was not made to confess the victims of the victims, and they know very well the motives of this campaign, as well as you, Mr. Barrio. For this purpose there were formerly a law of the same nature, namely 2008/4 of the Basque Parliament, or other laws which are in the state. The 2016/12 law has another end, and it's obvious which one of them had it in the articles of the law. And it was also evident that in different parliamentary disputes of the law. This law is not directed to the victims of the two, but to the victims of the rights of men who have suffered. And the law prescribes two precise conditions: that one had happened in a state of political motive violence... Yes, Mr. Barrio, that's right... but two, that should happen in the acts of unlawful Repression, if the Publique Officers participated in their Offices, or outside their offices, or in the community, or in private, or in private, or in private, without any control. This law is to observe the unjust injuries inflicted by the public servants of the state; it certainly puts them in such a position. And yet it was noticed in the parliamentary discussion of the law. The Basque Parliament did not pass this law to protect the victims of terrorism in general or of ETA in particular, no. These victims already have their own regulatory framework set out in Law 4/2008 and in State laws on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism. And they also have for many years a wide range of public policies that give them coverage and protection. The will of this law is to protect those human rights violations that originate in the intervention of public officials or private individuals, who in some way have had the authorization, support, acquiescence of the State or public bodies. As you are well aware, Mr Barrio, this law was also a result of the impetus of this very Parliament, which in June 2011 also adopted, in that case also with its vote, a non-law proposal that literally urged the Government to continue to develop policies of recognition and redress for victims of human rights violations caused by abuse of power or unlawful use of police violence. I repeat, abuse of power or unlawful use of police violence. It is, therefore, a sarcasm that more than 400 public officials claim to be recognized under a law that seeks precisely to protect victims of police abuse. It's like when you start the Creed by Pontius Pilate, and this ends up being the dead and buried. Because it is true, Mr Barrio, that in the wording of the letter given to Article 2.2(b) of Law 12/2016, the requirement of the participation of official staff is not an inexcusable requirement. But we read the Creed from the beginning. This is precisely what the drivers of this claim campaign have been trying to hold onto. And you yourself in today's speech, also admitting that rape is the result of individuals acting in groups or in isolated, individual and uncontrolled ways. But they do, too, by obviating the more or less immediate connection that the law clearly and meridianly establishes between the act of the victim, whether or not a public official, and the activity of the public authorities and the State. If this connection is lost, therefore, as the promoters claim, as you claim today to be the spokesperson for the promoters, the scope of the law is broadened and the object of regulation is completely blurred. In short, it is being violated, you are also violating the scope and purpose of the law today, and the will of the legislator is being seriously violated. The Government has therefore acted correctly in denying applications and defending the spirit and letter of the law. To defend, in the end, the will of this Parliament and of the citizens it represents. We should therefore not be entangled in the trap of those who wish to prevent recognition and reparation to the victims. Too long they have been waiting to see their rights to truth, justice and reparation satisfied. This law, it is true, does not respond to all these rights, as some remain outside our jurisdictional framework, but allows for progress in all of them in a gradual process of recognition and reparation, which, despite the obstacles that some want to continue to impose, we are determined to continue. That is why we have today signed a compromise amendment which, with a broad consensus, represents the vast majority of this Parliament; therefore, the vast majority of this society. It's about the funk of the Law. And that's what it is, we have no doubt about it. But to defend and execute the law. And that's what we're... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... and there is no doubt about it, whilst we are to defend and execute it. And that's what we're doing, and that's what we're gonna do. Don't let anyone doubt it. Because he owes it to all the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A few weeks ago, we learned the details of the report on the impact of ETA terrorism on agents of State security forces and their families. That report came to recognize that they had been somewhat forgotten, that the treatment they had received was not that received by others who had suffered violence from the criminal gang and its environment; that was, that they had been treated in a discriminatory manner. Almost at the time, EH Bildu undertook a campaign of harassment and harassment against the Civil Guard and the National Police. Its reference newspaper referred to the agents of both bodies, such as those who tortured and killed; on the whole page, in addition, without blush, insisting on this obscene victimism of those who really kidnapped, tortured and killed. Since then it has been a recurring theme in the media related to the evil so-called abertzale left, supported also by other slopes and dependent on Basque nationalism, in which it accommodates characters who in their opinion articles practically come to insist on that disgusting "something will have done". In this context, information on a certain number of officers of the Civil Guard and the National Police who would have applied for assistance under Law 12/2016 comes to light. All applications rejected by the relevant Evaluation Commission. Gara turned it into the news of the century, adorning it with sane articles of opinion, each more malicious. A media campaign from which the Ertzaintza has not been saved, and which culminated this Saturday with a concentration of nostalgic terrorists in the police station of the Bilbao National Police. Pure strategy of harassment and destruction, the executioners and their unconditional becoming themselves victims of the oppressive State. Does that ring a bell? We do. And this is what is really in Bildu's initiative, the attempt of those who do not yet renounce violence, of those who resist delegitimizing their use for political purposes; what is now being politically motivated violence, ladies and gentlemen. To point out with his accusing finger those who fought against ETA so much and lost so much, while they caress their executioners, the real bad ones, at the origin of a huge suffering that has not yet been cured. Chapter I of the general provision, it is clear, always refers to victims of politically motivated violence, whether exercised by public officials or individuals acting in groups individually. It says so textually. And how do we refer to the people who suffered in their flesh or in that of their close beings the violence with which ETA and its environment intended to impose their particular political vision, their commitment to independence and against Spain? Aren't they victims of political motivation? Now, with the exception of the People's-Citizens Group, the rest of the formations represented in this House seem to give good cause for the alleged ill intention of those who have applied for aid and been denied them. Something we've never supported since Vox. And they do so without stopping to think that the mistake is part of the legislator himself; as long as its objective is to differentiate ETA victims from others, as it seems to be clear from what has been heard in this Parliament today. When is it expected that the Basque Government that so much demands memory, dignity and justice - will have the delicacy of dedicating one day of the calendar to pay tribute to all those escorts, inertzainas and members and State security forces who have been victims of ETA? Are their lives not as important, or more important, than those of the victims of torture? Aren't they worthy of economic and social recognition? Against this disgusting claim that Bildu brought us today there will be no anti-democratic cord, right? All of you continue to debate and agree with those who continue to legitimize ETA violence, because they continue to do so inside and outside this House...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u14	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u15	That is true Basque democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u16	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing to the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collectors has the word. Mr. Arzuga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u17	Mrs. Gallastegui, you surprised me. Having an agreement, you blame me for strategy or ideological mantra, and I want to ask you what is yours? if to say that a few rotten apples were the ones that generated 5,000 tortured, 200 dead and 1,000 wounded according to reports from his own Government; a few, some uncontrolled, or if really to do this, to do this, it took a whole structure of impunity to be able to put it into practice. And then they tell me, we're talking about police abuse; and I don't know why this intentionality or this insistence on reducing the gravity of the facts. The victims look at language, all the victims, indeed; and there is a rampant practice of terms and initiatives that aggravate certain victims. The victims of the State, of torture, of the various police forces tell us that what they suffered was more than abuse. And I wonder about the reluctance you have to recognize it this way; and you still call it police abuse to acts such as the bathtub, electrodes, blows to death; because it is not abuse in a state that makes the opponent disappear by means of living lime. It's something else, Mrs Gallástegui, they're more than abuse, and I don't know what problem you have to recognize it as what they are: victims of the state; no tapestry or mix-ups. Mr. Barrio, it is now going to turn out that the state security forces and bodies have no legal protection, and now they are going to be the real victims of discrimination. The point is that any law is right for them to divert it into preferential and exclusive treatment towards the victims of ETA. The Victims of Terrorism Act, exclusively for victims of ETA; the Historical Memory Act - which we are now analysing - to address the crimes of Francoism... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Victims of Terrorism Act, exclusively for victims of ETA. The Historical Memory Law, which we are analyzing now, to face the crimes of Francoism, you want to turn it into a law for the victims of ETA. The Law on Bad Police Abuse, a law for victims of ETA. And so, as with any other theme, the wild always ETA. And this law is not for them. And I even proposed, because I was willing to make the appropriate legal changes - with other groups, of course, if required - to introduce a more rigorous reading in certain legal terms, so as not to leave any crevices for us to be cut over there, what you claim, to end up sticking. He came to the Evaluation Committee, kicked out these applications and, for the time being, it seems that that would be enough. But, I say again, I am willing to change the law if the subsequent remedies that will be presented, that I do not doubt that they will, require it. There is a resolution agenda, there is a peace agenda and an agenda of coexistence, and there is a counter-involution agenda, of generating more aggravation, of generating more suffering, and an agenda that is marking it the far right. And to the far right, yes, a cordon sanitaire. That is why, when before, I do not know whether I have referred to the agreement as a consensus is because you are no longer expected to row in favour of peace and coexistence. You invoke that you pay tribute to the perpetrators of the most serious human rights violations, and you are thus portrayed as enemies of the recognition of the victims of the State and, therefore, an obstacle to peace and coexistence in this country, Mr Barrio. It speaks of the destabilization of the State's security forces and bodies. They do it alone, they do it alone with these kinds of initiatives. But if it has not been sufficiently clear to you, again, I repeat my deepest contempt for the negators of the violence that they themselves have exercised, which they themselves have perpetrated, who have stood before their victims in this very Parliament to deny their mere existence, to deny the violence that they have exercised against them and for which they are responsible. And you welcome them and tell them to welcome them to this Parliament whenever necessary. And that is precisely the question, Mr Barrio: whether the state security forces, their associations, their corporate unions, these lobbies, yes, of fascist court will safeguard the process of memory that we must carry out in this country. I sincerely believe that, in view of that agenda, we should have gone out earlier, and we should have gone out, moreover, more forcefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u19	Thank you, President. Good. I'm not an enemy of any victim. I want everyone to be satisfied: the victims of terrorism and the victims of violence and violations of rights in politically motivated contexts, the people who have suffered police abuse. I want everyone to be satisfied. But a pnl, or a compromise amendment, cannot change what a law says. He should have put forward the bill. He said he didn't seem to be going to squat, which is significant too. But the law says what it says. I am not going to repeat what I have already said in my first speech, in relation to the clarity in which Article 2 of that law is explained. And in addition, everyone has to know, because that is the case and because it has already been said, and because it is part of the debate on reparation and care for the victims. There are victims of political persecution who are not protected by the Victims of Terrorism Act; and, among them, many members of the State security forces and bodies. Many of us know personal situations that have been pitiful, terrible personally, with personal psychological consequences. But they have not been the victims of an attack, but have been the victims of that violence, that threat, that persecution. But everyone does. It has been thousands of people who have suffered from these syndromes, these sufferings, these situations. And that must be acknowledged. And that can be recognized. And that may be people who understand that this law and its literality welcomes them or can accommodate them. It seems that the Evaluation Commission does not. But you can understand that this context of political persecution of the victims, of those victims, of those people and of those members of the security forces and bodies, was in that political persecution that was taking place in this country. They were not victims of attack, but of persecution, and with serious consequences for them and their families. It's pretty clear. And it is that, moreover, when I referred to our entire amendment, it is that I did not refer to what the report says, in that report which you referred to, the annual report of the Evaluation Committee. The Evaluation Commission says: "This Commission is working on the basic premise that reparation programmes must ensure that victims are treated on an equal and consistent basis, without stigmatizing any of them, and without the right of all victims to adequate, effective and prompt reparation being conditioned, conditioned, by the political context, by the will, or lack thereof, of certain actors or authorities." For there are people who come to this law and to this valuation commission, because it legally interprets that it can be accepted. But it says so even to the Evaluation Commission. That is what the Evaluation Commission says. So, I think it is clear that there is room for action, and that the easy thing for you is to disqualify the state security forces. Well, the easy thing, and not the easy thing, and the fair thing, from our point of view, is to exalt them, to say them that they can understand that there is scope for interpretation in relation to that law, which says what it says, that you want to change it, or that you need to change it to say something else, because the laws when they want to say one thing have to be elaborated, and this law says what it says, and there is a margin for action, which we will certainly see in the courts. I, however, finally see with amazement how the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, in the end, give Bildu reason with the... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... how the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, in the end, give Bildu reason with the compromise amendment they have signed. Because, let us see, for the purposes of the parliamentary agreement, how will this agreement, this initiative, this debate, this compromise amendment be left? Well, it's going to be like this -- and it's a shame, really -- it's going to be like this. Title of the initiative: "In order to reject the campaign against the victims of the State carried out by Spanish civil guards and police". What a pity for the title! Because you have enshrined this title with the signing of the transaction. And, in a row, with that point number 2, (...?) to say, as that is the title, and as we are talking about this, that the civil guards and the national police have made this use, for we say: "As a result, the Basque Parliament rejects", that, right?, "rejects any attempt to distort the spirit and the letter of that law and shows its recognition and support to all the victims that it is legitimately meant to be". Well, it's meant for them. For they make the interpretation that it is destined for them, because it is in the law, because the law says it. And it's a shame and it's a real... I'm telling you, with this title, with this title... What Mr. Arzuaga was looking for: this title, the rest gave them the same, as long as it was approved. That was what Arzuaga was looking for: the title, the rest gave them the same. And you've fallen into the trap again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u21	I think this is the last intervention, the example of how this debate did not have to end, Mr Barrio. And you're sure that on the inside you think similar to what I'm thinking right now. There is a great deal of agreement from four parliamentary groups, which we would have liked to have had more content to strengthen the current law and this Evaluation Commission and, above all, to provide it with resources to do its work. Because, unfortunately, he's got a huge job ahead of him. But at this point, I must say again that the victims of police abuse, the victims of State terrorism, torture and ill-treatment are not Euskal Herria Bildu. And the victims of ETA are nobody's either. No one, Mr. Barrio. They are the absolute tragic history of our democracy both in Spain and in the Basque Country. And, therefore, as a Parliament, as a Basque Parliament, we should recognize all absolutely equally. And there's a disgrace, you have to say it like that, this law doesn't. But it's a minimum. Therefore, we will not tolerate any campaign, no campaign, against the law, the only law that victims of police abuse have to minimally be recognized and repaired. And their buts and other buts that we have heard today do, again, that revictimization and that feeling that hundreds of victims have, and that also in the reports of the Evaluation Commission it has been said, between victims of the first and victims of the second. We are therefore, of course, pleased that this transaction is coming forward, that we reject such campaigns. And I hope, I hope, that we will succeed, at least among the four groups that have signed this transaction, in improving that law and in empowering the Evaluation Commission. Because the debates such as today's or what motivated today's debate is to revictimize victims who have been forgotten for many years. And, moreover, after 1999 things have also happened in this country, and we therefore need to address the reform and improvement of that law. Therefore, and I was saying it in the first round, here did not come, did not come, the police, neither the Civil Guard, nor the Ertzaintza to follow that debate that you and that Mr Arzuaga also referred to, came a neo-fascist association that is against the reform of the law gag and that is its leitmotiv being against any progress in the field of human and democratic rights in the police system, which manifested itself against the prohibition of rubber balls, which manifest themselves against the fact that the minutes, as we were told yesterday in the report... in the presentation of the report (...?) of Goma, that police records when arresting a person are consistent. That is the association that came here to follow the debate. Not the police, not the Civil Guard, not the Ertzainta, which is neither yours nor mine, but is of the State. The State did not come here to follow that debate. Therefore, let us not cheat on the lonely, nor attribute ourselves to things that are of all and of all. And for a simple reason: eliminate any bad practice, if we can call it that, or any violence on the part of any structure of the state is the best way to support police work. Flaco favors these debates and such interventions to defend good work of the State security forces and bodies. I repeat, we are glad to have this deal. We'd like to have an arrangement much more concrete and more radical, but we appreciate the three points we've signed between these four parlamentary groups. And we will continue to defend for the future the work of this committee and the reform of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u22	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u23	Yeah. Thank you again, President. Mr Barrio, indeed, so many years in Parliament, so many years in Parliament, and you still do not know the value of the agreement, of a majority agreement, of majority support, moreover, to defend and strengthen... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... do you know the value of the agreement, of a majority agreement, of a majority agreement, moreover, to defend and strengthen a law emanating from this very Parliament?, does that have to do only because you did not vote for the law or only have value when you vote for it? In any case, it is a shame that comment, because you can defend many things in other areas and it would also be interesting for you to do so in this, and with the same vehemence as I thank you, but in this case you have wronged, at last, I believe that in an important way and it distorts, well, the value of Parliament as the seat of... finally, of debate, of... Mr. Arzuaga, this is not a question... this is not a dialectical question. And I think we will all agree that facts like violence and terrorism have condemnation, they have rejection, they have the frontal opposition that have absolute respect for human rights and democratic principles, right? And all that, in short, condemnation, opposition and reproach is without intensity, without any intensity, or has or does not have. This does not go with intensities, however much you try to carry this issue along that path. You, in short, I believe that the victims also have the right to reparation without intensities. They have it and point, and they have it the same without any... without being first or second, it doesn't go that way. And that's what we've been saying all along, I don't know which part they haven't understood. I told him before that we had been able to make an impeccable amendment that puts the victims in the spotlight, and in this law that protects them, and that in itself has a very important value in itself. I think it is a day to congratulate us on this agreement, but it is not enough, Mr Arzuaga, it is not enough. It has to be accompanied by another series of pronouncements, it has to be accompanied by other steps that are absolutely necessary, if we really want to develop a social pact on coexistence, that has a cross-cutting scope, that has an ethical meaning and that is based on a starting point that is inexcusable, and that is that never, ever, before, neither now nor in the future, there is no political reason for terrorism or any other violation of rights. We Socialists have said this many times in this forum, in public forums, we always say this, and I think this is the perfect time to insist that nothing, absolutely nothing, nothing, Mr Arzuaga, can justify, neither murder, nor extortion, nor kidnapping, nor absolutely nothing justifies any other violation of human rights on an equal footing. Whether it is good to think differently, whether it is good to achieve a certain political project, or it is good for a supposed and very misunderstood question of State, which has nothing to do with other things that you intend to generalize with that political mantra that you always resort to. And this is an ethical soil, Mr Arzuaga, this is an ethical soil that for us is irrevocable, and that ethical question is a differential factor and it is a legitimizing differential factor, and the rest is words. And, of course, these are words that still, and I'm very sorry, I haven't heard from you. And that ethical soil also has a lot to do with that right to the truth of all victims on the basis that that truth is an inalienable, imprescriptible right that we are so much talking about. So what I think is that you have to look inside, you have to look inside and wonder if you can talk without complexes, without blushing, without lowering your head, about the recognition of any... any human rights violations. We can, can you do it, of all people, can you do it of all people? I think after a (?) "I'm finishing the president," the road is very important, and they need to do it. And it is possible that other initiatives of remembrance, recognition and memory of a number of other victims may also be presented here in this Parliament. Here you also have the opportunity to see who has intensities and who has classifications in first and second. I urge you to have the same willingness to deal with the agreement and to acknowledge it today, because we are likely to make substantial progress on that path. Do it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u25	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, on many occasions the border between a skilled parliamentarian and a trier is fine and there is a risk of crossing it, and today you have crossed it. You did not honour your trajectory, and instead of being a fine Member of Parliament, you acted as a trilero, and you wanted us to stick something that we do not..., that we do not intend or that is going to happen, because if today, instead of the compromise amendment reached between the four groups, the amendment that you are submitting would have been approved under the same title as the one that is going to be adopted. So, that bad situation, that scumbag, that scumbag would also be attributable to you, and you know that that has neither feet nor head. Today has been a tricky debate on many sides. Because, Mr. Barrio, the law... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... Today has been a tricky debate on many sides. Because, Mr. Barrio, the law says what it says and not what you say it says, and you also know it perfectly well. What you do is add to a strategy of the extreme right, you who are also more right and more extreme every day in these cases, who seek to violate the will of this Parliament, and you also know what the will of this Parliament is, because you were rapporteur of this law. Moreover, I will remind you of what you were saying in the debate of this entire law in 2016, you were textually saying: "Call attention to the absence of this bill from those victims who (?) hypothetically to what is considered a context of political violence, they have suffered human rights violations as a result of the action of terrorists or street violence and have not been considered victims of terrorism on the other hand, as well as those threatened, victims of persecution by ETA, people who have suffered situations that have caused physical damage". A very similar account to what you were doing today, but which you claimed was not in the bill, you drew attention to the absence in the bill and in the subsequent law passed on these victims, because the will of the legislator was expressly that this bill was not intended for those victims who already had their normative space in other laws. Therefore, do not be a trilero in this parliamentary session, because we have silenced you, Mr Barrio. And if for as long as so many victims as you have pointed out have been unrepaired and unattended, not those who intend to repair Law 12 of 2016, but all those others that you have pointed out, what have you been doing so many years in the state government, so many years with absolute majority, to keep those victims without recognition and without reparation? Look, this has been a very complicated process – I said it in my first intervention – full of threats, attacks, resources, manipulations, and the very name of the law is an example of this. And that precisely makes this kind of situation of abuse, of manipulation of the law, possible. Because to get to the name, that name, as difficult to repeat as victims of human rights violations in a context of politically motivated violence, of course, one if you are going to talk about those victims and you have to say the whole name of the law, because you have run out of time. Precisely, that is one of the examples of the difficulties of this law, why we had to get to that name, what difficulties some had and still have to call things by their name, to call police abuse what is police abuse, illegitimate use of force to what is illegitimate use of force, which does not diminish at all the gravity of the issue. We are talking about victims of serious human rights violations, that is what we are talking about, victims of serious human rights violations that have been committed by police abuses or unlawful use of force. I don't think that's anything I've done or anything that shouldn't embarrass any Democrat, and we do, and I don't think that's worth it either the object or the content or the will of this law. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I have to admit that listening here today to Mr Arzuaga speaking in this Chamber against our police, it has proven to be truly embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Evaluation is objective and we believe that it is very doubtful. In addition, in Vox we doubt knowing that 11 people who are part of this committee are related to PNV and Bildu, and also close to the driving force behind the norm, Mr Jonan Fernández, so the objectivity in his decisions we know will be a chimera. But the most incredible thing that has happened here today in this House is that Bildu intends to teach us all about human rights, precisely them, whose moral ethics are at a level far below decency. That he came here today to discredit our bodies and security forces of the State, and that there are also parties that support this initiative, makes us aware of the moral chastisement of the democratic State in which we are in. A political party that does not condemn the violence and crimes of ETA. A political party that in its ranks keeps as heroes to statures and proteras. A political party that hates the law and order that prevails in our police. A political party that hides and supports the perpetrators of more than 370 still unresolved ETA crimes. Do you come to give us all lessons in human rights? Don't you feel ashamed? You do discredit our Basque society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u28	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. After discussion, we're going to vote EH Collect, together Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Socialists, and Eucatibertarian correction, we can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters,66; the opponents 7; the abscesssions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u29	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos-Nodemus as a parliamentary group of parliamentary factions, concerning the demand for a hospital in Durango. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Ms. González, who represents the Podes-Nozzer of the Animal Party, has the word in order to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u30	Thank you, chief of the table, all good days, guests. Tonight we'll talk about a desert. It's just that Durangnet's desert health, and I know how I feel about Durango... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... Tonight we'll talk about a desert. That's just how I live in Durangga's desert, and I know I live in Durango. A desert and a pandemic are two elements that transmit loneliness and impotence, and which, moreover, are combined because we all know what makes us feel. If we add to this the vulnerability and defencelessness with lack of listening and lack of proactive policies on the part of the institutions, because we meet neighbors and neighbors of Durangaldea angry, angry, disgusted, who do not understand that, year after years of protests on the street and complaints in the institutions, they have not been listened to and see how health care in our region is increasingly deficient and scarce. This crisis has accentuated the problems of the Basque health system. They were already dragging cuts, precariousness, temporality - one of the highest in the entire State -. And yet, this staff has shown a resilience and effort, which we have to thank, but not with applause, but by being on their side demanding improvements in their working conditions. But the proclamations of the inhabitants of Durangur are not new; they have been in the streets for years and years, and they have prayed for their proclamations in the institutions; pediatric service, more pediatrica, more pediatric care hours longer; first minding, more professionals and ratios lower; improvement of workers' conditions; constant attention, P.C., medical ambulance; direct transport to hospitals in reference; air quality; demography account, how much older, so pathologically, so much more medical attention. Osasun publiko éta unibertsala gure oinarririk serena da. Eta pandemic honek argi erakutsi digu, borondatea ez ez ezik, politica publikoa beharrezkoa her. But not any public policy, it is necessary that political will put people's care at the centre and guarantee rights such as health to generate equality. Because health is a personal good that can only be taken care of collectively. And, politically, we have a duty to take care of the collective, the common, the public. But what is Durangaldea's health status? Well, first of all, the precariousness of the pediatric service. Durango's pediatric service had four pediatricians in 2018. Of these four places, there are days that, for reasons, there is only one pediatrician. The service is given from Monday to Friday, from eight to three in the afternoon; and a pediatric emergency service, from three to five in the afternoon. The rest, the rest of the time, pediatric emergencies are attended to at the Cruces Hospital, although Durango has as its reference hospital Galdakao, but Galdakao there is no pediatric care or pediatric emergency service. 40 kilometers have to make our girls and boys... We have to make mothers and fathers to take our sons and daughters to pediatric emergencies in Cruces or Basurto. 2018an, oposiziotik egoera hori salatu genuen, bai Udalean bai hemen, Legebiltzarrean, éta Sailburuak, Darpón jaunak, hau esan zuen: "That it did not take more than 30 minutes to reach anywhere in Euskadi with a pediatric emergency service". Well, this, if you ask someone from Elorrio or Markina-Xemein, then surely, if you get to one of these hospitals in 30 minutes, it's going to be 200 an hour. And also, under what conditions these trips are made, when we take our sick sons or daughters to emergency. There are more than 4,100 minors in Durango and more than 12,500 in the region. 120,000 people in the region. This way of giving service seems to us to be an aggravation because these children are being deprived of basic rights under the laws, such as the right to health care on equal terms. Another aspect of the health situation is primary care. Already in March 2019 we denounce it, the lack of personnel, the conditions in which they work, the excessive ratios. In an increasingly ageing society, a clearer bet for primary care is increasingly needed. Planning is needed. Professionals are missing. Retirement is not an unforeseen event. We have discussed it repeatedly here that more figures, more services, psychologists, dentists, physicists, psychiatrists are needed. And despite the increase in the population and the average age, however, primary care, rather than strengthening, is diminishing more and more. Patient ratios per doctor continue to rise. In 20 years in Durangaldea these ratios have doubled. Waiting lists increase, attention times decrease. And you go into boxes, not a hospital, but in boxes like Formula One. What happens when the primary is overflowing? For many people end up in the emergency service, in the CAP, in the points of continuous attention, or claudica and finally go to private health. The Durango PAC is another saturated and collapsed service. A situation that gets worse on weekends because it pays attention to the whole region. And that was also reported by the professionals in the neighbourhood: the resources were poor and constant restrictions which led to the overthrow of the PAC of Durang. Another aspect, the medicalized ambulance. Durangaldea does not have such a unit. This is an intervention unit with a special team that treats critical patients or those people who require life support. The nearest is in Gernika, 30, 40 minutes. We're talking about critics. Can critical situations really be addressed with these times and distances? Time in these situations is life. The official response that moved us to Durango was that those transfers could be made by a helicopter whenever it was daytime and with good weather conditions. And this is Euskadi. It's been eight years since a woman from Durangangera had begun to collect her signature for this ambulance, because she'd had more than once needed her daughter. At that time, the Social Party joined the campaign, but today we continue without medical ambulances in Durango. "Y es mujjari nos preguntaba el otro que en la calle que que qué servimos si no somos capas de daspuesta a una suea concreta y tan vital." Ahí lo dejo. Another aspect: the referrals to the Gernika Hospital. Lately... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... so concrete and so vital. That's where I leave it. Another aspect: the referrals to the Gernika Hospital. Lately, they are being derived to perform diagnostic tests such as mammograms, surgeries or covid vaccination. The problem is that there is no direct public transport between Durango and Gernika. And the answer, in General Councils of Bizkaia, when we ask about it, is that there is enough transport. And we ask ourselves: But enough for what or for whom? You have to take two trains, you have to wait in Amorebieta, the transfer is an hour. Most people who go to Gernika Hospital are older people, who need accompaniment. This is discriminating against a part of the population. Special transport is available for sporting events, parties... And you don't qualify for basic medical travel? Another aspect: the air quality in Durango, is harmful. The Basque Government has detected high concentrations of benzene in the air. It is a very dangerous substance, even a carcinogen, which undoubtedly affects the health of the population. And this aspect also requires more intensive monitoring that is not being done on the health side. And finally, the Heart Resuscitation Unit. This unit that has been asking for over the last few years and that does not exist and that has already arrived late for a few neighbors and neighbors. For all the above, today, more than 120,000 people are in a situation of inequality in quality health care in Durangaldea and Lea-Artibai. The distribution and allocation by territory is not equitable, and the neighbours and neighbours of these regions should, we should, be able to have sufficient infrastructure and resources to meet our needs. In addition, derived from the pandemic, new needs are being generated that require greater attention and, especially, face-to-face care, as is all derived from mental health. Comnzaba didento que a hablar de un desierto sanitio. "Pues si alguien se ha peridi, or if anyone doesn't have a light, here's an image." It's not ours. It's not ours, it's the Osadeon's. Here are the Gipuese, each region with its hospital, and here in Biscaia, the great Bilbocentrism; y en el centro, de colorranja, e-dirto de Durrano. Este es el destinyi sanitarian. And this is what brings us here today: that it is enough to protest on the street and in the institutions without a serious return, a credible and reasonable response to the health misconception that we suffer from in Durangaldea by the government, without investing or putting in resources. We ask today to put the first stone in this desert. It's not much, it's little for a government that's used to investing in other kinds of stones and making deaf ears to citizen platforms that are protesting and denouncing these situations. Today, at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida - from my parliamentary group - we have come to an agreement with the majority of this House, so that the data and needs of our region in health matters are collected. Let it be done by the hands of those who know the terrain best: their collectives and their local institutions. Take into account the demographics and geography of our region. Also take into account those most vulnerable groups, and also that they do so as soon as possible, that they do so this year, that we cannot wait for more cuts or more pandemics or ambulances. We need you to do it now. And when it's done, here we are, claiming a second stone, but it's really not like Banksy's, but like the sandstone of our beloved (Mikeli?)). And then the desert will start to cease to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u32	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... And welcome to the guests. We're glad, then, Podemos has changed the focus and has nothing to do with the proposal he's defended today, because we were surprised to have a suggestion to build a hospital in the first place in the focus, in the pedæatrian and in all the other areas you've mentioned. For Durango, Duran's question is surrounded by hospitals, hospitals of all kinds, and hospitals in different types. We could say a lot of quiet inside the 30 miles radio and in 20 minutes he's got any hospital available. Durango is the hospital of the Debaren Hospital, 27 minutes, 21 kilometres; 16 minutes from Durandon to the Galdaka Hospital, 16 kilometers; − Too far from Durara to the Eibarian Hospital is the hospital of subsidents − 21 kilometers; 25 kilometre to the Mendar Hospital, 29 kilometre Hospital, 32 kilometers from Durong. In the decree of the integrated sanitarian organization, in the decree which is clogged by the typeology of −, according to the decree, we have all sorts of hospitals in hand from first typeology to third types in the course of Dubran. It is clear, then, that in Durangra there is no need to build a hospital. But that doesn't mean that the region in Durangga, the Derang, has the indispensable health services of Durango and Durran, which are situated in the interior of the ESI, or needless to improve the quality of the medical attention they receive... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... or that he needs nothing to improve the quality of his health. Durango, the question Durran, has doubtless great wants of health, because it has great privations. Undoubtedly, the primary attention of the Durang, the pedigree, the unstoppable attention and domestic service have much to do with, and we have to put focus there, not in the hospital, we must put focus there. Remember, especially, how many discussions we had in the legislature of 2012-2016, we brought some proposals from the hands of professional health, from the groups which were in opposition at the time of the council, even from the common people. So we've got a lot of unresolved deficiencies for years. So it was strange to have taken a picture of the health department yesterday at 2012-2016, where he had been at the Medical Department, and who now is responsible for the mankom units, when he has never answered positively the day before, yesterday, with the head physician, when he has never cared to give an answer. Por cine, the head of the Medical Department has no time here to explain Mondays, but to go to the radio to take a picture yesterday to Durang; and you know what we need? Less poets, less communication policy and health policies are needed. And the manager of the Mankomunity has no one to count without telling it to the local representatives of the townships and not to go to the City Council to meet the head physician of the Medical Department. Of course, there were other interests involved, but we must be serious here and things aren't that way. As I have said, we were here discussing the situation of an unusually interrupted circle of attention. We went to visit her there, to see the situation. In Durango we had a suggestion to place medical ambulances, to put an ambulance with a nurse who was what we had done. And especially in the past few years, we've had the first attention to the pedigree. And this is the problem, this is our problem, and we have to answer this, and we have to put focus in it. In all other countries there is a like situation, and this is not the effect of pandemia, but it already exists. And we have to consider the characteristics of Durang, because Durango has grown a lot of years, but the question Duran has many farms, many neighbors, a great dispersal, and we have to give an answer to it. And we should put our head on that, in order to give answers to the short-term, but in order to plan the future needs, the development, the growth of the population, and so on. And for once, for once, to start planning, because all this is just the result of lack of planning. And the question is, that the idea which has been sold to the people from the prism of the Olympianistism that has been for years has been the solution of all the problems that occur in building a hospital. It's a very visual idea for populist and voters to reach the population. But building is not a solution, hospitals must be filled, and hospitals must be provided, and there must be professionals in hospitals; and if services and professionals are not contained in hospitals, service cannot be offered. And we could have the prettiest building in the world, but it's no use. Besides, to get access to hospitals in order to consult presence, the entrance is primary attention. Without strong first attention, it is impossible to reach the hospitals; it is impossible for the people to be quick in health; it is impossible for them to receive health in time and time; it is impossible for the citizens to have reference health equipment all their lives, and so on. We must also remember that if money invests in buildings, then money is no longer to invest in professionals, and we have a serious problem there. Remember, people are treated with people, people without people, hospitals, health houses, they're just empty buildings. And though we're late for work, in people's hands, it's time to invest in workers. Menos cemento, menos cemento, más personal, más personal. The cement must be pushed aside, easy policy, the populist has to be pushed aside. It's time for people, workers, and citizens to be brought to the front and centre. Of course, it's not that visual in the short, is it? It's not that depressing, but it's effective. The most effective policy is to preserve our health. And to better visualize, I'll give you some examples of what happened with the building of hospitals and the politics of the cement in years. Debola's. The hospital in Devaren was new, and now the old one is renewed. In the meantime, services have been removed and centralized here in Gasteo. The lab was removed, the pathological anatomia was removed, and we've been suffering from these two services in the pandema. We have want of professionalism in the anesthetic, in Cardiology, in nimology, in the irology, and all this has an effect on the service. The Gerica Hospital was also built. He was sold to us as a distinguished hospital, but only a big ambulance is left, and not a hospital. Even the Eibar hospital. It was an exchange of budgets. The people thought it would be an ordinary hospital, and no, it's a subconscious hospital, right next to Mendaros, a subaltern hospital, a third-styled hospital, and a company made by a popular pact in the pandemonade... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... When he's at Mendaro, the subaltern hospital, with a third plant empty, and a company has been introduced through the pandemonies to offer a private company, a social service. And read the pact over there, please, and see what ratios are there, the doctor's and the nurse's, and it's a shame. It's a shame for the social service he's offering in a hospital. Read the agreement. What's wrong with the surgeons while we're doing? Affirmative gas. And do you know where it takes to build a hospital? Toulouse. There's no need for a hospital to be built in Toulouse. There was only one place where it was necessary to build a hospital, and which, historically speaking, this government refused: To build a hospital in Toulouse. And in the end, by the annual struggle of the people, it will be built on the pressure of the people. It will. And it has been acknowledged that there is a need, and now the hospitals are to be built, while the care of health is given to the people of Toulouse, and afterwards they will serve them. So we need a deep change of mentality in nice health. Well, maybe it's not that bad, 'cause the strategic documents that the Medical Department writes are very neat, very nice. The other thing is, it's got nothing to do with prax. For all that reason, we should focus on Durango, and we should focus on the Durangs, be a spot of unstoppable attention. Hospital emergency and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u34	...we need something of the size of an unstoppable focus, much more potent than it is now. We need to increase our first attention. We need to reinforce domestic service. It's very important. It's very important. Pediatry, too, pediatricia. That's why, for all of this, we're doing the right thing, and we're glad most of the media is in the middle of it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u35	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u36	...it's our middle course, it's a pity we planned a three-month test, and finally it's gonna be one year. But it's a step forward. Besides, it is agreed-whether the agreement to-day is useful in order to open the way we need such conformity to health, because we are in great need of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Keep time, please. Basque Popular, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Today, Podemos has brought us together to discuss a specific subject, a proposition regarding the state of OsI Goridala. And there will be a great deal of agreement in this legislature, and we, the vote of our party, will vote for it, because at last it is required in this or that place, and in this exact OSI, examine the duties of duty, of health, and agree with the amendment we have proposed in our proposal. Today, as I said, a broad agreement has been reached on a study on the health situation of OSI Barrualde-Galdakao: to study the needs of this area, both in outpatient and hospital settings, with the aim of ensuring accessibility and quality services. And, as the proposer has rightly said, also taking into account the specificities of this area, geographical and demographic. To this end, the Basque Government, Osakidetza specifically, is urged to take all measures that can best be adapted to the reality of the area, with special attention to minors, the elderly, multipathological patients and vulnerable groups. He said that we are going to sign this agreement, of course, because it comes to say virtually the same as our amendment tabled, the amendment to the non-law proposal of the Elkarrekin Podemos group, in which we expressly say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to study the needs of the Barrualde-Galdakao OSI and to take the necessary measures to remedy the existing shortcomings and strengthen the services that are needed. I therefore believe that there is a complete coincidence in the agreement reached and what we asked for in our amendment. I am not going to focus specifically on analysing and detailing here all the problems that exist in this particular area: I understand that Elkarrekin Podemos' spokesman has done so clearly; moreover, with knowledge of the cause, because he also resides in this area. And, therefore, I am not going to focus on this detail; on all the needs and shortcomings that health care can have at this time in this important area of our geography. But I do have to say that, at the end of the pandemic, or at least in a scenario of recovery and recovery also gradually of normality, and, above all, taking into account, without prejudice to the fact that we have discussions on the situation of the pandemic, and especially how this group has tabled a motion to debate - and that will be debated next week - to assess all the measures that have been put in place by this executive and some other issues, especially with the aim of analysing the effectiveness of the measures raised over all these months. I think we need to reflect on whether they have been effective because we have certainly had the highest contagion rates with the most severe measures. I'm saying, without prejudice to the fact that we have... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... in relation to whether they have been effective, because we have undoubtedly had the highest contagion rates with the most severe measures. I say that without prejudice to the fact that we have to look at many issues that are still pending and that arise from the pandemic scenario, and above all, in order to be prepared in a future that is not desired, but that similar situations may also arise, or that this pandemic situation is not completely complete. So, well, we have to talk carefully. He said that I think it is appropriate that we also focus on initiatives such as today we are going to debate in this House, on this specific OSI, the OSI Galdácano... Barrualde-Galdakao, about also then another debate of the region of Bidasoa and of the surgical block of Bidasoa, and also, as we will also do with another initiative that we have already presented to this House, with the closure of the emergencies of Santiago. That is to say, I think it is also time to bring debates that are on the street and that all this shows that, apart from the fact that I believe that the management of the pandemic by the Basque Government is more clear than clear, and there are many things to be remedied for the future, as I said. I believe that both the Committee on Health and the debates that can be held in this Parliament in the health field in the future must focus on issues that are on the table, on asking and demanding certain actions, such as this, from the Basque Government, will be the conduct of a study to review the health situation in this particular area, and above all the needs, and to put in place the necessary means for quality care. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u39	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u40	Thank you, Madam President, and welcome to the guests and guests. Many times they have heard me say something in this very rostrum which, although it is obvious, I do not resist repeating today too. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected our lives to the full, and what we were given as a matter of fact, what – if I may say so – was normal, has been altered by a virus that has set foot above all spheres of our life. And it is also evident that the virus has completely affected our health systems, health systems that were not logically designed or structured in an ordinary way to deal with a pandemic, because they cannot be structured in an ordinary way to deal with the extraordinary. They can try to adapt, to give an extraordinary response to an extraordinary situation, and they can also try to learn, which is very important. Why I say all this, because it seems important to me to begin by recognizing that this pandemic completely altered our normal care, so it has done here, it has done so in any autonomous community, and it has done so in any of the countries affected by the COVID-19, and it is not the first time I say it, in fact, we have always said it. And this alteration of our care normality has had many manifestations that have always come from the hand of the progress of the pandemic itself, and it is logical, we have all experienced it, that this alteration means not receiving attention as we had always received it, not at the same speed or sending us to other centers, and therefore causing us discomfort. And that has to be recognized, because it is. It is true that all these measures have been necessary to deal with the pandemic, and also in many cases to ensure the safety of professionals and also of patients, but the truth is that this alteration of normal care causes us discomfort. In fact, precisely this type of situation, was what motivated the municipal motion, which is the origin of this non-law proposal, and that in September EH Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, presented at the Town Hall of Durango knowing that neighbors and neighbors of his municipality, who had always been served at the Hospital of Galdakao, were being derived to the Hospital of Gernika to perform their diagnostic tests. That motion had three points: in the first point, we urged the Department of Health to recover the Galdakao Hospital as a reference hospital for the neighbours and neighbors of Durango, which we share; in the second, we talked about public transport problems to reach Gernika, and in the third, we urged the Basque Government to analyze the resources and possibilities of creating a hospital in Durango to give quality health services to the citizens of the regions of Durangaldea and Lea Artibai, which we also share. And as our spokesman, Jesica Ruiz, pointed out, without generating false expectations, but it is necessary to analyze all possibilities, including this one. I, seeing that Podemos recorded this issue in Parliament, understood that it was going to propose the same initiative that we would have supported on its own; however, in the initiative put forward in Parliament, Elkarrekin Podemos, on its part, and today also in the speech, has opened up more of the approach by talking about other needs that are being raised with regard to health infrastructures in Durangaldea, which also have to do with primary care, points of continued care, pediatrics, etc., etc., which is good. But then, on the operative side, it was only going back to what the hospital was, as Mrs Ubera pointed out, with whom I quite agree with what she said in this rostrum. And we, with our amendment, wanted to take advantage to try to complete that too (?) that we understood that he had stayed out. As we all know, the model and the portfolio of services that define health care at its different levels and resources are constantly in evaluation and adaptation also now. And also now, that we are at a time of the pandemic, better, with lower rates, with much lower hospital pressure and ICU, we believe that it may be the opportune time to address this evaluation process, the analysis of the health care of the region, as different agents of Durangaldea have proposed... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... propitious to address this evaluation process, the analysis of the health care of the region, as different agents of Durangaldea have proposed. And so we urge the Department of Health, in our amendment, to study the need for health care in the region, and that this study should include both outpatient and hospital alternatives at different levels of service. Subsequently, we have worked on an even more concrete compromise amendment, which has been accepted and which we, in addition, welcome the broad majority that is going to have in this Parliament; perhaps unanimity, we will see. And so it seems to us appropriate to analyze and offer better quality health care to users of OSI BarrualdeGaldakao, considering that the study will be carried out this year and identify the health care needs of the region - both outpatients, now yes, as hospitals - that it is necessary to implement in its different levels of services, taking into account the geographical and demographic characteristics of the region; and to dialogue with the institutions of the Durangaldea region, in order to know their own contributions and those that the entities and social agents of the region have transferred to it. All this in order to ensure the coverage and accessibility of quality health services to all people living in this region, and to be able to present in the study the proposals for measures that best adapt to the reality and situation, paying particular attention to the needs of minors, older persons, multipathological patients and other potential vulnerable groups. I think it is fair to acknowledge that Osakidetza and the health professionals - the proposer has done so - have made a great effort throughout this pandemic, adapting our resources to the management of an unprecedented health crisis. And, as we have always said, from the Socialist Party, according to the evolution of the virus was decreasing, it would be time to recover the normality of care - always guaranteeing the safety of patients and professionals - as well as to approach analyses that allow us to continue to make progress in the continuous improvement of our care services. This is the way. And this study, on health needs with outpatient and hospital alternatives, will provide a response to the needs of the neighbours of Durango and the entire region. Finally, I would like to congratulate ourselves and to congratulate ourselves on this comprehensive agreement which is to be reached here today. I think it is, of course, an example. I think we've all made an effort, whether we're signing it or we're going to support it. And I believe that this is the way for the citizens of Euskadi to see that reasonable demands have room in this Parliament and are supported by their public representatives. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. When I read this experience, I thought that we must take advantage of the nearness of my subject, and the knowledge of the needs and situation of Durangnets, to encourage this subject, and obtain a general consent. That's where we've made our attempts to make the deal, which is what we've made, and so we've all got to order all the teams, Mr. Ekain Rico, all of us. We've also made our efforts by the Socialists and the Eunciators of Euciators, so we've all made our efforts because of the honesty of our agreement, which today made this treaty to protect all of us. And we have obtained this agreement, though we do not share the reading of the condition of the Ossar; and yet it has been obtained. Because we know, or we have, I hope at least we all have the same purpose: Membership, protecting our Basque health system, public health system, free, universal and quality. In 1983, since euskal medical service was founded, that was the end of fun, the company, and the Jeltzac Party of the Eupscal Party, and the collective achievement of the eucalyptus Society. Today, in this debate, we are talking about Durangaldea and we have put a number of proposals on the table. Different yes, but, all for the same purpose, as I said before: improve quality health care in the area, in Durangaldea. And that end has prevailed over everything else. And with effort and hours of intense work these days, we have reached an agreement, which I would also like it to be not the last and to be the beginning of a way of working from collaboration and thinking about the common good. Osakidetza, the Department of Health and the Government have a well-defined and robust strategy, built on many years of commitment and experience. This strategy involves strengthening our public services, constantly reviewing the needs and resources available and listening to citizens. And this is going to be done in Durangaldea: analysis, identification of health needs - whatever they are - and implementation of those that are necessary to improve care and anticipate future challenges. That is the commitment for this region and for all others. We live changing realities, new diseases arise, new needs and more advanced equipment, and we have and must know how to adapt to them, so that the care for patients will never suffer and be a little better every day. But, to do so, we cannot go with hasty or ill-argued ideas; we must analyse, study thoroughly and then conclude; we must listen to the institutions, entities and agents, so that we can all have the best possible alternative. It is supposed to be done in order to provide for a public examination of a hospital, and to determine whether it is effective to solve health problems. So we think it doesn't make any sense to go with a subtle thinkingist − and there I'm one of what Mrs. Ubera said to do when we can find the environment of resources and especially when we can find a lack of professional matters besides economics. And we think that's not the way to make it. That's why the Euca patriots... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... In addition to economics, we can also find professional deficiencies. And we think that's not the way to make it. Therefore, the Eucan Abertaries and the Sociaists of Basques, were not only to go beyond the correction, but only to look at the needs of Durango, we think we ought to consider the necessities of the whole question in Dura ('... Eldoron, Durangon, in Zornos; and this is what has been asked by divers causes. And thanks to our correction and starting our correction, we've got that agreement where we ask you to see the state of the ESI of the Interior, which needs to be examined and examined by what demands they are. And for this purpose, we ask the Government to speak with the institutions for their different contributions and motives, in order to accommodate them to the state of the region of study. And that, Mrs. Ubera, is what we demand in our correction and division: diálogo. There's no such thing as a mancomundand. Nos reunimos, porque nos reunimos, pos reunimos, testos con vas cons illias e instiades, porque nos renomos, nocæ, no porque nocemos, no locemos. However, I would be grateful to you when you say that yesterday the chief physician had been in the state of mankom unit, if you would be so kind as to inform him that it was a lie. You said the chief physician can't come here to the legislature, that he's in the manchom unit, that he's worried about the affairs of Durango, that's positive because of Durango and Durangal business he'll always be worried about, but don't lie. But when you see that yesterday, or the day before yesterday, is not the assembly that has passed last week, you will see that the Department of Health is always − for a long time past, a thing which has been created today, is always working in order to examine what needs are in the Durangland. And if he joins with the government of Mankom, he will assemble with the Council of Durango, with the Council of Elderos, with the Debts, or with the Institutions, and the Institutions. But don't complain that the chief physician or the Medical Department is making meetings. I think what you see is the commitment to the government's partnership and health of quality, the whole commitment, okay? And with this agreement we've made, and this Durangtal examination, that's a commitment to it. You're all here asking for exams, because here we have this deal to discuss, so don't make a statement. You've all come here with a analysis, a few conclusions or consequences, but what we're asking today is that we make an analysis with this medium. Let the Health Department make this analysis with different agents, institutions, and different institutions, and, in consequence of this analysis, we shall know what needs are to be done. But let us not make a precedent between us, when we have agreed that this analysis must be made, and that this year the Health Department will make it. And yet, as I have said, and as this state is, and as I have said, the whole commitment to Osacism, Well, to health, to health, to health, to health of quality, and to the quality of sanitarian existence, yet necessity has increased, and although it has been an effective and adequate organization, a pandemia has come, and has thrown everything upside down, and effects have been terrible in the world, in the Euskka and in Durdin. However, we can't come from the Euskka, as you know, when the health system has answered. Hoy estendo de la part e todo, usdo problemos de vacacioneso de la improcón de ómicron para valorar todo. And I repeat: This is the whole thing about Osacin and the health system, including the region in the Durang area. And today's deal will do that. And I just want to give a few facts to see, so I'll give the data, and I won't make any analysis. I say he's engaged and I'm just gonna give him some facts. If we look into the budget, the $4,300 million resources to Osa member, we're investing 1,984 euros of the person, the highest in the state. Infrastructures, new hospitals, health centres, new external consultations, surgical blocks, new emergencies continue to be expanded. This 2022, 107 million euros in investments in 39 facilities; in Primary Care, 20.5 million euros and 45 more professionals. The budgetary agreement with EH Bildu, which also strengthens primary care by an additional 30 million euros. Also improvements in Durangaldea. Within the deployment of primary care strategy attention, the Durangaldea centers have been equipped with new tools: ecographers, (dermatoscopes?), spirometers... They've been improved. And it is the consequence of this labour and commitment, for example, that we have the data we have, the number of deaths, that we are among the communities, which have been least dead during the covid period, or which are most careful. Well, there are lots of data and figures, que hace que no podamos hablar de precarad, pero que tampoco, obviamente, podamos obviar locas derivados de la pandemy. I am not saying, I am not saying that there is no tension, that there is no problem, but there can be no talk of precariousness and we are not going to obviate the problems that may arise from the pandemic either. Nor can we avoid the discomfort that has been generated with certain decisions, with reorganizations, having to go to other centers that are not the reference ones, as happens in Durangaldea, to carry out certain other medical tests, the tension and the overstress caused by the pandemic. If I don't say we have to get rid of these problems. That is the reality and we must assume it. It is not the one desired by anyone, nor by the Government. But this does not mean that there is neither a stand nor that Osakidetza does not have a commitment, because it does have it because it offers the best quality service, with a vision of continuous improvement of health care. We see it today, with this initiative, and we see it with facts. We've lived two very difficult years. The virus has made things difficult for us, but it has resisted thanks to the commitment of all and the efforts of many people. We have a good quality public health service, but we must continue to work to improve it. We are going to do this in Durangaldea, and also with the impetus of this Parliament and of all the forces represented here today, because thanks to the agreement that we are going to sign unanimously today we are going to promote the analysis of the needs of Durangaldea that will improve...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u43	Thank you... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... represented today, because thanks to the agreement that we are going to sign unanimously today we will promote the analysis of the needs of Durangaldea that will improve the health situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. It's your turn, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. To begin with, I will congratulate the Democrats in this House who, once again, have done a twisting opacity exercise to leave out an agreement to Vox. Perhaps to guarantee the presence in the same one of those few minutes ago have done an obscene exercise of legitimization of violence against the bodies and security forces of the State. It has circulated to a sensible compromise amendment, which corrected the enormous misconception of the Podemos initiative: progressive, cheap and absolutely irrational populism. But the promoters of this amendment have been forgotten this seat, which I occupy. Perhaps it was without misunderstanding - let us leave it there - which once again demonstrates the democratic demise of a large part of this Parliament, and which is more than dubious; it is frankly better. But, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-democratic cordon, today, accompanied by the People-Citizens Group - which has also not signed because we have not had the opportunity - we are going to vote in favour of this amendment, and perhaps ETA's political arm is going back and again showing how much people and their problems matter, because Vox is always going to support all initiatives that solve Basque problems and solve the problems of citizenship in general. Will they do the same? Anyway. Let me tell you that this amendment, which will see the light today, is late; once again, caused by media pressure. If you have read the press of the day you will see that the Health Council has already marked a theatrical performance with agents from the Durango area to announce what this amendment incorporates. It is sad that a demeanor of a marked populist character has been the trigger of what should have been done many months ago, because the problems to which the parties refer are not new, come from afar, but no one had considered it important to do anything about it. This need has come when the issue threatened to become a major media gap, leaving a government that with such insistence sells that "no one will be left behind." Perhaps it should be added that "no one will be left behind, except when their problems deserve no media interest." And, finally, ladies and gentlemen of the anti-democratic cordon, those four democratic parties from door to door and so anti-democratic and sectarian from door to door – sectarians, yes, I have said it well – this amendment reflects what should have been done a long time ago, and it deserved to bear the signature of all the groups represented in this House. You have prevented it; you are responsible for it. You neither respect this Parliament nor respect democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u46	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Mrs. Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u47	Well, first of all, I wanted to come back to reality, because it was one of the last things Mrs Berrojalbiz mentioned: the reality of precariousness, which she says is nonexistent. I believe that if there was no precariousness in primary care they would not call the strike, because the workers do not call the strike because they do. So, it seems to me that, well, that certainly doesn't fit reality. On the other hand, I just want to focus on the deal. I want to focus on the agreement, because here we rarely see majority agreements and that we all support an initiative. And we all know - the ones we are in this agreement - that reaching an agreement is not easy, that we all leave things behind that we would like, that we know that there are many people behind that have fought in the streets and in the institutions so that we can get an initiative here. Well, eskerrik asko Berrojalbiz andreari, zure artagatik, zure denboragatik: we have been discussing this topic for quite some time; we managed to arrive at a consensus text, and that for me it was important to put it in simple words and in easy words that everyone understood. I would also like to thank Mr Rico, as well as all his efforts; we have also been in several conversations. I would also like to thank Mrs Ubera, because very important elements have also been taken from the amendment to EH Bildu. Also to the People-Citizens Group for the support it is going to give us, because it is true that in its amendment it mentioned those collectives that are going to be particularly reflected in this data analysis. But if I want to recognize someone, right now, it's all those people from Durango and Durangaldea who's been mobilizing for all these years, who've been collecting signatures, who've been gathering in the street, who've been gathering with the health personnel in the area. And I want to mention especially the Air Quality Platform, all those people behind that platform, and especially the 24-hour Pediatrics platform, of which, today, some of its promoters are represented here. And for them, and for those who are in Durango, and for those who are in all the villages and in all the rural areas of Durangaldea, I believe that this agreement is positive. And, as I said in my speech, it is a stone, a stone that we begin to put in the construction of a democratic and equal health for all, especially for Durangaldea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u49	Mrs. Berrojalbbiz, I don't understand this neganiumism of reality, I don't understand why you're always denying it or you don't want to see it. And, well, now it's not the time to open up the discussions about the pandemese, but what you've been talking about is that we're the community we've had the least death... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and, well, now it is not the time to open the discussion of the data about the pandemonium, but that we are the community that have been least of all the deaths you have mentioned, look at the MoMOR report on the Ministry's Web page, how many PCRs we have done, and so on, and you will see that we are far from first posts, and unfortunately, we are very near the first places of death, if we are not the first. See how many excessive deaths we've had throughout the whole pandemia. Well, on the other hand, I didn't say that the health department was in the mankom unit, I don't know where he was, I said he took a photo with the mankomic manager. I don't know where and I don't care. When we had the toughest debates in the health department, this manager of manchomity was in the health department, when the unstoppable professional attention centres were placed on the table again and again. I'm talking about 2012, 2012 and 2016. So don't tell me we're in the face of a result of panic, probably the pandemia has increased, but in Durange, it's a clear example of how we used to see all the structural deficiencies we had before us. It is a clear example, therefore, that we have reality in it. What I have said is a pity, and strange, before the discussions of the day, to take a picture of what he had in his own hands to give an answer to these privations, which he had not given, when he never approached the people, when he had not been present and curious to appear in the photograph. So what we're asking for is fewer communication policies, fewer poses and more health policies, right? That's what we need. And, on the other hand, we would be grateful to discuss the questions we have at the legislature, and which are so important, to discuss the presence of the Medical Department on the Medical Committee. That's what I said. Look here, most importantly, it's important that the citizens should have the care of their health in time and time when they need it, and that they're all in time and time when they need it, and that they'll be able to secure their health's long care. That's our priority, and I'd like to suppose all we're here. But, inevitably, we need a strong first precaution, because we have to change the standard of contracting those spontaneous deficiencies, because we have to face the provisional. For example, there were several measures taken in our whole corrections, very important, which we shall follow here, and which will not even consider, but which are fundamental in order to have a strong first care, and to have more pediatrica requires an arrangement, and we are here, because there has been no planning for years. This is not a coincidence, this is not falling from the sky. Then, a ver, the situation is what we've got and the solutions to the future will not be easy. Then we'll have to find alternatives. We also received other points, but well, we're from the middle of the process with our first two points, and we're glad; for I think it's the politics of the cement, the politics of the cement, and not only the politics of the cement, the policy of the cement, the obsession with building hospitals in the health camp. Because we built buildings, but we evacuated our insides. And the insides are empty for services and professionals, and people are treated with people, and we need professionals to be provided for. And we drain hospitals, especially in the regional area. And we see that the main hospitals are centralizing too. Then something happens, something happens. And we have to answer that. And we're glad it's a deal because, as Mrs. Gonzále said, it's very difficult to get that deal. But I don't know how much the difference we have in the diagnosis can develop later. Because it's important to have a good diagnosis to give good answers, and there are differences, because you're located and focused in the negationism of reality. And in conclusion, Madame González wishes to thank the people, but I'd like to thank the professionals, who have fought a great deal of unstoppable professionals during the years of their first attention, professional consuls in the district of Durang. It seems to me that all of us contributes there, and that the work we all do is important. And we, who are here, should consider what the people say. And they probably don't have a 100% reason, neither do we, but it seems to me that we can all give better answers and better answers. And the conversation, the conversation between the two, between three or four, is to consider one another's own, but the conversation is not to do what one says the other does, etc., and it seems to me that this change of mentality also ought to be made by the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Does the Basque Popular-Ciudados have a word to do? No. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I, taking advantage of that..., although it may seem like the entry of the Goya awards with these recognitions we're doing, but we have five minutes, instead of one, because I want to take advantage of it also to make recognitions and to value the agreement. Because sometimes... It was talked about at the first point that sometimes we do... It's made of trileros. I am always talking about the magic of Parliament, in which we suddenly come to an agreement as important as this, which may come out unanimously, and we have the ability to turn it into a battlefield where we slap at certain points. And I believe that, moreover, that is not even upbuilding, because the agreement is a value in itself. And, above all, when that agreement captures what the citizens of Durango and Durangaldea, as Isabel pointed out, have been demanding for a long time. So, I'm not going to stop at the reproaches. I'm not gonna tell you who put the outpatient part, who put the hospital part. We've all put it on. And that's what's left of the text we've collected. I reclaim that value of the agreement... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the outpatient part, who put the hospital part, we've all put it, and that's what's left of the text we've collected. And I claim that value of the deal. And I want to make an acknowledgement, of course, to the healthcare professionals who have been giving everything during the pandemic. I want to acknowledge the citizens who are mobilizing, demanding things and taking them to the institutions. And you are also going to allow me to acknowledge the municipal level and the municipal representatives, who leave everything in the area of municipalities. They have a position, which we all know, in the village, in the city in which they are, they are councillors 24 hours a day, they are to serve the citizens at any time, and this initiative originated in the municipality of Durango, in the municipality of Durango. And I also want to recognize that municipal work and they're going to forgive me. I would also like to acknowledge the courage of our spokesman, Jesica Ruiz, of the Socialist Party, who also signed this initiative, which was the origin. And since we are grateful, which is also not wrong, rather than being slapped here, I would like to acknowledge the capacity for agreement that we have all developed in this Parliament too to give continuity to that agreement that was initiated at Durango City Hall. And then a point, without going into the background or in further discussions. To claim to be in agreement earlier, an amendment must be tabled, and Vox did not make any amendments to this text. Another thing is that we would have passed him to sign or not, but man, to claim to be in agreement and to sign a compromise amendment, a group has to make an amendment. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u53	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. I start from where I have finished, putting the value, the great effort that has been made for the coverage of health services. This has also been particularly notable in the posts where there is a shortage of professionals throughout the State, such as pediatrics and primary care, and which is also being moved to this case, which we are analysing today, in Durangaldea. Ms. Ubera, you know it's not because of lack of economic resources, not because you don't want to do the job, but Susana Martín, responsible for the First Minding Committee, as he explained when he came to the Medical Committee. So if there are resources, there is compromise, but sometimes in this case, there are no departments or all the requests we want. Eta... and with this enormous effort, which is evident and which I thank again, has worked in the midst of uncertainties, tension, facing complex and unknown situations, but with effort, work, dedication and commitment that has been able to resist. And that's why I'm surprised in your replicas that tell me that I didn't recognize any reality when this is the reality that I recognized: an effort, great work, teamwork, with a lot of tension, with uncertainties, facing complex and unknown situations. That is the reality that I have recognized, I do not know how you tell me that I have come here not to know how self-congratulations, assuming the reality that there is, and above all, reaching an agreement in which we see that there is a need for analysis of the situation in the Durangaldea region, and we have reached an agreement unanimously. But well, knowing that that is the commitment of the Osakidetza Department of Health, and therefore, thanking all professionals for the great effort they have made, because we know that in their goal is to guarantee quality public service, and because we also know that although the work they do is intense, we know that they will continue to improve it with more investments, with all efforts during this pandemic, with increases in economic resources, with the consolidation of places through the OPEs. And since we believe that this is the way forward, and that it also proves this is the very good assessment that the health system by the citizenry, I remind you that 83% of the Basques think that health works well. With this vision of continuous improvement, we urge the Government to continue to work in this way towards continuous improvement, and that today it is reflected in this debate and in the agreement reached unanimously, and in the need to observe the situation of the region of Durangaldea, because we must not forget that not only Durangaldea, because we have already agreed to analyze the situation of the OSI Barrualde-Galdakao, serves a population of about 310,000 people, Busturialdea, Lea Artibai, Duranguesado, Arratia-Nerbioi, Ayala Valley in Araba and the Upper Nervión, and that it is a territory with a geographical dispersion whose needs must be observed with special attention. That is why we urge this Government to carry out an analysis and that, thanks to the agreement reached, the needs of the region, including all the regions of this OSI, will be achieved and studied. It will be dialogued with the institutions and will receive input from these and all actors involved in the region. We know that it is the way this government works, listen, work discreetly, analyze and provide solutions to the citizenry, because we have no doubt that they will do so by the Durangaldea region. And in conclusion, as Mr. Rico has done, I would like to give a final message about the agreement, in praise of today's extensive agreement, that what we hope with one unanimous consent will be accepted. I've always said that we'll get the benefits and progress for Euskade and the citizen, and that's the example: In favor of the people of Durangland, the work that has been wrought and won among them. This is, I think, the pattern we have to follow, the agreement and the trade. The challenge we have is not simple. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Mists... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... a pattern, an arrangement, and an alliance. The challenge we have is not simple. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Mist must not speak. So, since we've finished the discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors, and the Eucbertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 72; counters, 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u56	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Popularity of the Euscal Group-Examentary proposal of the Parliament of Ciudadnos, of the citizen's claim to change the Security Act and of the Border, and generally of the protection of the police and of the members of the community in order to protect themselves from the protection of the Basque parliament." Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, Mr Vice-Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Article 104 of the Constitution is usually cited in the ceremonies for the taking of possession of the new personnel of the State security forces and bodies. Article 104 of the Constitution is intended precisely for the police, speaking in generic terms. What is said is that the role of the police is to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms and to guarantee citizen security. They are not two different competences, but rather the opposite: they are two sides of the same coin. In order to guarantee citizen security, this must be done with respect for the rights and freedoms of individuals. And the enjoyment of human rights and freedoms depends on the existence of a good system of citizen security. Similarly, in our Statute of Autonomy, article 17, the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, of Gernika, as it also refers to what are the functions of the police, in our case, the Ertzaintza. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, three are the elements, three are the elements that establish or are necessary to ensure the free exercise of rights and freedoms in a framework in which competition for citizens' security is also exercised. And, therefore, three are the elements that our police, our democratic police, our police perfectly adapted to the modernity of the twenty-first century, despite the difficulties they face. And three are the elements that exist in this sense. Firstly, an appropriate legal framework is needed. Firstly, I insist, an appropriate legal framework is needed. Secondly, a well-equipped police force is needed. Thirdly, social recognition of their work is necessary. This is very important. In the debate that we had this morning, the truth is that, rather than the social recognition of your work, here I believe that everything has been said, on the part of those who have always been, and neither have I heard - except from our group and some others - a condemnation of some expressions that have been poured out and that, beyond being hurtful and otherwise, they are absolutely inviolable in a rule of law. On the social recognition of your work, we have much to do, ladies and gentlemen. The question of having a well-equipped police, on which we have also presented some other initiative in this Parliament, and we have also put on the table the needs of our police - the Ertzaintza herself - who, in view of the gallery, seems to be one of the best equipped polices that exist, but if one looks inside, he realizes the great deficiencies he has in terms of equipment. Today, today's initiative concerns the appropriate legal framework, so that the police can properly carry out their work and ultimately guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the Organic Law 4/2015, on the protection of citizens' security, creates, at the moment, - and rather updates it, because what it does is to reform or repeal and replace the Law of 1992 - that adequate framework to protect citizens' security and guarantee the free exercise of rights and freedoms. This law, the 2015 law - and this is important to note - comes after we had an initial law on citizen security, of 1992, which was in force for about 23 years. 23 years in which the primitive law of the year 92 was subject to remedies of unconstitutionality, some minor issues were annulled, others reinterpreted in accordance with constitutional jurisprudence and then a number of reforms took place. At the age of 23, after having had relevant information, having made innumerable studies on the issue and, above all, having data – because, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to legislate with data – and, above all, to legislate with experience accumulated behind, since the reform of the 2015 Act is or has been carried out. I insist, there's a margin. It is commonly admitted in the constitutional law compared that the regulations that refer to the Criminal Code, to citizen security is usually said to be the second most stable ones that exist in the legal systems after constitutions. And, in this, Spain is always an exception, because the poor government is always changing or proposing to change the Criminal Code, and, in this case, it seems that also the Law on Citizen Security in force at this time, the 4/2015, as it wants to be modified. As I say, this law introduced a series of reforms... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Citizen Security currently in force, 4/2015, as it wants to be modified. As I say, this law introduced a series of reforms, introduced a series of measures, also derived from the situation that had occurred as a result of the reform of the Criminal Code that eliminates what were the faults and some of the faults become administrative sanctions, which made it necessary or necessary also to structure a new law, which, as I say, was done in 2015. Many behaviors that were formerly constitutive of faults even, were constitutive of criminal wrongs, became administrative wrongs. Basically, two parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies, some other, but perhaps the two that, let's say, make up today, essentially, the Government of Spain, very much criticized the law. She's been criticized a lot. They called it gag law. I remember when the law of 1992... this is already forgotten, but the law of 1992 also some called it the barren law, the law of kicking at the door. This has therefore been decided to call law gag. And I remember that there was a lot of criticism. And, well, according to all the criticisms that surround this law..., which, I insist, has given a framework and is giving an adequate legal framework for the work of the police, because under this framework..., or under this legal framework, because we have for six years that after its adoption this law has been revealed as a fundamental instrument with which it counts, not only the forces and security forces of the State, but also our autonomous police, to deal with the main threats that are today, the main security threats, the most serious ones, which are, of course, terrorism and everything that poses an imminent danger also to the life and security of people on a larger or smaller scale, and also to another series of issues that were necessary, which is one of the great challenges that police forces today also have in the world, which is also the containment of the great concentrations, of the great human concentrations. As I say, the application... Or this law has also been fundamental... And this government, the current government, that of the PSOE-Podemos coalition, or United Podemos, has been fundamental to the implementation of control measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Also, our Ertzaintza here has logically resorted to this legal basis for the exercise of its powers. And it has, as I say, been used in a normal and natural way by the present government. The Citizens' Security Act has passed several filters. The filter of the Constitutional Court passed, the one in force in 2015. There are two Constitutional Court judgements referring to it. There is an initial, that of 2020, another of the following year. But, come on, the fundamental one is 172/2020, which is the one that analyzes and refers, above all, to one of the issues that proved to be most controversial: the... I think it was article 36, paragraph 23, which established the sanctions in cases where images were collected, said, unauthorized agents, forces and bodies of State security, were distributed and that this could cause harm, logically, to the security of these people. Well, with the interpretation that has been given, that the Constitutional Court has given to this law, I insist, and assuming that there was what is called in Constitutional Law an interpretative judgment, which consists in saving constitutionality by interpreting what that precept means, and that is said, anyone who is interested, in the legal basis 7 of the judgment, if I do not recall, is established the test that is necessary in this case, and that, therefore, is perfectly legitimate and legal. Other international bodies have also endorsed the constitutionality of the law itself. Come on, I imagine one of the speakers will mention the recent report of the Venice Commission itself. The Venice Commission itself... I am saying this because I have seen some somewhat misleading headline on this issue. The Venice Commission itself endorses, and says so in its conclusions, in the final paragraphs - I am speaking of memory, but I believe that it was paragraphs 93 et seq. - that it speaks perfectly of the endorsement and that it is in full agreement with the conclusions of the Constitutional Court's ruling on this law, and therefore endorses constitutionality, and, above all, what it supports is its conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation. What has happened in this context? Well, because the parliamentary group that is called Basque, that is the PNV, in Congress what it did at the time, in October 2020, was to present a bill to reform this law. Interesting timing, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed law is presented in October 2020, but it is not until November 2021, more than a year later, when its processing is activated. Man, this could be an indication, an indicator, that perhaps the fact of activating the processing of this law had something to do with, or may have something to do with, some kind of pact or agreement that, curiously, given the dates, as it may coincide with the approval of the Budgets. I insist, the law was passed at the time, after a long experience that allowed to accumulate a series of experiences, situations, etc., and was reformed in that sense. We are not against updating the rules and, of course, we are not against updating the Citizens' Security Act at that time. But, ladies and gentlemen, in a first argument, you will agree with me that one thing is 23 years, 23 years of rule, and another thing is that, at least when the proposal was made, almost less than five years, it is already proposing a certainly important change. The implementation of this law has not generated the serious consequences predicted by its detractors, nor are these black predictions that fundamental rights and freedoms will disappear; on the contrary, it has been proven to be a good law. The application, as I say, of this law has been fundamental in the moments we have recently had in the pandemic era. Getting a little into our particular case, in the case of Euskadi. Well, the Ertzaintza neither... also... More than the Ertzaintza as such, that can only speak the counselor what is the opinion of the Ertzaintza logically, but I mean that the unions of the Ertzaintza, to which, by the way, this morning seemed to me to hear that some groups were insulting about fascist cut lobbies or neofascist cut lobbies. That kind of... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... By the way, this morning it seemed to me that some groups were insulting about fascist cut lobbies or neofascist cut lobbies. That kind of consideration, on my part and on the part of our group, is totally unacceptable, and the truth is that we expect a correction. At no time, at any time, trade unions have also been consulted about convenience and, above all, how a law can be amended. Obviously, unlike what a PNV spokesman said this morning, it is not up to Parliament to enforce the law, it is up to Parliament to pass the law. Of course, Parliament has the legitimacy to pass the law. But in a law of these characteristics what is particularly useful is the experience of those who have to apply it, which in this case is the executive power and, specifically, the police itself. The Basque police unions have spoken in this regard and have criticized that the reform proposed by the Basque group, in this case the PNV, in the Congress of Deputies because it would leave them helpless, generate chaos, impunity, deepen the disproportion in the security forces... I quote textually, eh. According to some union, "We are discredited, the attestations of the Ertzaintza are reduced, we are taken away from our daily work, it would complicate operations and put citizen security at risk." "It is incomprehensible that as crime grows, the means and instruments to tackle it are being undermined." "We see a fundamental cut in legal tools that are absolutely essential for the development of the police function." "And those of us who perform this profession know that it is impossible to identify a person, if he refuses to do so, within two hours." A number of measures have been discussed, such as collecting a person, carrying him/her, identifying him/her, testifying, if any, then returning him/her to his/her initial site, etc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we are not opposed - and I would like to emphasise this - to the effect that a reform is taking place, even taking into account, therefore, recommendations that the Venice Commission itself makes, or makes, if there is a possible amendment to this law. We are not opposed to going in and analyzing them. But what we are... or what we totally reject is that a reform of a law as important as the Law on Citizen Security is carried out in this way, is carried out through a proposal of law, which, logically, is the right of parliamentary groups, but, man, I believe that a law of these characteristics and, above all, a reform of the Law on Citizen Security must be preceded by a series of reports, important reports, studies and, above all, numbers that endorse the why it is necessary to make this change, when in the time that we have been in force of this law the truth is that its application has been quite peaceful, even, it can be kept short for some, but it achieved a good balance, in our view, between what is always at stake: freedom and security. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today we call for Parliament's approval to withdraw the bill from Congress... first, to recognize the work, above all, of the Ertzaintza and the rest of the forces and bodies of the State and, secondly, to withdraw from the Congress of Deputies, or from the Senate, if any, such legislative initiatives. And if we really want to make a reform, because it is preceded by an agreement, if possible, greater and, above all, the legal reports necessary to undertake this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Unprotecting the law enforcement forces and unprotecting all Spaniards or, in other words, protecting the offender, leaving our police officers helpless and endangering the safety of all citizens, that is the purpose of the Spanish government PSOE-Unidas Podemos, of the Basque government and of the left abertzale. Nothing that surprises us, especially now that they have come in haste to prepare the way for when they are in opposition and want to leave way free for their radical partners to take the streets. That's his real way of doing politics. From Vox we have already requested in this House to provide more material means to protect the Ertzaintza in the exercise of its functions. In fact, we did nothing else to get to this House. It was of no use to ask Vox, a democratic party, the third political force in Spain and on the rise, to whom they make an anti-democratic cordon and coward in the purest mafia style, while whitening and praising a party made up of ETA heirs. Year and a half later, our forces and security forces of the State remain the same, they remain defenceless, demanding more measures to ensure that all Basques and all Spaniards can freely exercise our fundamental rights and freedoms. Now, with this clumsy turn that is intended with the reform of the law, far from maintaining the dignity, privacy and principle of authority that the legislation assures the forces and security forces of the State, peaceful demonstrators are unprotected and street violence is whitewashed. Their whole desire is to minimize or justify the responsibilities of offenders to make fines and treatment more favourable. I am referring, for example, to express identifications and transfers, with taxi service back to the place of detention to which the norm violates, not bearing their identification on the public street, a circumstance that in the case of night services further exacerbates the shortage of troops. With this reform, the police are exposed to the will of the offender. Its version has the same validity as that of street thugs and delinquents. There is no impediment to them being recorded and disseminated on social networks, putting their safety and that of their relatives at risk. In Vox we are not going to allow those who are dedicating their lives to serve the Spaniards and defend our homeland. This Parliament must preserve the principle of the right to privacy and the principle of authority for those who ensure our security and peaceful coexistence on the streets, which has cost us so many years to reach and which have left so much pain in Basque society. It is enough to see who are the drivers of this reform to understand the end. In the rubric, the main enemies of freedom: Bildu and Podemos. Interestingly, there's also the PNV. This reform only benefits the radical partners of the Government. There are only two options: to give arms to the police or to give arms to the criminal, to bet on the safety of all Basques or to give wings to the scavengers and street riots. In Vox we bet to protect those who play life for us: our forces and bodies... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...all the Basques or give wings to the scavengers and street riots. In Vox we bet to protect those who play their lives for us: our forces and security bodies of the State, our Ertzaintza. We bet on peaceful coexistence on the streets and we bet on the security of all Basques. And you, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u60	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everybody. Mr. Gordillo, you're filling up the police spokesman's role again today. For the second time, you ask me not to touch the law, but to give way to the police proclamations. You're fighting for the police, but while you're doing that, you're fighting someone else, and I'll tell you: You resist the Spanish Council. The police commissioner of his human rights has asked the Spanish State to make use of the reform of the law of Mosal to join the rules of human rights in Europe. Mr. Gordillo, you oppose the opinion of the United Nations. Bost erratorek eskatu due law has behera behera geratzea behera. The Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and association, the Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, the Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, the Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants and the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders. Nik ez dakit horrendeste errante rapportera baten agertu diren, bat egin duten, horrelako aldarrikapen bat egiteko lege baten kontra. Amnesty International eta halako organismen kontra jarriko zara. Fat yellow. Hemen bertan, Gasteizen, mobilization egin zuten ore of gutxi, eta ondoko hau eskatu zuten: mozal legearen makillajea ez Egypt. Bear gogor kritikatu zuten egiten ari de un ereforma, ereforma bera. Esaten zuten: "The Citizens' Security Act will continue to be a gag in the face of peaceful protest. The reform proposal does not reduce the broad discretionary powers of security forces and bodies, nor does it establish adequate mechanisms of control and accountability, leaving the door open to arbitrary actions." Amnesty International. He goes on to say: "Neither is the use of rubber balls prohibited nor does it propose to eliminate the apparent legal coverage given by law to those known as hot returns. Amnesty International therefore advocates a derogation." I will invoke a right that violates the entire law: the right to a fair trial or a process with guarantees. Juan Calparsoro, senior prosecutor at the time of the design and implementation of the law, said. And he came here, to Parliament, to the Justice Commission, where he said that the conduct that was previously criminal offences and that is now sanctioned by the Law on Citizen Security, by the delegate of the Government or by the director of the Department of Security, are, in the end... That is, (...) guarantees of defence and will always be minor. That is, Mr Gordillo, more sanctions, more serious and with less guarantees for the citizens. PP stands for the police, but the action of the police is opposed to all these organisms to control them. Each one chooses what friends he has and what enemies he has. In this case, these organisms act for the rights of the people, and I think that you abandon it. Bitartean, EAJ, PSE eta Elkarrekin We can kontra ez, bathe ez duzue organism horiekin bat egiten proposedzen duzuen lege Honen ereformarekin. Esaten nuen moduan, erakunde hauek batez was derogating from Aldeko's august Egyptian dutelako. Are gehiago, EAJ eta PSE ez duzue bat Egyptian 2016an hemen bozkatu zenuten initiatibarekin. Ondoko hau esaten zuen: "The Basque Parliament publicly expresses its position against the Law on Citizens' Security; two, henceforth, of a new application of this law that violates fundamental rights, we undertake to denounce it publicly and express our solidarity with the person concerned; and three, being the political majority of this Parliament against this law, we undertake not to apply it". This was the resolution that took place with us in 2016. PNV and PSOE were clear in 2016, and today it seems that not so much. I think it was because in 2016 we shared the indignation for this law. I think that in 2016 PNV, PSE, EH Bildu we were horrified by what this law meant; a product of a liberated, totalitarian agenda, assuming an obvious cut in citizens' rights. I'm still horrified by this law. But I think that you - like the frog's fable in hot water - have been adapting to this regulation, you have taken pleasure in it without seeing that you were burning. And now, accustomed to such prerogatives in police hands, they no longer promote their repeal, but are worth a mere reform. Neither does Elkarrekin We can claim this repeal by which he went to the elections that led them to the government and reflected in the coalition agreement with the PSE. Contradiction and no applying. Such were the decisions made in 2016 from PNV and PSE. During the seven years, the law of Mozzi has been applied about 45,000 times in these three countries. 27,000 times, almost by disobedience, about 4,000, with lack of respect, the mistakes which most excite doubt. We have here heard that associations speak to us of the influence of this law against freedom. We heard the journalists who were accused of... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... they speak to us of the influence of freedom against the expression of freedom. We've heard journalists who were accused of simply communal or informative activity. He's been moved, and besides. But this is not only the case, but it has been ill applied throughout the Pannonian country; The Constitutional Court made a decision, and then you'll give back the money. But Mr. Erkoke didn't like the decision of the Constitutional Court: he criticized the ruling, saying that he deficits the police. Again, Security versus human rights. Much better to apply the law of mozzal; so that perhaps more authority is obtained: the violation of human rights, the reducing of human rights. I see that near PP's conception. So, a will in Madrid, a speech, here another application, another activity. It's obvious that you are interested in the application of the −mozal law, because it's efficient to reduce the rights to collect and signify, because it's efficient against protests and protects cops from disproportionate performances. And, of course, the police are given once a tool of this kind, it's hard to get it out of their hands. Instead of turning back, instead of quitting, you are asking us to adapt the law to eternalize it. And collect EH in that position doesn't agree, either here or in Madrid. We can't accept the arrangement, change, as Amnestiya Internationale says, because it's a mere make-up, because it leaves the law in it for the five most important parts. First, the principal hooks of the Mossal law, in the mistakes of disobedience and lack of respect; two, for the recording of the police in public places, are admitted to be an examination, because the three deadly material against the riots is allowed by the rubber balls; four, because a legal protection is given to keep the controls on the roads, and five, adds, that the Cartzels will be agents of authority. We, on our side, will defend this agreement of 2016 with more reason, because nothing has changed after these 45,000 applications. And in front of the organizations of Madrid, we shall do with all determination what is in our power to derogation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. First, I would like to say, in the name of my party, that we are in the way of making a complaint of the law of mozzal, and also because we shall direct the work of our government in this way, in order to prevent the abuse of the police. And we are strongly assured of this end, because in a democratic state no regulation can be admitted which excites the fear of the citizens in the execution of their fundamental political rights. To be afraid of demonstration in a peaceful way, precisely because of the possible companies, this is unacceptable in a democratic state. What we know as a law is, in reality, nothing more than the modification, the reform of the law of citizen security: a modification that was made in a very concrete social and political context, very determined. It is within the framework of the protests of the 15M, when citizens are organized, mobilized, making use of their fundamental rights channel their political concerns through street mobilization. Those who hold political power feel questioned, and some also fear the scope of the consequences of this movement. And, within the police, too, the truth is that the feeling of defence is spreading, for not having sufficient legal tools to neutralize these protests. The government of the People's Party, in isolation, also decides to listen to these voices, and what it does is to modify the law of citizen security in order, precisely, to give greater power, greater mechanisms of power to the police, in reality, to neutralize the power, the strength of these proposals. We must be careful what context it is, so that we can understand what all the leading challenges are at reforming this ley deceridad Ciudada. And in this case, one of these is not the only one, but one of them is −, and is very central, the answer to the public power which must be the answer to the mutations of the citizens. For this answer may be of two sorts: one, democratic: Create mechanism for listening to protests and conducting the demands of the citizens, another autoritary, repressive. The second is, based on an ordinary right-hand attitude, which the PP government used, if the law were to change too much police force, to ensure the immunity of the protests. And it's the first thing we defend. It's the democratic response in which... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... before him the immunity to ensure. And it's the first thing we defend. It is the democratic response that we, we, defend, believe is the right one in a democratic state: to listen to those who protest and create mechanisms not to repress, but to respond to citizens' demands. That is the right answer in any state that is said to be democratic. Because the answer to political problems can never be repression, but the creation of channels of political participation. In any case, and returning to the law gags, and earlier commented, in fact, it is a modification of the regulatory framework, which restricts the exercise of fundamental rights contained in the Constitution. And what needs to be ensured now, with the amendment of the Law on Citizen Security - previously amended by the law on gags - is to repeal the law on gags. In other words, ensuring the full enjoyment of fundamental rights and public freedoms for citizens. This implies a conception of fundamental rights, which implies that they can never be conditioned to an adulterated abstraction of social peace. Moreover, international treaties should be incorporated as a legal acquis that should also govern police action. In this regard, under this heading, I would like to highlight some issues. This same week, we learned that the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, in a letter addressed to the President of the Government of Spain, expressed her fear that the changes to the Law agreed today would not entail changes in terms of sanctions for resistance or disobedience to the authority - section 36.6 - of disrespect for police officers - section 37.4 - which, on the other hand, have constituted a large part of the sanctions imposed under the Citizens' Security Act. In addition, a large part of them were as a result of peaceful demonstrations and rallies. On the other hand, it should also be noted in this paragraph that the Constitutional Court itself has already declared article 36.23 unconstitutional, which provided for the unauthorized use of images or personal or professional data of the authorities or members of the security forces and bodies as a serious offence. There are more issues that are also important in addressing the necessary reform of the Citizens' Security Act, such as identification time at the police station; the concept of home registration; and the almost absolute truth criterion for statements by police and security officers. There are many things that deserve to be addressed. In any case, I believe that the compromise reached by the parties supporting the Government and ourselves reflects the fundamentals of these premises. Because this transaction says that "the Basque Parliament expresses the need to reform the Organic Law, that of citizen security, and that it supports the prompt parliamentary processing of its reform". He adds: "with the aim of having security legislation that meets international standards for the defence of rights and freedoms of citizens". That is why I think it is a good starting position that we can take from this Parliament, in relation to the reform of the Law on Citizens' Security, which, with all this, entails the repeal of the law on gags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u65	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Gordillo, as you well know - because let's say this is a common issue - there is usually no room for agreement between the right and the left, and between conservatives and security progressives. There may be this as a generic concept, but, in fact, it is not so in many aspects of regulation. And so it was manifested in the debate that took place on the Law in 2015, and so it is manifested today, and so it will be resolved today as well. Because citizen security is not just a set of rules; it is, above all, a way to interpret and develop the exercise of rights and freedoms, and a way to accompany those rights with their guarantees. To the right, to exaggerate insecurity, to apply what they call a hard hand, to put under suspicion the expressions and mobilizations that do not suit their economic and social interests is an objective that they are shaping every time they can, in this case, in the form of law. For the left, security protects the democratic exercise of rights, freedoms, gives them space and always tries to target risks and what actions must be taken in front of them. So today, the right wing in this House again warns about what they call unpunished pacts, and again points out that only their law faces the terrorist threat. And that is why what I said to you at the beginning of the intervention is once again: and that is that you always put security ahead and freedom afterwards; and we put freedom ahead and security at the service of that freedom. Mr Gordillo, as you have also said here, it is an almost academic question that should be asked: Why is this law called the law gag? Well, then, some circumstance, some reason for that to happen to history. The Socialists, indeed, want to amend this law. We want to widen the space for freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration. We want to widen the space for democratic guarantees, judicial guarantees. We want to modernise security, and we want to harmonise it with European best practices, so that security is applied with the greatest proportionality... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... judicial guarantees. We want to modernise security, and we want to harmonise it with European best practices so that security is implemented with the greatest proportionality. Socialists want to reform the 2015 law because we want to return citizens rights to the freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration that you cut, and that you did - if you remember it, if you look back - to reduce and silence other economic and social cuts that then occurred. As you can see, there is a certain parallel between the law of gags and austereicide, as there is between just recovery and freedoms. And that is also our current claim to reform. That is why we want to guarantee the security forces and bodies of the State and all police officers full legal certainty in the performance of their function, which they do not now have, and which they will have when the protocols and guides that offer them coverage and certainty in situations in which their performance is required are fixed. We also want, as I said earlier, to comply with national and European legislation, because we want to incorporate the indications of the Constitutional Court and of international bodies such as the Council of Europe. And therefore, our reform aims to reduce the maximum time for identification of persons in police units from six to two hours, except for exceptional and justified causes. He wants external body records to be done with discretion and to follow specific guidelines, and to act with specific protocols in the use of force and anti-disturbing material, always using the least harmful ones. With the reform we want those who communicate a meeting or demonstration for a purpose or purpose different from the one actually intended to be, to be responsible for the infringement. We want infringements to be in line with the nature and seriousness of their risks. We would like to see no infringement of the taking of images in places of public transit and in demonstrations, or their dissemination, provided that it does not affect personal data or the security of the authorities or security agents. We also want to ensure that there is no infringement of the lack of prior communication of a demonstration, when the exercise of that right is motivated by a need for rapid expression, while also making it clear that, in general, demonstrations must be communicated in advance of their celebration. The reform we propose does not eliminate the presumption of veracity of the testimony of the agents; the presumption continues to exist when the testimony is coherent, logical, reasonable, unless proven otherwise. The reform seeks to protect the work of agents well, and it wants to incorporate civil servants from prison institutions as agents of authority. We want penalties for fines to be weighted according to the economic capacity of the person responsible, including reductions and instalments of payment. And we want agents to improve in the media and in working conditions. Improvements that, by the way, go parallel to this reform, and that has led Spain today to have many more agents and means than seven years ago, when it occupied La Moncloa Rajoy. Thus, since 2018, we have created 13,000 police and civilian guard positions. We have invested EUR 600 million in state security infrastructure. Thus, we implemented the wage-equalization agreement for the state security forces and bodies, raising their salary by 20% by 2020; I warn you, in case you will then tell me, that this was an agreement made by Mr Rajoy's government, right, but that it left it without budget allocation - equally true - and that therefore it had only made the recommendation of the wage rise. It was the new government that put in the resources. Thus, today there are plans for the renovation and modernization of equipment, special plans for organized crime, complementary warning systems for certain types of violence, and plans for action and protection against gender-based violence, hate crimes or protection for vulnerable groups. Ladies and gentlemen, for socialists, freedom of peaceful expression without altering coexistence is compatible with the maintenance of public order, as citizen security is compatible with dialogue and agreement between different political forces. Because freedom and security is a collective heritage, and no party can twist those rights as it did in 2015, in absolute solitude, the People's Party. You've done a formal intervention; well, you've been picking up a little bit from here and there, so you don't get in a lot of flour. And he even said that of "a law that has so little time when security is something that tends to remain in time along with constitutions, how can it be reformed now?". You have forgotten to say that this law, in 2015, did not have the support of a single group in Parliament. Only the People's Group; neither do I support it Citizens. No one else. And when this reform was proposed it also had the support of the vast majority of parties, except for almost only the People's Party. Therefore, it is in that incommunicado, it is in that attempt to make "the street is mine", in that attempt to make "the law is the image of my political philosophy", which has caused, shortly after, that it is working mostly and unitarily with many political forces in the reform of this law. Because, even if you want to use the police in the midst of this, even if some talk about their support and others talk about impunity from the police, in fact the police do not enjoy impunity or anything: the police are a public service, a service to the citizen, which is governed by the law, and which is in the nature of the law, and therefore in the political responsibility of those who have the duty to make those laws, where is the responsibility for what happens on the street. And because security is not a police issue, but rather that security is an interpretation of how you live in a democratic society, of how rights and freedoms develop and of what guarantees there are for these to work and also how crimes are pursued when there is, that is why we are committed to making a good law that collects all that, putting freedom and rights ahead of security, and not as you want to do. And all I can do at this time of the debate is thank you for bringing this... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...freedom and security rights, and not as you want to do. And all I can do at this time of the debate is thank you for bringing this initiative here, because probably if it had not been for your initiative, it would not have helped us to have a major majority in this Parliament reinforce the need for such reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u66	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. First Vice President, Chief, Congressman, good day. Well, since the first minute of this discussion, we'll all be able to clear things up, then we'll vote against your proposal and protect our middle course, Mr. Gordillo. We're not going to abandon our initiative in Congress as you ask. The Jelt Party has so many laws to encourage the reform of the law for the safety of the people, not for the last two years. Many years, ma'am? ) there; many years. The reform process, of course, is going on and will continue. We'll go on with this reform process, so Mr. Gordillo, no surprise. We are not going to withdraw our initiative in the Congress of Deputies, as you asked us, a proposal that we have not tabled in 2020 alone, which we tabled in the 12th Legislature, 13th and now in the 14th. We've been through this for a while. And well, the truth is that despite the time that has passed and the various situations that have occurred to prevent the law from being processed, at the end of today, the reform process is underway and we are going to move forward and from the Basque Nationalist Party we will do everything in our power to keep that process going. Without going further, last Tuesday, if I have no misunderstanding, if I am not mistaken, the presentation for the study of the amendments that have been presented to our proposal for a law has been gathered. And they have met in Madrid, they have met in Madrid, which is where this debate touches, but well, you bring it here and we and we are not going to refuse it. As I told you, from the Basque Nationalist Party we come practically from the very moment when the Security Act was passed, claiming that this law represents a setback in the preservation of individual and collective rights of citizens. But the Basque Nationalist Party has not only remained in the denunciation, in the frontal position, we have acted. We have acted and we are acting. This law has been very polemanic, and still has been poemmatic. In our opinion, this law has no proper balance between security and freedom, but it does not maintain that balance. Strike rights, march rights, statement and freedom of information, rights to people who are looking for asylums... We do not agree with the treatment the law gives them. We don't agree. And the Basque Nationalist Party has acted in the Congress of Deputies by putting forward proposals for reform, and in that we continue, and as a result, you bring us this non-law proposal today. For our part, we hope that during the current legislature the General Courts will be able to complete the reform of the law. We hope that obstructive practices will not occur again and that the appropriate agreements can be reached for their reform, because we are very clear that we must change the law, and we hope that the changes that are finally approved will not be merely cosmetic, we hope that they will be silent and that they will go beyond mere adaptation to the rulings of the Constitutional Court. It is, of course, our desire and our bet. Mr. Gordillo, your proposal is discussed, discussed, and rejected, discussed on February 4th, 2021 in Congress. If the popular party had been used to present in the law the whole correction of reforms with the same arguments, you have introduced some subjects which have more direct relation to our surroundings, but in the end it is the same argument as then used. You from the People's Party want to turn the debate on the Security Act into a unique debate on the police. And to make that debate, which is a part, a part of everything, the centre of the debate. And this, in our opinion, is a clearly reductionist and interested view, why interested, for man, we are aware that it draws much more attention by calling the four winds that we will practically live in the most absolute insecurity if this law is touched, which is a totem for you, sells more, mediaically draws much more attention than talking about rights. Talking about rights draws much less attention. Sowing fear always attracts more attention from all of us and we, it is obvious, you have been practicing it for a long time. Mr. Gordillo, the reform of the law is not going to assume that our streets become a little less than the day of purge. No, it's not gonna be like that. It won't come, neither the apocalypse nor the anarchy will come on our streets. You are in that campaign from the very moment the reform of the law was launched. There is not yet an approved text, but for you, whatever the end result, then chaos will come. And it's not, and it's not going to be, it's not going to be. It brings us here the voice of the police unions, of some police unions. And we say to him: of course we must listen to the voice of the police unions, of course, more would be missing. But one thing is to listen to them, and another very different, is that the officials to whom we surrender the legitimate use of force, replace the legislator, very different... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It is that the officials to whom we surrender the legitimate use of force, replace the legislator, very different. Of course, we'll have to wait for the latest outcome of the reform process. The groups that protect the change of the law, we want to change the law with a different intensity, which is true. We have, however, a common end, to change the law, to achieve as great a balance as possible between rights, liberties, and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing the answer round, representative of the popular-Ciudad Group, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President, for these meetings, which should rather be called opposition control sessions. The truth is that it is okay, because they are clear, it is clear when it seems that one does not have many arguments and is dedicated to turning things around, and above all, not to contribute, and above all, to refute the arguments that have been presented, alluding to different issues, to feelings, for criticizing that such speeches, that if one goes there, that if one goes there, or in a reality I do not know whether parallel or from another planet that (?Take other groups. Look, as for Mr. Arzuaga's intervention, man, his plan in the background, the destruction of the police, right? Therefore, any initiative that proposes a reasonable legal framework for it to be able to carry out its work in an appropriate manner will clearly criticise it. And here it is curious, because the arguments that Mr Prieto has used apply quite to Mr Arzuaga's intervention; that is, he spoke... no, there are some rapporteurs... Indeed, there are opinions of rapporteurs, but there are no opinions of any body as such, specific. There may be associations that have their opinions, as there are other associations that have other opinions, but there is no specific pronouncement from any international authority that says that. It is, of course, like saying that since Mr Arzuaga has an opinion, the Basque Parliament already has that opinion. Well, man, nothing further from reality. Man, call me Police Spokesman. Well, listen, for me to be not at that height, I don't deserve that honor, but of course, if I have to put myself on the side of the police or ETA's errands, I'm very clear where I am, I'm very clear. It is tremendous that a group that together with the PSOE and others, that are almost all who are gathered here, almost all who are here, except us and the Joint Group, that are now critical of us for proposing that the law be kept in its terms, saying that this affects press freedom, when you all agreed to try to veto the presence of journalists who were uncomfortable with you in Congress, it is tremendous, it is tremendous, it is tremendous, it is tremendous. And then, Mrs Gorrotxategi, how many demonstrations have been banned in Spain?, what freedoms have not let you exercise under this law?, what freedoms have not let you exercise under this law? Man, for Mr Prieto, indeed, with the dialectic friend and enemy, the conservatives are the bad guys, the progressives, which I imagine he is included in that adjective and such, for it is they, they are the good guys and they are the bad guys. And I really liked your speech, because your speech you tune, by the way, conservative would be back to the law of 92, which is what you more or less want, but in the end. Of course, you say you want to amend this law, that they wanted to amend it, that they had no choice but to amend it. Listen, if you wanted to amend this law so much, why didn't the President of the Government introduce a bill to amend it?Why didn't the Socialist group introduce a bill in Congress, and has the PNV parliamentary group? If you really wanted to change it, why didn't you introduce it? Man, we all know the agreements and tolls that at the end have to pay also in the government. And it is curious to say that he wants to amend the law to give legal certainty, when precisely the modification of such laws in a temporary context certainly so brief, because it really does not help, does not help. And man, obviously with the issue of police and wage equality (?) effectively did so by the Rajoy government with a certain consensus and some other support, by the way, and of course, you, as you have thrown the PP from the government, because in fact, it did not execute that. But, well, I believe that in these kinds of issues..., and it pitys, because I believe that the Socialist Party, which at the time on these security issues, because there was a certain agreement and a certain consensus, because it seems that it wants to get away from this issue. And then, man, here I think the only one who has been really consistent, apart from our group, of course, has been Mr Atutxa, that what the Basque Nationalist Party wants is a cosmetic police, an equivalent to a municipal police, don't bother, don't bother, don't bother, don't bother, right? And in the end, that's what it's all about, isn't it? And then, well, there are some who do not like my speeches and so on, others as they are already very prepared from home, then it gives them something to change, but in the end, I think the parliamentary debate is interesting, and here above all the conclusion, apart from the initiative that is finally approved, which is that of the groups that support the government, together with Podemos, who is another partner, has missed me that Bildu is not there, but well, at the same time... Is that despite the social destabilization that some groups often contribute to being held (?) to the police themselves, despite attempts at social destabilization, despite the lack of means, and despite the desire to deprive them of an adequate legal framework, there is no doubt that the police will be there to guarantee all their freedoms, ladies and gentlemen, without any distinction, and they will do so, moreover, with the utmost respect for the law and the legal system, as it could not otherwise be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Precisely gag and leave defenseless our state security forces and bodies, that's what you want with the reform you've insisted on calling law... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... Madam President. Precisely gag and leave defenseless our state security forces and bodies, that is what you want with the reform you have insisted on calling law gag. A law that is the only instrument that protects those who guard our security, who are responsible for curbing terrorist threats and street riots. The problem is they're already seeing what's coming over them. They are getting nervous, because they have found that the Spaniards have already been betting on the change of the political map of this country. They want to unprotect our police because they are already in pre-campaign mode, preparing their hordes for the asphalt of the streets when they occupy the seat of the position to be a reality. Mr. Arzuaga, isn't freely broadcasting videos of service police officers leaving them unprotected? To question their version is not to leave them up to bitumen, to leave them without any authority? Security versus human rights says. Whose human rights? Our security forces, right? That said, all they care about is protecting their own puppies and their own. Mr Prieto, exaggerate insecurity and put freedom of security ahead. Make no mistake: security and freedom go hand in hand. In the Basque Country, everyone knows that Vox has the only way to freely exercise our rights on the street is surrounded by security. Or have you not seen the deployment that is required of us in order to carry out any legal political concentration? Remember what the radical left did to Vox in Mondragon? I was there, and I can assure you that the stones and pieces of metal did not cause any more damage because our Ertzaintza was there protecting us. Is that freedom or is it libel? I also remember a Vox rally in Madrid, where hordes of violent soldiers led by Podemos escorts violently attacked Vox leaders and supporters. Is that freedom or is it libel? I think there's a fine line between one thing and another that you have to value and analyze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u72	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. You said you accepted reform on the way to nothingness. Good. We'll wait for you on the objective of our annihilation, which will be our defense, both here and Madrid. And therefore I will not defend the decision which you have made, because I prefer to remain here in 2016; and I am bound to this agreement. We'll do it until the last minute to eliminate this reform star in Fernández. Mr Gordillo, it is not control of the opposition, it is to note that you are very lonely in your opinion, however much the sight gives a technical varnish. We forgot this law was designed by an ultra. The ineffable Jorge Fernández Díaz passed this law. And a few days later, in his delirium, in his diversion, he awarded the medal of police merit to the Blessed Virgin of the Dolores. I don't know if as a premonition or advance of what would come next with your application. And just for that, I think it already deserves to be repealed. The law is applauded by the majority of police unions, because in their corporate struggle increases the impunity of their affiliates. And they are concerned about their lack of protection or their defencelessness if they are cut off from certain tools or weapons that this law gives them, but I do not see the same concern for the rights of citizens, already cut off by this law. More police tools without any repair of what their consequences will be. Mr. Atutxa says he's positioned himself in the frontal opposition to this law. To be in the frontal opposition to this law, 45,000 Basque citizens sanctioned by this law seems too much to me. And, moreover, for many of the most contested violations, moreover, because they limited, injured human rights, or civil, basic political rights. The law violates, but it will tell me, "The law is to fulfill it." So did Mrs Beltran of Heredia. And, in fact, it was difficult to prevent ertzainas or municipal police from not applying it, not making the attestations. But the question is that the sanctioning resolution was dictated by the director of the Ertzaintza; that is, Mr Gabirondo, then Mr García, and finally, today, Mrs Victoria Landa. Charges of trust. And they might not have done so, at least in the way they did in the sanctioning resolution. Also those attested by municipal police, even in municipalities that we ruled, were reviewed by the director of the Ertzaintza today. And, I say again, they have never made a purge, a filter, based on human rights. And in any case, if they weren't going to look for ways to fulfill it, I don't know what they voted for that 2016 agreement for. As we say, we are going to hasten as much as possible to repeal, not reform, this law gags. For five reasons: for any person who protests - young, student, worker -, unjustly sanctioned or punished for exercising political rights; for that neighbour who charges disproportionate police action with his motive and uploads it to the networks, so that he can continue to do so, because, from our point of view, that is the best body of control and transparency of police action; for all citizens who have suffered and continue to suffer armed roadside controls, because this reform perpetuates them; for the imprisoned person who sees their rights injured, because from now on, prison officials are regarded as agents of the authority and, therefore, their presumption of veracity is imposed on the version that the arrested person may give; and fifth, because the use of lethal anti-disturbing material, such as rubber balls, is maintained. And we will do it for all their victims, because we have memory: for Rosa Zarra, for Iñigo Cabacas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours. [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u75	Thank you, Mr. President, again. Mr. Gordillo, lately you're enjoying saying this from control to opposition. It is not about monitoring and monitoring and opposing the opposition, it is about responding to their initiatives. Not agreeing with your initiatives does not mean that we are monitoring your action, we are simply telling you that we do not agree with your proposal, and that we have an alternative proposal. He also said, among other things, that there are no recommendations or criteria contrary to what we call the law gags, underestimating, in a way, the value of what the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe or the Venice Commission itself tells us. It is true that they are advisory bodies, their decisions or recommendations do not have a direct binding legal value, but it is also true that they are part of the acquis of the Council of Europe, which is then incorporated in the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which are binding and legally binding on all Member States. Therefore, not to underestimate the manifestations of other very important international bodies also in the defence of human rights, as could be Amnesty International, but even to do so with such bodies, for the truth is that it does not seem right to me. Best kontu beats deuseztatzearen age reformers in guruan. Ez will say gauza kontrajarriak, era hori bai nahiko nuke nik bear argi jarri, azpimarratu and we will go esan. Lehen esan dugu Law on Citizen Security Erreformatzearekin beats etorri zen law bites bezala ezagutzen dugun hori. In other words, the law is the result of an amended part of the Law on Citizen Security, and a derogation, the repeal of a rule, especially when it is part of another rule that is also basic, is one of the necessary elements in the State, which is the Law on Citizen Security, a derogation always comes through a reform. To repeal, we need to reform. It's the way. The purpose is the repeal, that is, to remove any authoritarian vestiges introduced in the Law on Citizen Security, to which we have given, to the set of authoritarian norms that we have given the name of law gag. That is, the repeal of the law is the end, the way it is through the reform of the Law on Citizen Security. And that's what I'd like to leave very, very fixed, because I think they're not processes, they're not different and contrasting paths or tactics, but one is part of the other. The important thing, the important thing in this matter, that is, how far we are going to get in the reform of the Law on Citizen Security, which will allow, in fact, to repeal the law gags. That's the point. And there we will be, of course, and that is why we also wanted to introduce the issue of the democratic standards of the Council of Europe, because I believe they would help us to achieve this effective repeal of the law. I hope that all the political actors called upon to participate in the reform of this law will also act in that line that allows us to say that we have abrogated the law gag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u77	President, ladies and gentlemen, look, Mr Gordillo, from professor to professor, and it is not with me, I am not the teacher. According to the professor of criminal law of the University of Distance Madrid, Mr Fernández de la Fuente: "I believe that reform is necessary, there must be a balance between the security of police officers and the right of citizens to manifest themselves and to express themselves freely and to control possible police excesses". Now, from professor to professor, neither am I. Professor of Criminal Law of the University Carlos III, Jacobo Dopico, says that "This law that (?) created from nothing a number of infringements that did not exist in the law on the protection of citizens' security between 1992 and 2015. From 26 violations in the 1992 law we went to 43, some of them with a frightening lack of legal certainty." I don't know either the professor or the professor, they're either phylocommunists or guinea pigs or you're going to know what, but one is a professor, the other is a professor, and they have opinions like those that you profess, but to the contrary, I say from the same academic authority, since it affects us all, except you, that when we come here to debate, we already come with the lesson learned, preconceived, we're rigid, we don't have the capacity to get into the debate. Only you are able to do so, and that is why I felt so small that I had to resort to a teacher and a professor so that at least the debate is at the level you require. Look, pay equity. It's not that we execute it because we throw them out of the government, no. Salary equalization as a concept was approved by you. The problem is that they didn't give him a budget, learn it, he didn't have a budget, that's what we had to do, put a budget in it. Look, there is no worse favor for security, there is no worse favor for the agents of authority, there is no worse working climate for the forces and security forces of the State, than to subject them permanently to a certain identification with the excesses of their work, with disproportionateness, with subjectivity, with the lack of clear protocols when it comes to acting, with the proliferation of sanctions, as I have just reminded you, with the lack of effective judicial protection. I mean, all these bumps that you included, and I say you even though you weren't, but that you included in the law of 2015, it's the one that gives insecurity to the agents of authority, and it's the one that... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... but that you included in the law of 2015, it is the one that gives insecurity to the agents of authority, and it is the one that causes, permanently, a conflict or, on many occasions, a conflict between what are rights, freedoms and what is security. And in this situation in which you (did you commit?)). And it would be good if the police unions, all those who express themselves strongly in favour of the 2015 Act, would also reflect on these things that are happening and that, in fact, are the things that we want to correct. Look, you didn't like conservatives and progressives. Well, if you want me to tell you in another way: you know the turtle when it's on the ground, because of its heaviness and the shape of its feet, it feels very safe. Well, I think that's no reason for eagles to cut their wings, or even seagulls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u78	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. The topic of the popular group today-Ciudadans brings us is to stop the reform. There's a suggestion from the Jeltzaan Party that stops. Mr. Azuga, that's the topic today, that's the topic. You read the deal in 2016. Yes, it's true, this agreement doesn't mean anything about reform. No, he doesn't say anything. And this is a question, yes, of the law of the Mossal law, but a proposition of the Reformation of the Law of Mozal, and of the Journal of the Eucus. That's why we think that agreement doesn't come to the case today. Fortunately, we are at another point, both the Jelt Party and the Basque People, and all the parliamentary groups in this House. We are all taking part in the Congress of Deputies in the reform of the law. I understand that you, Mr. Arzuaga, here, like to continue to give that image of rebellion: No, we repeal, no reform. You are amending in Madrid, and you are submitting reform proposals and amendments. They have been doing so since 2017. They tabled an amendment of the whole and alternative text. Mrs Gorrotxategi has explained it to you clearly, and you are in the same game as everyone else. He has a problem between theory and practice, very serious. You have a problem between theory and practice, Mr. Arzuaga. You want to present yourself in a way, but Euskal Herria Bildu - with all her right and legitimacy - is presenting amendments, which we will discuss, of course. I hope we wake up. But you don't need to come here saying "no, I..., no, us and us not, no, nothing to amend, nothing at all. No, no, no, we're out of there." No, no, you've been amended like all the groups we're here, each and every one of them, exactly the same. It must accompany more theory and practice, in my humble opinion. Finally, and for not extending this debate further where the positions are very clear, I would like to thank, on behalf of our group, for the willingness of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza group to reach an agreement. Because today's goal, and I think we've identified almost all the groups well, well, some came with the goal of buzzing the PNV government, but those of us who have the real goal of transforming and reforming that law, we've come to that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u80	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Now that the discussion has ended, we will put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the opponents are 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u81	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote for the Mistsa team's rights of modification. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the opponents are 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u82	So it's not accepted. We'll vote for the full rights of the EH team. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 21. The contrary, Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u83	Not accepted. And finally, together with Podemos Ankerz, Eukal Sozialists, and Eucabertians, we vote for the intermediate corrections that have been signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 45; oppositions, 28; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u84	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull yourself together as a parlamentary group's proposition about the reforming of the surgical block in the hospital. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u85	Good afternoon. And I'd like to take my leave of you to begin our rounds and welcome the City Council of Siceliot, Irung, and the Mayor of Lesaca, the Council of Burgundy. To be honest, we thought it would not be necessary to bring this as a whole to discuss the matter before it came to this point. Pensábamos que el theme se sorcionarianía y no longer needed materializar el debae de hoy. "Pero no ha sido asi, y es una morta." It's a pity because what's going on is a very basic thing, and what's the subject of discussion? The question is, to postpone the beginning of the work, to stop the works, until we agree on the criteria and the progress of the work upon the revolution of the surgical block, and to agree with the professional health which has been solved. We think it's minimum to sit around a table and talk. There was no need to get to where we came from. And where did we get to? We have come to the point that Osakidetza and the Department of Health have managed to anger all parties that in a way affect this work. It has angered the health professionals of the hospital, 95% disagreed with how it will be carried out, neither with the work nor with the consequences that it will have in the future and in the service that will be wasted. Then I will delve into this point. He has angered the oncologist, angered OSI Donostialdea, angered the affected municipalities, the community and the citizenship of OSI Bidasoaldea. That's just why, that's all, I'd have to make him reflect and stop Osakidetza's management and the Department. They'd have to make them recapacitate. We didn't really think the point was that way. Because we, as I said before, have been focusing on our first focus. But we began to collect information, we went to investigate − Arbogast, we asked for a meeting with the Osacident, and now, not troubled, we're worried about what's going on. We're afraid to see what management, how management is being, how it's being done, the documents, when a work like this is done, are not related to anyone, seeing that the hospital service is being sold to us, but we see that the services are going to be reduced, even the surgery. When a work of this size is presented, it should include the type of service to be provided, the type of intervention for how many people. It's important the type of intervention to see how to equip these ORs; but we don't even have that, we don't have that. Finean, Ikusten duguna da diru publikoaren ebilera ok bat ego from her. Zehaztu gabe zein den Bidasoako Hospitallearen proyektua ep ertain eta lucera begira; zehaztu gabe ep ertain-luze horretan Bidasoako inguruari ba biztanleriaren ezaugarriak zentzuk izango diren, biztanleria horri sontzuteko zer-nolako zerbitzuak beharko ditugun eta abar. However, it is true, and I must confess, and we must confess, that we all agree, that we all need to re-establish the surgical block, because it has become old and has to be renewed. But if we go into a play like that, we'll have to make things right, won't we? It's a pain to do things right. That's all we ask. First of all, we should define our destination. The population of the Bidasis has increased since the hospital was built; we do not know what will happen in the next few years, we know that the population will grow older, but only see what is going on. And we need to know what surgical blocks need to answer. And for that purpose, a table should be set to work with the municipal delegation, with the representatives of the community, professional health, when it concerns the population. Por cine, razíais que la pasa que planatemos no es unaventada? "Sino que man de órganos para de vanir, para decidir con las partas prosdas en la comunidad, la ins insitiones, está regeida en elcreto 100/2018, de 3 de julio, en la regulan las Osi? Está recogida como el Consejo Social, artículos 21, 22.23 y 24. Es un Decreto. In the second place, the destination defined by − should be defined sooner than −; for the path is conditioned by the goal. And since this government has not defined the destination properly, it has not been able to define the way. Consequently enormous damages can be produced by the quality of the service, in the patient's clinical security, etc. It's not functional, it's not. To find out the items you need to solve to move the down activity forward, to guarantee the patient's clinical security. This is the essentialst, the most essential, the most necessary documents. Look, to ensure the patient's clinical security is a strategy, he has a document. And there's two possibilities. It's an opportunity when something happens... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... He has a strategy, he has a document. And there's two possibilities. It's an opportunity when something happens that it goes to a table that's formed for that purpose, and then it's examined, and there's a solution to prevent it from happening again. And the other alternative is, that which is received, before the works of that man, the new service or action of that man, or whatever they may be, will be examined in all respects by examining all possible factors, in order to avoid the danger. And it's supposed to be a member of the family that always has to do this, always, always. But we saw he didn't. And this is the most important document. The only thing we know is that all activity is going to Onkological. That's all we know. Now we've found out something like that, that is, that it's making a similar document, a document like a planal document, because professionals sent a memo with their troubles, and it seems that on the 15th of March they'll make that document public. And they're not modes, they're not modes. Bestetik, guk galdetuta patientaren securtasun klinikoaren txostenaren inguruan horrela weretzun zigun Osasun Sailak: "clinical safety would be compromised if the works were matched with attention. The performance of surgical activity in a functioning hospital such as Onkologikoa already ensures adequate conditions for the performance of this surgical activity. There is no clinical safety report as such." That's the answer the council gave us. By the way, lie; it's not true. We are not health professionals, but on our team we have many and many health professionals and they know that this is not true. And we also know Osakidetza's strategy, and the document is very clear about it, as the document says. Por lo dot, I'd ask you that we're in love with the things that we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about. "Si la actividad se va allvar al Onkologicala, hay un amontón de preguntas que hay que responderlas, que hay que aclarlas." Don't tell him what a fool you are. What measures will be taken in order to maintain modern growth times and quality? Let's do this project (...) ? Es decir, ha ha ha ha el Proyecto del análisis modal de fallos y efectos? How many surgery rooms can be used in the morning and how many afternoons? Will emergency take care of it? How many beds are available to the patients at the Bidasoa for the patients after the operation? How does local blood bank and pathological anatomy work for services? Por cyto, there's no such thing as pathological anatomia service or onkological service. I can keep asking questions a long time. And there's another question: How is this going to affect the Onkological? The ideal should be a autographic character center. You don't understand now that the Onkological is going to meet this project. And one thing, you don't even understand why the Onkological is able to answer this project, why, during the whole pandemia, the Kirghiz of the St. Someone should explain that too. More questions. 120 workers will be sent to the Onkological staff. And how many professionals with surgery block-block and related specialities will there be during every job to take care of the hospital emergency wards? We don't know that either, we don't know. Who's going to take care of them on the floors? We don't know that either. We have some questions that are not yet solved. On the other hand, the information we're getting is extremely troubling, and shows the chaotic management of this work, the low management, the privatist, and a reduced service. And we're looking at the great resemblances that have been made with other hospitals in other countries. And what do we know and what are we seeing? We have learned that the pathological anatomical anatomia will be removed from the Bidasium Hospital, and it is not planned to maintain this service. Without pathological anatomical anatomia, there is therefore a great limit to the surgical effects which can be performed; This is happening in most of the local hospitals very slowly. If this happens, then, it is not certain that the talent of the Bidas will continue in the Bidas, it is not true that new surgery will increase. And I'd like to go deeper on this point, see what apathomy means. The centralization of pathological Anatomy, the reduction, reduces the quality in the patient's surgery. A few years ago we reported what had happened at the Hotel de Debare. We asked some of the written questions where the patient kept open to examine the sample while he was sending it to the Gasteize. And we will not accept these practices, which we will not accept. Por cyto, Mendron, Arrunt, kurgis are on the gas, and it's not because it's missing and it's not because it's not because of the pandemos. And the question is: Is the vida going the same way? Is that the project for the Bidasaurus? We don't know what the project is. We don't know what the goal is. We also know that, as long as the work lasts, the sterilization of the surgical materials in Onkological is going to be done at the Bidasoa Hospital. It doesn't belong to any hospital, it doesn't allow it. The same thing that happened in the evening, we had terrible problems, and finally we managed to put the sterilization into it. And who, by the way, is going to make a mess of this material? Who? A private company? The parking lot used in the Trauma are extremely big. Another example and question: the time-consuming urgency cannot be done by the Oncological; where is it going to be done?... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] They're big. Another example and another question. Delayed urgency cannot be done by the oncologist; where will it be done? Is it going to be done at Donostia Hospital? Is it going to be done at the Polyclinic? Where's it going to be? I can go on for a long time. I have a lot of questions that are unsolved, and which ought to be explained before the work begins. But we think that we have given many instances and seen significant instances, one: that the improvement of the surgical block is not really supposed to be a improvement, but that it is a reduction of service; that the work is to take advantage of certain privatizations, three: that the keys attached to the patient's security are incomplete and unspecified; that it is a work that has not been shared and established. So, from the point of view of this situation, how much does it cost, how much does it cost, how much does it cost to stop the works and arrange them all round a table? Enter destination? Answer any questions you can ask? Defining everything? Does it cost you that much? How much is needed from 2010, what is this work all around in 2010, in order to do this work that hangs on 2010 now? And we think all these questions must be answered.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u87	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. Firstly, to say that what we have come to request in the transactional both EH Bildu and my parliamentary group is nothing new. It has already been made public by the workers of different social groups, as well as by different institutions, what we come here today to support both groups. And it is that we request the immediate cessation of what has been the bidding of the work of that project, which we believe as you have defined right now will only bring harm to the health service in terms of the quality that it offers at the Hospital del Bidasoa. I am going to refer to an institutional statement by the Irun City Council which, with the exception of EAJ/PNV, was signed by all the groups represented there. He said, first of all, and referring to the lack of information, that the counsellor had not detailed the necessary answers to the questions posed by the city council, and, secondly, that it had not been possible to hold an interinstitutional meeting offering the required information. It goes on to say that, having received no such minimum explanations, the project is requested to be halted. There is a broad consensus in political terms in the Bidasoa region regarding the need to paralyse the project to which we are referring. Where's the Socialist Party? And I do want to make a direct mention, bearing in mind that the Irun City Council is governing alongside us and that it has expressed itself against, against, publicly, the materialization at this time of this project as defined. And that, moreover, it is not publicly that it was manifested, in the end, with soft words in relation to the lack of information in this regard that the councilwoman is providing, in this case, to the Irun City Council specifically. And, therefore, we want to ask where they are. Because what we do know is the text they have signed today with the PNV on this issue. And basically, he doesn't come to say anything. That is to say, it comes to say - and I am going to make an assessment of it in order to explain why we are going to vote against - it comes to say that under no circumstances will such a project, which has already been requested on 15 December, be paralysed, that the information to be given in this regard will obviously be given to the relevant workers, which is obviously the case, - it is surprising that to this day it has not yet been done - and that once that has been done, it will be passed on to the relevant institutions and bodies or to the social groups that have conformed to this effect. A posteriori, when the tender has already been awarded, when the project is launched, which is also expected to be launched in March, and when the work begins to be executed and to form and materialize, then it is when we start the dialogues and the sharing with the institutions and with the different collectives. It seems to us that it is, basically, the same thing that is happening today, that is, nothing. What they offer to the groups that support the Basque Government at the moment regarding what is being asked of the citizens in the region of Bidasoa, which in this case, moreover, will have its translation into a mass demonstration, the second already, this same Saturday, because to that they answer is nothing, that is, to follow exactly the same as until now, not to transmit information or that which is to be transmitted, of course, will not alter what has to do with the materialization of the execution of the work that has already been bid. Mrs Ubera has already raised many of the doubts which are currently on the table and which have not been resolved. I've already formulated to the counselor some directly at last week's control plenary. And the truth is, he didn't come to answer any of them. One of them had to do with what was the reason why a transitional annex was not proposed for the duration of the 18 months of execution of the work, an annex that would enable the surgical service to be maintained at the Bidasoa Hospital at this time. And the truth is that this question was not answered in this full control, beyond saying that the relevant technical services – today, we still don't know which ones – have determined that architecturally such a thing cannot be done. But we don't know any information about it beyond we've... regardless of whether we have asked about it. We do know that examples similar to these have occurred elsewhere and that the bidding of the work has even been paralysed. In Zumarraga a similar project was intended, the bidding of the work was stopped to make a transitional annex while they lasted... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...takes place to paralyze the bidding of the work. In Zumarraga a similar project was intended, the tender for the work was stopped in order to make a transitional annex for the duration of the works. And we do not understand why there is no answer here or why it is not clear exactly what the reasons are for this alternative that the workers themselves are asking in the Hospital del Bidasoa, why it is not put in place, or why at least the reasons why it cannot be done in a well-founded and motivated way are attested to. There is concern, however, that as soon as we do not have such a surgical service, the reality is that today we do not know how these transfers are going to be made to the oncological, that is, beyond the fact that the oncological is going to provide such a service, we do not know how these transfers are going to be made to the oncological; the risk that it can pose in terms of health for those who suffer a health emergency and have to be transferred to the oncological, with what it entails of distance and time; the loss in the service and in the quality that it can assume that the oncological, who is not conditioned to provide the same service, is from now on to the provider; what is going to happen to the workers, to whom it is not being answered, especially to those who are now acting and acting, and what is going to happen also to the families who are going to have to visit their family members if they have to be transferred to the oncological, with what it means, and more to move from those who have fewer capacities. And all this has not been answered. There has been no interest on the part of the Department in sitting even with the elected representatives in the region of Bidasoa, and we believe that there is an entirely partisan exercise there, in this case by EAJ-PNV, which curiously, of all the municipalities that make up the region of Bidasoa and beyond, only one municipality has not been positioned in relation to the request for information, even though the municipality that curiously, where the Hospital del Bidasoa is located, had more information about that project, because that is where the request for a work license was made, which is the City of Hondarribi, curiously. We understand that what is here is a partisan exercise in all light, and of course, that it is not responding to the needs and requests of those who live in that region. We would also like to make a call here that the request made by our parliamentary group to appear in relation to the Councilwoman should be supported as soon as possible so that these questions can also be resolved at that meeting, beyond a full control, or that, failing that, the Councilwoman, as I have already said, meets once and for all with the representatives and social groups of the region, or, failing that, that the functional plan, which, as Mrs Ubera has already said, is not known today, may be made public. And we would like that functional plan, if it is done, because what we have been told is that it is being developed, if it is done, that it is being made public or that it is being transmitted to the interested parties and to the interested parties, that at the moment they do not know how the project is going to develop, and what conditions or conditions this project is going to involve for all patients of the Hospital del Bidasoa. Therefore, we are not asking with the transactional anything new. We believe that there is a broad and majority consensus in the region of Bidasoa, both institutional and social, on the need to paralyse this project that will begin to be implemented in the near future, and that the Basque Department and Government will feel, speak with the interested parties and with the interested parties, give all the relevant information, make public the functional plan that has not yet been made public today, and that of course, before starting the process of execution of the work, ensure that the service will continue to be provided under the same conditions and with the same quality as today we consider that it is not, that it is not being established or that the conditions are not being established for it to be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the popular group of Basques, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief, good morning. First, I want to say hello to all the people who came from Bithynia. And I have to say that this subject was interesting in December, and that is why Muriel Larre presented himself as alderman at the City Hall of Irun, and asked the chief physician of health about this subject. First, to greet all those who have approached from the region of Bidasoa, and of course, are following this debate with interest and concern. And also a debate that, of course, I think we need to address in this Parliament, as I said. Already at the time the president of the PP of Gipuzkoa, and in her day also councillor of the Municipality of Irún, and who knows very well the county, Muriel Larrea, already asked a question in December to the councilwoman on this issue, and in which the intentions of the Department of Health of the Basque Government in relation, as I said, to this question were clearly glimpsed. I am not going to say that if things can be done worse, but what is clear, that in this matter things have not been done well, especially taking into account the answers of the professionals themselves, the technicians, those who know about this matter, those who are working on this surgical block of the Hospital of Bidasoa, as well as the affected citizens themselves and the citizens of the region. This issue is not a new one. We have been in the process of awarding the works for more than ten years, at this time in tender, as the spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word have pointed out. And, above all... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... the process of awarding the works, at this time in tender, as the spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word have pointed out. And, above all, the concern lies, apart from not having counted with the professionals themselves, that there has been no information, that there is no functional plan - now there can be a functional plan mage, but neither do we know. It has not been a process with sufficient guarantees, as I said, with information. And, above all, the concern of where these surgeries move, right? Right now, it looks like they're moving to Onkologikoa Hospital. What I do not know is also a question of transferring this issue to Onkologikoa, beyond the fact that there are also voices about what the policy of this department is in relation to Onkologikoa. But leaving that matter - in relation to Onkologikoa - aside, because it is not the debate, of course, that worries us, the closure of these operating rooms and the transfer to Onkologikoa has raised a concern, and I think logically, for the citizens of the region. There are also issues that are not clarified, as has also been said in some way from this rostrum, how the transfers are to be made. We all know that the communication between this region..., as can be witnessed by the people who are from that region and who are also present in this House, I think we all know that, also those who go to this region or pass to France on many occasions, the traffic is very dense in this area, the communications with Donostia are not easy and are also not frequent, there is no direct bus. We therefore understand that, on this issue, the Basque Government has not done the duties that must have been done, neither in time nor with the diligence that must, of course, have been done. Above all, taking into account the importance of this issue. Above all, also bearing in mind that the intention of the Basque Government itself and Osakidetza is that we do not know whether... But, in principle, for the information we have, it's that there's going to be the same number of ORs, more ORs, forgiveness, in the same space, if that's the case. Because it is also true that we are talking, in any case, about modernization. This of the word modernization does not really know what it implies. Because, in any case, from the group that I represent and from the People's Group in the area and with representation also in the Irún City Hall, we understand that when we talk about modernization we have to be talking, clearly, about expanding this surgical block, and that, obviously, the surgical block and this type of surgery, the surgeries that are performed, obviously, lend themselves to a better quality than they currently lend themselves to, because, obviously, there is a need to renew this surgical block, but to make a new surgical block better. On the other hand, more municipalities - known - will be incorporated into this area. We are talking about an already dense area of population, an area of approximately 100,000 inhabitants, which, in addition, new municipalities are incorporated into this OSI. We are talking about almost 50,000 more inhabitants. What we do not know either is whether the capacity of this new surgical block will be sufficient to meet this possible demand for the population that can come. We do want to say, clearly, that we agree with the need to undertake these works. Obviously, they have to be realized. Moreover, it is a long-awaited issue. Nobody escapes that if there is a need ten years ago, with the assistance demand that there is at the moment, of more aging population, of modernization of many equipments at the technological level and, above all, what has to do with the surgery, because obviously, if this need was ten years ago on the table, now, obviously, it is more urgent to tackle it. But we have to deal with it properly and in a way that is, as I said, correct. Y's feely, he's different. Se ha llegado a un accerdo por part of del grupo Together between Podemos and EH Shades signed an agreement. And we must discuss that we vote for this agreement. And it is plain that Bidasa is to improve the surgical block of the hospital; but not to improve alone, to modernize, as I have said, but to increase and improve. On the other hand, at this moment I believe that it is proper to suspend until everything is cleared up, and we vote for this definite proposition. Therefore, we believe it appropriate, in the terms of the agreement signed between EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can, in relation to the need to reform the surgical block of the Bidasoa Hospital, to meet the needs of the area, above all the growing needs in relation to the ageing of the population, technical improvements - issues that I have referred to in my speech - and to paralyse the works, at this time, until, obviously, all the issues that we have put on the table, which have been put on the table not only by the groups we have talked about so far in this forum, but by the professionals directly affected and by the citizenship of the area, well, as they can be taken into account. And that you can't pose a work that is already bid without, obviously, planning. And the most obvious fact is that there isn't a functional plan on the table or there hasn't been until now, and it looks like there's something like a functional plan, but we don't know it either. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u90	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u91	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, say hello to the... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, to greet the guests who are in this Parliament. I, when I prepare an initiative, usually one of the sources of consultation that I use is the very database of this Parliament to document me with the different questions and answers that have been formulated on the matter that we are going to deal with. And in this case it has done the same, noting that no group had raised any questions on this matter before the month of October. This - do not misunderstand me - is no reproach to the work of the parliamentary groups, but I bring it to this debate to highlight something that is undeniable: the project for the renovation of the operating rooms of the Hospital del Bidasoa did not generate any doubt, any concern, to the parliamentary groups of this House until October. In fact, even in the press, one can still find statements from union representatives who supported that if the operating theatres were renewed in several phases allowing surgical operations, there would be a risk of viruses, bacteria and fungi coming out, and therefore it would require a lot of separation of the work from the operating theatre, but it is a risk that should not be taken. Just like other union voices who said they thought it was understandable that Osakidetza did not see it viable. But the truth is that we are in February 2021 and today the situation is different. Both in Irun and in the rest of the municipalities of influence of the hospital has been generating a climate of doubts and discomfort, which has even come to sow the doubt about the continuity of the services that are now provided in the hospital after the reform, and which already has its reflection in a social mobilization that has been demanding more information and answers about this project. And I think this forces us to make a first thought. When we come to a situation like this, we see, simply and plainly, that something has failed. Socialists believe that our best contribution can and should be to try to channel the situation through dialogue, through receptivity to the issues that arise, in order to achieve among all the shared objective of continuing to provide quality assistance to citizens in the Hospital del Bidasoa. For us this is a goal to preserve because the Hospital del Bidasoa has been offering over 30 years a good service to the citizens of Irun, Hondarribia and five of Navarra's villas. And our aim is to continue to do so and even to increase the number of benefits in the portfolio of services offered to citizens. And to guarantee the future of this hospital is necessarily to adapt the infrastructure to the new challenges and realities that we have on the table. And all this with dialogue with the professionals and the institutions involved. There is a shared basis, which is that no one questions the need to renew the surgical block to adapt it to current needs, ensure efficient and safe patient care or the surgical waiting list. And the Basque socialists also believe it is necessary, among other things, to address the improvements in technology that will allow for an increase in the major outpatient surgery, as well as the reality of the aging of our population, which will increase the need for other surgeries in the coming years. Therefore, the problem is not that no one questions the need to adapt that infrastructure, the questioning comes... the questioning has come in how to do it. And I said this at the beginning of my speech, here there is no more secret than to implement dialogue, dialogue with the professionals and the institutions involved. That is why we call for both in our amendment. First, let the department have the conversations to be held with the professionals affected by the renovation works of the operating theatres. There are specific approaches that we are aware of, issues that have been raised and are already being assessed. And therefore, we believe that it is necessary for the department to have discussions with these professionals to arrive at a scenario in which doubts are dispelled and all the questions that have been raised are clarified. And, secondly, once this is done, that it moves to the institutions of the region of Bidasoa, to the municipalities, the information relating to the project and establishes a dialogue with them with the shared objective of continuing to offer quality assistance to the citizens. Because this inter-institutional dialogue is also important, because from the municipalities it is also possible to make a clear translation of local concerns and citizens' demands. We have said this at the previous point, we come from a situation in which pandemic fatigue makes citizens much more sensitive to the discomfort and changes they may experience in care services such as this. The change in the tendency of the virus encourages us to be optimistic and to see closer the moment of recovery of the assistance normality. And a moment like this is also the propitious one so that, as a result of this dialogue, we can analyze among the institutions the different health needs within the continuous process of improvement of Osakidetza, to know first hand their contributions and those that the social entities and agents of the region have transferred to them. We are convinced that that is the way and that is the way we are going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, all of it. First of all, I'd like to remark the importance of this matter that we're discussing today for our team, wouldn't I? For the people to us are our priority, and it is necessary for us to guarantee a higher health service. That's why the initiative we're discussing today is important because we're talking about a project that wants to improve the health of the people. I'd like to begin, and I'd like to remark with the point we all make together and the aphyrgation: That the surgical block in the hospital needs adaptation, right? By this assertion we all agree, and I think that we ought to put our strength there. The hospital at Bidasa has had the need of a number of other Basque hospitals, it requires adaptation and modification in order to give the people of the valley with the best attention and the best guarantee. The citizens of Irun, the sandribi and the Burgundy have long been waiting for this innovation. And that's where I'm going to get the discussion settled as fast as I can and... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... The citizens of Irun, the sandribi and the Burgundy have long been waiting for this innovation. And we want the discussion created there as fast as we can and we want it to end, because we think that the people of the country must have the best care of health in the best installments. Nevertheless, there have been some assertions in this dispute, which we do not agree: On the one hand, what Mr. Soto said last Friday to the chief of the department, I shall go to these questions. So you said the Medical Department didn't answer questions and demands, did you? The chief physician also said that all questions which have been made to this parliament have been given, as far as information has been concerned, has always been published. And we defend that. On the other hand, I should like to make it clear that there are certain decisions which are taken for technical reasons, and others which are answered by political reasons. And there are two political decisions that answer political reasons. On the one hand, that the surgical block of Bidasa must be modified, and that it is necessary to face it, as has been done with regard to sub-varience, −urgences have become modified and adapted, and now belongs to the surgical block to guarantee the safety of the patient while the works remain. These two premises have been the foundation. From this point on, the technical proposals of professionals, which are met with in daily circumstances, have been answered, and has always been given to the citizen, and to him the attention and security of the quality which is offered him, how or not, in the middle. He's been talking to the staff of the block, because he's still talking, and he's still talking on this subject, because we have a clear idea that the chief physician of the department has a very clear account of the opinions and allegations of people who work in it, because it's necessary to listen to professionals at the time of the best service. Zumarragako gaia berriro ere irten da. Soto jaunak ekarri du, berriro ere, esaten, that in Zumarraga how it was done; that in Zumarraga, it was made a transitory building. And that's not true. What was done in Zumárraga was to expand the hospital with a new building, and this expansion was used to make that transition, so it is not true that certain claims are made, is it not? And here too I would bring back the words of the Sailburu, when I answered you in the previous full of control, that each hospital has a reality and we have to face that reality. Eta ez dira Zumarragako Ospitaleko baldintza berdinak ematen; beraz, ezin da eranzun berdin eman baldintza berdin ematen ez den tokian. Guk uste dugu horrelako proyektuek tokian tokiko errialities aurre egin behar diotela eta hortik oinarritu behar sayla erabakiak. So we are not going to get into those claims of first and second-class citizens, as has been wanted many times, because we do not think that is so. It's a long time ago you've had a dugula behar. Esandakoak isanda, gure zuzenketaren inguruan hitz egingo dut. Gure zuzenketa elkarrizketaren terminoan doa; Rico jaunak ekarri du, dialogue, right? And I think we're all there. We think we need to talk about dialogue. We believe in dialogue, with the shared aim of continuing to offer quality assistance to citizens. And that's where we're gonna meet. I really regret that in a matter of vital importance for improving the health of the region, they come back with these speeches, with speeches that they pretend to confuse, and generate fears that are not true. It is a pity that we find ourselves in these terms before a work that, like this, they try to offer quality assistance to people, modernise services and respond to future needs. We believe that they will be good works, that they will give good results to the region. We also know, and we are aware of it, that they are complex works, and that is something that cannot be overlooked. But we do believe that some works of these dimensions generate certain discomforts that we do not like, but we must be clear that it is a time that will be carried out with these discomforts; that it will not be something that will be maintained in time. And during that time, then, that attention that will be given will have to take it to 18 kilometers to the oncologist. When the works are completed, the neighbors of this region will be again operated in their reference center, which is where we want to be: modernizing services so that the region has the best public assistance. Because with all the assertions he makes here, about the transfer, well, I think it's important to give him some important information, half of the people in Bidasoa, now, every year, he invades in another hospital and operates. And there has never been a dispute about this transfer, but now there has been a discussion of the transfer. And I think that's important to the desktop too. It seems to me, from this legislature, that we can't give confused messages and give even the right information, right? As we ask the department, we should do that ourselves, from political groups, right? Why, even today Mrs. Ubera said: You didn't think you'd bring the argument so quickly. Well, it was up to you to bring us this discussion. The time for the full corrections ended last week, and we've been arguing here for seven days, while you didn't take advantage of it to ask questions, to ask for an opening... first, the discussion. First, you put them in front of you and then they'll come back. It seems to me that such assertions should be made on some consistency, shouldn't it? And it hasn't been in that interval that you've done so many times in this parliament... It is true, Mrs. Ubera, that in this legislature there have often been questions first. You can take advantage of the control meeting, just as Mr. Soto made it, but no, this discussion has been brought here for a week. And we think it's good to have questions, information requests. We think it necessary, and we shall find ourselves there: In conversation, in info. We'll find you there. But don't make such an assertions, because it seems to me that we only confuse them. I think we must all be in modernization. We must all be here to assume that this adaptation is good. Even if we say it's necessary, we all have to join together. And this is where our proposition has gone, and our original correction, and the proposition which has followed you, has gone on the way of the conversation. So I'd leave it there to take my first word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Ubera, is your word. [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u96	Look, before we came in, we've been asking questions, and I didn't say speed, but what I said was that I didn't want to bring him away, so I had to bring him in. And we also asked the manager of the Osages to meet, so I'm waiting for an answer. For knowing. On the other hand, if the subject is important, he asks you to correct the management. That's all. It's up to you. To conclude from the whole correction which you have set before you, is to say that you are too much in favour of the conversation, and that what you have said is not one of the chief physician of health. But if so, what you can do today is protect, protect, or at least give way to correct the situation. What was missing was not to answer the questions that were brought to Parliament; what we had left of us. Another question is, that these answers are not the documents required to be sent, we are not sent by the documents we require. It will be because they have not been made, or have not answered the questions made. And of course not all hospitals are the same, but there are certain duties, standards, which must be fulfilled in all hospitals. And unfortunately, they don't fit here. And I don't want you to argue, but what we ask is an answer to the questions on the table to answer my concerns. To give an answer to the doubts, concerns, and the questions that the professionals are planning, and what we ask is to give the people a quality interest. And what we're asking is to correct all this management if it's really the priority of health. And what we ask is to perform the standards marked by the law, to perform the marked tactics of the Christian strategy, and, above all, what I have said before, and I repeat: to guarantee the health attention quality that patients are going to receive. In a word, we ask for transparency. Look, and I'll give you a few examples to see what's going on, and what an example of how it is to handle it. Look, in the report of the work, the informationman that we asked for, the Department sent us a report. And right there, in the report you sent, it says that the sterilization center is coming out of the surgical block. But the sterilization service has been removed from the surgical block for years. Why is this happening? Because that document is out of date, because it has not been updated, because it hasn't been revoked. And that way hospitals have changed a lot, the standards have changed and have not been adapted. And even in that sense, even the waking space that is planned will not fill up the standard of principles and the Ministrys that are established. One more example. It did not occur to him in the Bidas for an emergency or to make little surgery. Outside this work, outside, without anyone knowing it, a worker appeared from one day to the next, saying that he must begin the next day, and that this floor was to be emptied. Besides, he had not asked for permission to work there at the City of Sandarib, which happened on the 7th of February. Then the demands were wrong, and again the demand was made on the 9th, and the permit was given at the 10th. tempo rédor. We all know about waking space − this is a standard that has the Ministry, because it's not the standard for you to watch the wake-space nurse, all patients must be visible, all of them must be controlled. In between, the offices have been introduced, and from this control all the spaces will not be controlled, and this will not complete the standards and principles, and you want to do this work, because you've put the offices in between. Curigía maybulatoria is always separated from all hospitals, all of them, surgery is separated from block-blocks, even in Bidas, everywhere. They'll put it in the middle of the road. The great Kirophanos will be placed in the middle, and what will happen nowhere will happen in the Bindas. It's not even specified how the guards are going to be executed, how the local guards are going to be made. When there's an emergency, or when something happens in the Bidasoa planet, it takes care of emergency. How the workers will be doubled in Bidas and Onkological. So many questions, many questions, in regard to this work, are not made up of the necessary reports. That's all we're asking for. The rule, the standards, and above all, to guarantee the health quality of the people. That's what we're asking for. And seeing this work has been wandering around for ten years and you see it's an old-fashioned document, because that's the information we've made. Before we came here, we asked the Osaénage for a meeting, we questioned her, asked her, asked her a written question...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u97	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u98	...we've made request for information. Seeing how things are, what is the trouble of doing things well, of doing what is to be done, of doing what is to be done and done. It's a minor. It's a minimum. And that's what we're asking for. And I'll tell you the last thing, and I'm done with this. In 2016, I remember, this Parliament, that the Bidasoa Hospital, which we proposed, was a hospital beyond the frontier. We had a visit from Josun Gorospe, Carmelo Barrio, and others to see the Cerdany Hospital. We agreed with EAJ to take a test for a hospital beyond the border. The legislation was changed, the report was ordered, and the report hasn't been reported yet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u99	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u100	That's our goal. But we're going to have to share all this, what do we want to have the Intentioned Sanitarian Organization of the Bidasa? What service does he have to serve? And after that, let's do things right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Podemos, Mr. Soto, your word is yours. [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari. Well, first of all, give a greeting to the guests and guests, that some of them were my corporate partners, and before that I've passed. And, well, by answering, first of all, Mr Rico, to say that, indeed, on the substantive issue - and it is the need to improve, update, even expand the surgical service, even the facilities as a whole in the Bidasoa region - we agree. We also agree on how. That is, with more information, sharing such information and being able to participate in the relevant frameworks, decisions and decision-makers. The problem here is the tail. Because, at this rate, that information will come when through the facts everything has been done; redundancy is worth it. Because if the next month starts already the execution of the work and the materialization of it, or you will tell me when we get that information and those shared channels generated. Therefore, from there came the request to stop the work in order to be able, precisely, to do what you have proposed in your speech, and it is to inform and share information. Because I'm convinced we'd agree on that. Then, with regard to what has been raised by the spokesman for the EAJ-PNV parliamentary group, let us see, first of all, to say that it is not that the requests made by the parliamentary groups are not being answered or that the way in which you should have been asked would like it to be another and not this, but that the requests are also being addressed to the Basque Government by different social institutions and groups. And it's been months without an answer. Today, a new declaration of an institutional nature comes out by the Irún City Council joining the call for the demonstration of this same Saturday asking for information on this issue. Information, the functional plan, that is, everything that is being claimed here and that is not given and that is not provided. Therefore, it is not only a matter of not being aware of the parliamentary groups represented here, but even the institutions concerned are not being answered. We do believe that with regard to the lack of information and how the implementation of the project and the bidding process is being addressed, the Bidasoa District is being treated in a different way. Yes, because we don't understand, and I'm telling you, why the department in this sense isn't responding to the counselor. There was a letter of reply, in this case to the absolutely superficial Irun City Council, in which no answer was given to the questions that were being asked, questions that we have raised here, and after two months a new letter was sent back to the Council and there is still no reply to that letter. And, therefore, we do believe that there is a deal in this sense that does not correspond to how things should be done between institutions. Then, about fear; that we are trying to generate fear and that this is an interesting debate on our part. No, that debate is on the street, in the Comarca del Bidasoa, and we haven't made it ourselves. That is to say, if this debate has been generated on the street and your concerns about how this project is going to be developed and how those 18 months will be left unprotected with regard to the surgical service - which ceases to be provided in the Hospital del Bidasoa - is due to the lack of information. Because information is the best tool to remove fear. Well, bring the information. Tell us exactly how the transfers are going to be resolved, how when there is an emergency surgery in the Comarca del Bidasoa how to guarantee quality by transferring these people to the oncologist; how the oncologist is going to adapt in terms of lending the same... will provide the service under the same conditions as they do today at the Hospital del Bidasoa. If you provide that information - which is basically the only thing to do - and that information is adequate, and you also provide that functional plan or memorandum that is being made today, that I don't know what will come into it about answering these questions, surely that fear that you say is being built will disappear. What happens in the end is, well, like the oxen. It goes with the anti-gauges, and as right now there is a movement and a certain broth of cultivation against what is the project being developed by the Department, the Basque Government instead of going out to the lecture, giving answer – apparently, being right –, instead of doing so, what they do is deny, does not answer, does not answer, does not answer the institutions. And here neither answer the questions that are being asked. For we believe that there are other ways of doing it, and we believe that those other ways of doing it are not so complicated to complete themselves in this particular case either. And therefore, we are going to continue to hold on to what today much of the citizenry, of the professionals, that you have said you have to listen to them, because listen to them, because the professionals are the ones who have formed an ad hoc platform for this same process. And I suppose not everyone will have EH Bildu or Elkarrekin Podemos or the People's Party's card; surely it is very diverse people who are part of the professional services of the Hospital del Bidasoa. And so, if that's the case, listen to the professionals at the Bidasoa Hospital as well. Don't tell us to do it like we don't. And from there, also respond to the institutions that are asking them to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u103	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u104	President, chief physician. I do not think there is such a response to this project, to this work of remodeling, of enlargement, well, according to the government of modernization of the surgical block of this hospital in this important area. I believe that it would be desirable to resolve those issues that are not resolved today - which are quite enough - and to appeal to dialogue by the groups supporting the Government. But I wanted to point out here today that what does not seem to have happened is precisely that dialogue. And that demanding dialogue right now is fine, better late than never, but that, obviously, it's late... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... It seems that what did not happen is precisely that dialogue. And that demanding dialogue at this time is fine, better late than never, but that, obviously, is late. The other day, too, with regard to a response from the Health Adviser, it was pointed out that consideration was being given to how to address the works and services provided in the surgery in Bidasoa, and that the professionals and people affected would be heard. This study should also have arrived earlier because, as has been recalled here - I believe that all the spokespersons - the bidding works are in progress. It seems, therefore, that it would have been convenient and necessary to study how these works were to be carried out earlier, as well as to listen to the professionals and affected. The problem is that listening and dialogue now is a little late, at a time when we are already in an open bidding process. I believe that what lies at the bottom of this issue is the issue of the paralysis of these works. I believe that this is what some groups in this House are demanding today, which we, as I said earlier, will support. But I do not just think that we should point out at this moment the position of some groups in this House, that we are going to call for a halt to these works at this time. I do make it clear, and from the group I represent, we want to make it clear that we see the need, of course, for these works, but that they are done well, with the precise guarantees, with the transparency - also - appropriate. And I was saying that I think it's not only important what we have said here, but also the response of the Irun City Council itself, isn't it?, and how the Basque Nationalist Party has been left alone. The Socialist Party itself also supports, together with other affected municipalities, the demand for more information, as Mr Rico has said. But not only that, but also the paralysis of this project right now, and the opening of a forum for dialogue. In this sense, a manifesto, in a statement, has been jointly called for a demonstration that will take place on 23 February. I believe that obviously the Basque Government and the Department of Health have to rectify, because it is clear that, as I said before, things have not been done right. Nor do I think it is a balamí - and I will finish my speech here - that today, in a full of four points, two issues have been discussed which have to do with the health of the Basque citizens, of two very different areas, one in Bizkaia and one in Gipuzkoa; we will soon also do so with regard to an initiative by my group on the closure of the Santiago emergency. And we believe that this is so because, clearly, health concerns Basque citizens. It is a subject that is on the street, that there is a feeling of deterioration - and I take it to tell the Lehendakari, who is now present here - of the quality of healthcare in Basque, and that, obviously, the myth of the good management of the Basque Nationalist Party has fallen. I believe that over the course of these months we have not lived up to the circumstances, and, with all due respect, I say this to the Basque Government, but obviously I think we must reflect, because we are not in vain, too, the autonomous community that we spend the most on health: more than EUR 1,900 per inhabitant. And I think that this expenditure, which is where we make an effort all Basque citizens with our taxes, has to revert to concrete improvements in our health system, and not to a general sense that our health system, which has always been at the forefront and has always been an example for all the autonomous communities, is deteriorating. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u105	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u106	Thank you, President. Well, I think that to reach an agreement there's a basic premise that is to want to reach an agreement. And sometimes we see that coinciding in many things, one cannot reach agreements, and, in others, that coinciding in a few things, one reaches agreements; well, that will have to be explained by each one. We're always on the deal. We are always in agreement; let them give explanations who are not. Of course, I will answer some of the questions that have been raised here, because I cannot admit that it is said here that our amendment does not say anything. Our amendment, and our intervention, says things. I repeat, because they have not understood it either, or they do not want to understand it because it spoils their speech and their refusal to an agreement. First: something has failed; I have said it textually. Secondly, we need to have discussions with the affected workers in order to dispel these doubts. And third: dialogue with the institutions involved, i.e. with the municipalities. Can you tell me what part of those three haven't understood or don't want to understand in order not to reach an agreement? Because that is said in the intervention and in the initiative, in the intervention and in the amendment. Because, of course, they also tell us: "No, it is that this amendment that you have tabled does not say anything." Mr. Soto, you said it literally. Man, then, to say nothing, we are shot at the first point in his compromise amendment. And you know why they shoot us? Because in our amendment we say that this hospital has to secure its functions for the future and increase the portfolio of services, and you did not say so. And we say it: what a bigger stake in the future of that hospital than that one. It does not say anything; we have been shot at by the amendment. But still, they don't want to agree with us. Great. Where's the PES? Well, I tell you very clearly: in the City Hall of Irún, with its mayor at the head, José Antonio Santano, defending the interests of the citizens of Irún. And in this Parliament, seeking solutions, which is what we are all paid for, not to come here to give rallies. Of course, because I have to tell you: if anyone here has come to do a rally... I can understand it, a municipal rally, okay, I can understand it... But, man, then what I can't understand, if that was the position, is that you let yourself be removed from your amendment, the transactional amendment, the claim of the third outpatient clinic... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ...I can understand... But, man, then I can understand it, if that was the position, is that he has let himself be removed from his amendment, the transactional amendment, the claim of the third outpatient clinic for Irun; do not worry that already José Antonio Santano will put it on the table, at that dialogue table that will be established. Of course, here we can all come and play whatever role we want. Here we can all come to play the role we want, but we are in the search for solutions. And we'd appreciate it if you didn't get mad. That, at least, if you don't want to remember, don't get mad. Read our initiative; I told you. First: recognition of what the hospital of Bidasoa involves for the region. Second: recognition that it is necessary to update, in order to be able to add greater health benefits to the hospital's portfolio of services. Third, you say, we share it: the need to communicate with the workers in order to dispel these doubts. And fourth: dialogue with the institutions, to move the best solutions that guarantee the best quality of care. And now explain to the citizens of Irún, to the people of Hondarribia why they are going to vote against our amendment. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u107	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u108	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I fully share with Mr. Rico that we have not been wanted to understand; I keep that. I think we have clearly spoken that what we want is dialogue. I think we have tried to reach an agreement because we believe it is important and, in general terms, I think we can agree on several premises, but we did not want to reach an agreement. Guk argi dankagu elkarrizketaren alde gaudela, bide horretan topatuko gaitezkeela, eta erdibideko proposeen bat egin genuine bide horretan. Here, what has become clear to me is that Mr Soto either did not understand me or did not want to understand me when I have repeated one and a thousand times that we are looking for that dialogue, listening and looking for meeting points. But no, it came with another speech that interested him: whether I like it or not how to ask for information or not. I am in favour of asking for information in ways that are deemed appropriate. I have never qualified at any time what is the proper way to ask for information. What I have said is that in this Parliament all the requests for information that have been made have been answered. And that's where I spoke; I didn't say I didn't like it done any other way. I believe, and in the compromise proposal we were making, we were talking about that interlocution. We believe that it is important, yes, with the professionals, which is what is being done and what needs to continue to be done - we have very clearly - and also with the institutions, of course we need to dialogue and we need to seek that agreement in order to reach the project that interests us. Erdibideko proposes mena egin disuegunean, bigarren puntuan hitz egiten genuen aurreko puntuan Durangaldeako hospitalian egiten zen ereferentzia berdina egiten genuen. Eta, we said that we had to dialogue with the institutions of the region of Bidasoa to know their own contributions, and those that the social entities and agents of the region have transferred to them; in the same terms - exactly the same - as at the point of Durangaldea, but in this case we did not want to reach an agreement. I think that has become quite clear: in one we are interested in some terms, in another we are interested in others. Why? Because in some things we're interested in being front and in others we're not. And that's what's been shown here. For, if I had brought the subject of the Duran question, I would have wanted to refer to Mrs. Ubera as well. Durangra doesn't need a hospital twenty-one. I don't know how many miles it is, because other hospitals are more than 20 miles up, in the hospital of en Campbium, Bidasoa, 18 miles away, some operations that have to be sent for an 18 months, when they have to be sent for a while, there's an enormous problem. In our remarks, or in your assertions of this kind, there are contradictions in yours, and I believe that there are still other interests, and that it follows that we seek a discussion and a collision. We'll go on. We think it's important to have information, to have communication. We'll go on the way to the interview and keep our correction. We have reviewed your first point, but it seems to us that our whole correction is best able to combine this method of conversation with the institutions, and that is why we will remain there. But I think that what unites us is a great deal, and that's where we should hit all the groups, and also the oppositions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. End of discussion, we'll vote for the EH Collect and together the middle-direction that Podemos Edemos-Nozer has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 33; contrarys, 40; abstainments, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u110	So it's not accepted. We'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 62; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u111	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists-Euz patriots. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 39; the opponents are 33; abstations, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-17.u112	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two-thirty-two.
