ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you that the Member of the River Iritredi has adopted the vote for his fatherhood. And that the first point in the subject will be discussed in the second place, and the second in the first place. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Ciudadans, Laura Garrido Knörre Euscular, the II of the social services. about the strategic plan. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Mrs Garrido, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u1	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. In the pliant control we directed an interpelation of social political service to the social service II. about the strategic plan. And then we reported that this plan is late. And since we're in front of an important plan, it's good to encourage this plan from the Basque Mitch as soon as possible. Finally, we've signed a deal with the Jestle Party and the Social Party, and they're willing to be here before the end of the year. At the last full monitoring session, we called on the Councillor for Equality, Policy, Social, Justice and Social Policy to draw up and approve the second strategic plan for social services. In my intervention I pointed out that this plan is an absolutely essential plan to complete the deployment of services and services recognized in the Law on Social Services itself, in all the decrees that have developed it, the Decree on Benefits and Services, the map also approved in 2015. The Councilwoman herself acknowledged the delay in drawing up the plan and noted the intention to adopt it during the second half of this year. It is true that we in our text had spent three months, that in three months' time the plan was approved, drawn up and approved, with the aim, of course, of negotiating, because, seeing the backlog of that plan, it is difficult to predict, even though it has often pointed out to us that we would soon have this plan, well, to see whether that commitment and whether what the councilwoman pointed out was going to be fulfilled or not. Well, in that regard, we have considered it opportune to take the same words from the Counsellor in her reply, and to approve and forward this plan before the end of the second half. It should be said that this plan is considerably delayed, as the I Strategic Social Services Plan ended in 2019. Irrean zegoen hiru urteetako. Eta dago II clays. Plana atzerapen nabarmena daramala. The evaluation of the I plan revealed multiple shortcomings in relation to the forecasts already contained in the first plan. In this regard, the need to review the currently competent home support system was discussed... that the competent institution is the municipalities, before in the deputies; also the need to review the accommodation services of elderly people, spoke expressly here of reviewing the criteria; of reviewing the Respiro Service, which had developed below the forecasts; the need to reinforce everything that has to do with social and health care and the concrete need to advance and update the social and health agreements - an issue that this group has brought on numerous occasions to this plenary. The assessment also envisaged the need to move forward on issues related to disability, situations of greater dependence and mental illness, such as the adaptation of residential centres to deal with extraordinary situations such as the one we have just been through, the pandemic situation, which, by the way, has exposed some of the structural problems that have been dragging our residences along for some time and, as I say, have become manifest with all their virulence over the two years of the pandemic. I too wish to highlight here the lack of legislative development of the Social Services Act. And that also the balance sheet with the Employment, Social Services and Equality Advisor... Social Services... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... and that also the balance sheet with the Counsellor of Employment, Social Services, Justice and Equality has only been approved by the Resident Centres Decree, which, moreover, is a decree which, on several occasions, in this Parliament, we have called for its revision with specific mandates in this House. Important decrees of relevant content remain. In her reply, the Councilwoman herself acknowledged that there was room for improvement and that longer-term planning should be carried out with fewer, more concrete targets, but with key axes and simplification of that plan, I suppose that in order to respond effectively to the needs we have in the field of social services. As I say, through this agreement, the Basque Government - and although the adviser herself also pointed out - has an obligation to bring this plan before the end of the year, before the end of the second half. And let us hope that, as we are long overdue in the preparation and approval of the II strategic plan for social services - I say that the first one ended in 2019 - as the Government is getting to work, we know that it is in this, but that it fulfils the commitment that this parliamentary mandate demands today. Nothing more, thank you for the deal. I hope that the other groups will also join the same, regardless of the amendments tabled, because the request was also very concrete. I believe that the objective, beyond the other issues that have been included in any of the amendments tabled, was for this plan to be drawn up and approved. And, as I said, we believe that it is an essential tool to continue to deploy the Basque system of social services, at the same time, ensuring its sustainability and addressing the challenges we face as a society. And one of them, clearly, is the ageing of the population, which translates into a greater need for care and greater attention to dependent people, especially the large dependent ones. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u2	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u3	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. As I am the first to speak, and I am also the one with the most extensive amendment, I would like to say that I am very pleased that you have reached this agreement, that you have a deadline to bring the social services plan. But I am not going to stop claiming how you understand from my parliamentary group what the strategic plan for social services should be, which is a fundamental part of seeing where the social policies of the next decade will go and where all social protection policies will go, bearing in mind that we are talking about the fourth pillar of the welfare state, the least deployed and the least historically consolidated, which is thinking of responding to the vulnerability that many people suffer from different causes. I told them, for us, this plan is the public policy tool that places at the centre and should and should place and respond to the challenges we face as a society in terms of social cohesion, combating poverty, protecting children, promoting diversity and the elderly and combating social exclusion. We do not speak of a certain period of action, but of a way of acting and acting. We believe that the next strategic plan of social services is essential in order to see which direction public policies in the area of the future decade will be directed. After the pandemic, we have come across a devastating picture, not only in residences where there has not been an increase in ratios in staffing nor resource endowment nor any publication, but a lack of support, overflow and widespread fatigue among social workers, educators, professionals from all over the system. It has already been the subject of debate in this very Chamber, and yet again and again the solution adopted is to follow a little how we are and to see it come, but to see it come for those who suffer from social exclusion or depend on social services to enjoy a decent quality of life is a very expensive price. Therefore, for us, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the next social services plan is not a process to meet a deadline, nor are we talking about a document that has legitimacy or will be useful for the mere fact of being drafted. It seems that, according to the initiative, it seemed to be in line with the original initiative and the amendment of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, where it seems that everything is reduced, on the one hand, to a written note and to its presentation in Parliament, and, on the other hand, to continue without putting forward a clear road map or the political objectives that should frame the design of the plan. By this we mean that we are not worth a plan designed in any way, a plan disconnected from reality, and even less disconnected from the forms of legislation which influence it. He looks like he's not taking it seriously. That's why we've introduced a correction that seems to us essential to begin the work of the new strategic plan. And we were talking, on the one hand, about the shared participation and design of all the actors involved, about what participation and design should be like. We were also speaking on the basis of the conclusions and recommendations of the evaluation of the previous plan itself. Our amendment reflects the recommendations made by the Basque Government, and this should be supported: incorporating a gender perspective, children, and cross-cutting. And why do we emphasize this? Because we see that it still does not pay full attention to the needs of all people; those who do not fit within the profiles for which resources and services are designed remain many of them out and without attention to any of the systems that should respond to them. We also put forward in another of our proposals the necessary inter-departmental or inter-system coordination or... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... systems that should give you an answer. We also put forward in another of our proposals the necessary inter-departmental or inter-system coordination, or as they wish to call it, because it fails dramatically; some cases we have commented on here in committees or asked questions to the Government. To this day, there is no figure from the Administration to assume that role. No one, who, with sufficient authority, ensures that a person who needs support in terms of housing, inclusion or the social health network... then, well, that he is left unanswered, and that there is someone who guarantees that this answer is given. Well, it's a berriro esan dogu Honetian parliament, you run politicak ezin dira kuantititaboki neurtu. Social policies cannot be measured by weight, nor should people adapt to them, but on the contrary. If we measure them to the weight, that is, only quantitatively, we will continue to maintain a duality where political discourses speak of investment, of the pyramid of attention, of promoting integral care and so on, and, de facto, what we continue to promote is the same formula that we already see applied in health and education. Collapse the public system, take it to the limit, without investing, so that it seems to work badly, and then, reach outsourcing as if it were a salvation, and people, relieved, will believe that that is the solution: privatize. The solution is that tax money is invested in the public, in strengthening social services from the public, and from the hands of the third sector. But we know that it's the only solution to investing services in public improvement. Because, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, "EstModio in his evaluation, according to private public coworkers, that doesn't guarantee the necessary care we need in the course of our lives, or the conditions of the workers' work. We also proposed in our amendment to improve the governance of the whole system by promoting the redesign of the social services observatory, and this is literal, as is the case in the evaluation. The implementation of the information system of the Basque social services service, and innovation and research - which we have also spoken about in a previous plenary - in the field of social services from a rights perspective. All of them are - all of them - recommendations of the Government; here we do not innovate with our amendment. Finally, we also propose that the participation of the political groups in this House, which are also the expression of popular sovereignty in the elaboration and design of this plan, should take place. As stated in Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, it is therefore possible to debate in full and present resolutions. So, well, for our part, Mrs Garrido, we did not think it was a matter of time to present the plan to Parliament, welcome in three months' time, but what we really care about is not that it is a mere bureaucratic procedure, but rather a plan that does not start from these pillars that we have mentioned, so it cannot have the necessary social legitimacy for those who are going to be its protagonists. And besides, it will be ineffective if we don't do an exercise in learning from the assessed to implement a model that hasn't deployed all the potential and scope and should. And, sir, far away, I must confess that you have intended to make an arrangement, and I am grateful to you, but again we prove that our types of government are different. Even when our Methodology, our plans, and our strategy. As a matter of fact, their teams, and for example, all of them understand in a different way, and we in a different way. And, well, and because we can't let paper support everything, let alone on this subject. We do not believe that it is only the Government that should continue to do and undo its will, and we, the opposition, be invited stone to dismantle the social welfare system and to open up the door to privatization more and more. So, well, I said it. I am glad that you have reached an agreement on the deadline for bringing the plan, but the methodology and steps taken for the elaboration, the mime with which the previous plan was made, the previous plan, and the participatory way in which it has been, I do not think it is the one that is being collected at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u5	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the II strategic plan for social services. The Basque system of social services is a universal system of public responsibility, which has a catalogue of services and equipment of public and private ownership, with prevalence of the social initiative, which is articulated from the three levels of the Basque public administrations, having citizens guaranteeing their access to it as a subjective right, with a catalogue of comprehensive services and economic benefits aimed at achieving social integration. The Basque system of social services is a key instrument for addressing challenges such as demographic challenge, care, equality and social cohesion. A system that forms part of the Act of 5 December 2008 on Social Services, based on a community model that involves promoting comprehensive, decentralized, preventive, continuous, participatory and quality personalized care, equipped with universal standards, common instruments that introduce equity in the allocation of resources. The Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Beatriz Artolazabal, acknowledged in the plenary on 3 June that the II strategic plan for social services should have been completed for a long time, because the I plan's validity ended in 2019. But we already have the evaluation of the II Strategic Plan for Social Services, which is essential for the elaboration of the II Plan. And this plan is important, and it's going to be addressed after having suffered a VOCID-19 pandemic, from the reception of families... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... this plan is important, and will be addressed after having suffered a pandemic of COVID-19, from the reception of Ukrainian families recently as extraordinary programs, and after the challenge suffered by our society as a result of the pandemic, which has allowed to advance and strengthen the socio-sanitary coordination, interdepartmental and inter-institutional coordination, and which has highlighted the need to draw conclusions from the experience lived to improve the responsiveness of the residential centers of older people and the extraordinary situations of pandemic. The pandemic has also led to new situations of vulnerability related to living conditions that have not affected the entire population equally. And the councilwoman has made a commitment to have this second strategic plan in the second half of this year, and in addition, the Basque Strategy for a People's Challenge 2030 is already completed. Both this strategy and the second plan require a strategic horizon and long-term planning to address the social and demographic transition, constituting one of the main tools of the Basque system of social services, having both as horizon 2030. Our social services system is one of the pillars of our welfare state, with the other three pillars: health, education and the income guarantee system. But with the evaluation and development of the second plan, what we have to achieve is to strengthen and transform the social services system, advancing in its consolidation and reinforcement towards the future and its sustainability. And these demographic projections, benefits and services must be taken into account. And for that we have the recommendations contained in the evaluation of the first Strategic Plan for Social Services, and the experience experienced during the pandemic. In addition, innovative projects are being launched to which Councilwoman Artolazabal referred at the June 3rd plenary session, and also referred to the implementation of the design of the Basque system of information on social services, which will facilitate the planning and evaluation processes of the Basque system of social services. It has been delayed, yes, but it is important to take that assessment into account after suffering the effects of the pandemic experienced, and to move forward with the strategy to follow in the Basque social services system in a prospecting towards 2030. Now we have to move forward, but taking firm and stable steps with a long-term look. And in addition, all strategies are moving forward coordinated, interrelated to achieve maximum effectiveness in the goal to be achieved. We have just discussed the demographic challenge in the monograph of 18 May last, and we focus on the need for the centrality of population challenge policies in the short, medium and long term, assuming that commitment and agreeing on numerous proposals that will be integrated into the Basque Strategy of the 2030 demographic challenge, with which the second Strategic Plan for Social Services must necessarily be aligned. I think it is precisely this coordination that is of great importance. And all this is going on this year, and this second plan will be completed in the second half of 2022. That is why we have agreed on a compromise amendment with the People's Group, where this commitment is made to have the second Strategic Social Services Plan in the second half of 2022. My group believes that the amendment to the whole proposed by the Elkarrekin Group does not make much sense, because all the points it contains in its amendment to the whole are either being made or are already commitments made, I will see them. It speaks of the need for such effective real participation in its elaboration, carried out by the different social actors or entities of the third sector and the different administrations and so on, but it is that all the plans are carried out in this way, and it does not have the slightest doubt that this plan is going to do exactly the same. Secondly, it urges that the recommendations contained in the evaluation of the first Strategic Plan for Social Services be taken into account. Man, that's what evaluation is for. You're not going to do the second plan without taking that assessment into account. And then, you're... and you're urged to draw up the second plan in cooperation with the rest of the administrations. For it cannot be otherwise either, because the system is articulated, as I said, from the three levels of Basque public administrations, and that the perspective of gender and sexual diversity be included. But this amendment does not need to be adopted either, because that is a commitment, and this perspective of gender and sexual diversity is included in all public policies, and has also been integrated into the Basque Strategy for a Demographic Challenge. And of course, it is intended to achieve this improvement in the governance of the system. And the councilwoman herself pointed out that this information system of the Basque system of social services and the coordination between systems that you request in your amendment were being put in place as well. Finally, the amendment by Podemos points out that, once the second plan has been completed, it is referred to this Parliament. All plans when they are completed are brought to Parliament. It is not necessary to accept this amendment in order for that to be done. It is that that is always done, it is the procedure that is always carried out. All they do is ask with the reference to article 199 to refer to 97 and 96, although it is not expressly placed, what they are asking in the background is for a monograph to be made on this subject. Well, I don't think it was necessary to have to sign that amendment, it's that everything is being done or going to be done, and it doesn't bring anything... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... having to sign that amendment; it is that everything is being done or going to be done, and it does not bring anything new. The engagement is there. We are on the right track and this year we will have both the Basque Strategy for a People's Challenge 2030 and the II Strategic Plan for Social Services to further advance the consolidation of the Basque system of social services. During these years a great deal of effort has been made in the area of social services. We can't deny that. And it must continue to be carried out and increased in order to respond to the social and demographic changes that are taking place, such as the ageing of the population and the impact of the different crises on social needs, mainly in the area of exclusion. And on that path we'll be there. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u6	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u7	Chief of Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Chief, Congressman, good day to all of you. In many places where I speak lately, I repeat an idea, and it is that we are so many crossroads in this country and this world, that we live, or have many changes which we live or live in. It is certain that this begets uncertainty, but I think we ought to see it as opportunity and opportunity, and as well as as as the field of social services. It seems therefore to me that our work ought to be to seek and achieve these possibilities from politics and political cares. And that's why we see the inevitable need for strategic planning. And as to social services, we are concerned with the need of a strategic plan of social services in this matter. Taking into account both the social and demographic scenarios in which we live, this requires – using Mrs. Artolazabal's own words – a strategic horizon and planning beyond a legislature. An idea that I have been moving from this rostrum whenever we have talked, above all, about the demographic challenge that we have. A planning superior to a legislature and a vision for a new generation of Basques and Basques, in addition to facing the impact of the successive crises that we are experiencing and that leads us to face new needs and demands in social services, basically the areas of dependency and exclusion. All this takes a look at us 2030 years, because there are often some years of politics that are significant, and what is now called 2030, 2030, is set up as a horizon for the growth of so many transitions. And we should take advantage of our social services to develop these transitions into politics, especially by looking at the two models. On the one hand, the watch pattern, and on the other, the social model. And for this reason the chief physician informed us that there is a project which is called transforming the euscal system of social services, and that it is 2030 a year ago, as the horizon. We believe that this should lead to three main ends. On the one hand attention is to subvert the pyramid; on the other hand, to raise a new balance for the institutional and family watch; and thirdly, to correct the attention of dependence, neglect, and incomprehensibility of the network. Such a long path and an easy way, but it is always necessary to begin the long journey by first steps, and based on what we have. And it is true that we have a system of euscals, universal and public responsibility, and which is one of the axiss of the state of well-being, with an income of education, health, and money. And in Mrs. González's speech, it seemed to me that he had mentioned that it was not the most developed or not the most important thing. I wouldn't dare say that. A problem which has retained the social influence of the palace, with its problems, of course, which have been more than once confessed, but which has preserved and established the quality of the system of our social services. We must, therefore, remark on the variations which will make the system possible to maintain, both from social and social stability, and from economic stability. It is because we've heard of many of our social services recently that we've seen a number of stitches, and I've said once more from this tribal who hasn't, what kind of social services have we seen? I would say, from the beginning, that the system of our social services has not only seen inclinations, but that many have seen plums. But probably more than one of the oppositions, but still because it is centered on the −, however, we think that on the way to mention that the system must be strengthened and modified in its four councils: submission, neglect, lack of protection and inability. And this leads us inevitably to enter into the demographic projection of a next project, to work on the situation we live in, and on the packages of preparations and services. Better and more compromise the planning... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... involuntarily, to work on the state we live in, and on the parcels of preparations and services. It's a better and more compromised planning to get one and, of course, insert the long term. To insert a long term, to expand the common standard of attention, to support the social and economic permanence of social attention, by adjusting the long and rhythmic period, and adjusting the diagnostics and strategic directions, always by reflecting on the Euscal Council and the institutions of the civil conversation. That's why we thought it interesting that his day's initiative was made by the Basque Populous Group. On one side, the appeal. And so the motion we've got today. It's just too late to see you. Yes, the delay exists and is confessed. The first day he said it wasn't understood, but I don't think it's the most difficult thing to understand, considering that his strength ended in 2019 and we know what we've been through since 2020: a state of reserves at the hands of a pandemy for social services. The unjust war of − Ukranine, which we now live under, and also with which the election is supposed to be − and also our institutional organization. I mean, we have a complex organization. He who takes more time than he wants to make decisions, but also when he has made decisions, and when he gets on the road he makes him strong. This strategic plan of social services was referred to, if I am not in the government program − Invalider. And I believe that the diagnosis is shared by all of us, both by the government and by the various groups of this House. It is necessary to anticipate this, and to hasten it. That's why we agreed with what the Poptular Party said: let him do it to the government and end it, and let him approve of it. But the problem is in time, we saw it in time. It seemed to us that three months' period were not realistic today, the 23rd of June. And even more, when the chief physician was engaged to introduce him at the second semester. That's why we filed the announcement correction. I'd like to make a comment... I'd like to be... Together to the Correction of Podemus. Mrs Sánchez mentioned some things too. Well, so that we can't stop this whole thing only by the time, because we'd like to get in a lot of things we had, but we didn't see too much of it. He said that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to undertake the elaboration of the plan. Well, we agree on that, but I was talking about the fact that in addition to the Basque Council, working groups should be set up. Working groups which, in principle, seem to us that participation is guided, well-led and with sufficient and important representation of the third sector in the way it is guided. Secondly, he was talking about incorporating the recommendations of the evaluation of the first plan. Man, obviously, but what is the purpose of the evaluation? What the evaluation is for, but it is for learning and for incorporating the recommendations and lessons we can draw from that evaluation. There was talk of adapting services and services to current actual demands. I have spoken of the need to do so - in our view - this strategic plan should address not only current real demands, but from current real demands to face the future. And for that, perhaps the framework for services and services at the hand of the portfolio decree we see it more appropriate. There was talk of including adequate mechanisms and resources. Yeah. What happens is that before we have talked about the internal institutional complexity that we have and obviously here there is an internal competition split like there is and hand in hand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u8	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u9	Bai. With the help of the other institutions that contribute to this strategic plan, man, of course... Not only do we trust, we are sure that once measures are put in place, all institutions will do everything necessary to establish or include adequate mechanisms and resources.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u11	And since I don't have any more time, I'm going to go on with three more points in the second round. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The one who hasn't ruled, Mistto-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The social protection system should promote the integration of the population throughout its life cycle, trying to maintain as much autonomy as possible. To this end, it is necessary to establish a package of benefits that offers the necessary coverage as a formula that guarantees the autonomy and social integration of citizens. We are talking about services and services related to guidance, mediation or home care, which are key tools for addressing challenges such as ageing, care or social cohesion. We need a model to ensure that the next generations have a universal system of social services, based on public-private collaboration with a vocation and preventive capacity to meet the challenges we face as a community in the coming years. But in turn, we have to bear in mind that social protection means spending on progressive promotion. Its sustainability is perhaps one of the main challenges. Citizens are increasingly demanding services from us... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... expenditure on progressive promotion. Its sustainability is perhaps one of the main challenges. Citizens are increasingly calling for higher quality public services. They demand a network to provide them with the necessary coverage, to enable them to meet their social needs with full guarantees and under increasingly optimal conditions. Therefore, the institutions must live up to the demands of the citizenry. The I Strategic Social Services Plan came to an end at the end of 2019. Today the second should be unfolding and developing, and unfortunately, despite the delay, it has not yet been approved. The excuses offered by the Government, in the words of her adviser, had been insufficient and did not justify the delay. The pandemic has served as a subterfuge to hide weaknesses and shortcomings in the management of many institutions. But the coronavirus cannot be the public wildcard that serves to justify delays due to the lack of planning and management efficiency. And it shouldn't be because the pandemic started in early 2020 and the first plan expired in 2019. Therefore, with proper planning, the Second Social Services Plan should have been at least very advanced at the time of the expiry of the first and prior to the start of the pandemic. But even more pilgrim is the justification offered by the adviser on the war in Ukraine. As we all know, war begins at the beginning of this exercise, that is, three years after the completion of the first plan. The justifications offered by the adviser are based on excuses that seek to hide the lack of planning and anticipation by the Basque Government. From Vox we will support the transactional that the Popular-Citizens group has signed with the groups that support the Government because it is urgent to approve the II strategic plan of social services, since it is at stake to improve the coverage to groups as sensitive as people with disabilities, in a situation of social exclusion or our elderly. It is necessary to set priorities and set objectives that will contribute to improving the residential model, promoting stay in the home; promoting preventive services and programmes, mainly for situations of dependency; improving early care or optimizing the Respiro programs of support to caregivers. All this with the clear objective of improving and addressing the situations of protectionlessness, disability, dependence and exclusion that many Basques suffer today. We must move forward and deepen a more cohesive and sustainable system. But we must not neglect that progress in social policies must be accompanied by essential economic progress, otherwise the sustainability of social benefits will be at risk. And this is, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the main challenge ahead. The paper endures everything and we can approve all kinds of fans and regulations that collect all kinds of rights and benefits. But the key is that rights and benefits generate expectations that we must meet, and all that has to be paid for. The data are not exactly hopeful. GDP grew in the Basque Country from 2000 to 2019 an annual average of 3.47%. In comparison, public expenditure has grown by an average of 3.77%, and in particular expenditure on social services has increased by 8.3 %. That is, if economic growth is far below the growth of social spending, it will be literally impossible to finance it in the future. And that must lead us to a profound reflection. And I'm going to offer you another data maybe even more interesting. Social protection expenditure, which is a broader concept than the previous one, was 9.5 billion in the Basque Country in 2003, accounting for 19% of our gross domestic product. The same expenditure was 21.6 billion in 2020, accounting for 30% of GDP. And by establishing a comparison, the budget of the Basque Government is almost EUR 14 billion. This indicates that the entire budget of this Government would fall far short of spending on social protection. This offers us another important element for reflection, which tells us that thanks to the solidarity of the rest of the Spaniards the Basques finance a large part of the expenditure on social protection. I hope that these data will clarify to more than one where and, above all, by the hand of whom we want to walk. The data gives us a photograph that many may not like. Our economy grows below public spending, and very much below social spending. This is unsustainable in the medium term. And, therefore, we need an impetus to our economic development as an essential formula for sustaining our social services system. And it looks like the PNV after four decades hasn't hit the right key yet. At the same time, we need to be part of a national project that, through its territorial solidarity mechanism, will enable us to meet the enormous costs involved in all social protection systems, which will enable Basques, among other things, to receive their pensions or unemployment benefits. Therefore, and finally, let us be transparent with the Basques and transmit the reality that we have. A reality in which social spending is growing in a remarkable way, where the impetus for our economic growth is essential to be able to finance it and where our membership in Spain is the only guarantee in order to maintain an adequate social protection system in the Basque Country thanks to the solidarity of all Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u14	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u15	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everybody. The social service system has its third year without planning. We've been in the pandemonium without any path when the most violent blow that the system of social services has ever experienced. And we have often heard that we ought to learn from the living, but we are still without any passports. The chairman of the board mentioned the reception, innovations, planning, a lot of plannings from the Ukrania. Fine, I think it was a long row of excuses. But, to be honest, no argument was given to justify the magnitude of delay. On the contrary, here I'm talking about... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... I think it was a long series of excuses, but, in fact, no argument was given to justify the length of delay. On the contrary, the two principal reasons mentioned here, the social and demographic situation, and the long-term planning of which it demands, and the crisis that followed one another, we believe that they ought to function as an accelerator element; for they have proved in our system, and as a paralyzing element. And that's where I share the distance, as the gentleman said, that we share... That we're living in a very concrete moment, that we're in a different mood, and that's what we're asking for a few plannings. But long-term plannings can't stop the commitments we're engaged to before they stop. And the Law of Social Services is more than ten years old. We have more than ten years of planning or planning than that, in the development of a system. And I believe that, when you do these projections and line up that yellow horizon 2030, it is necessary that systems such as the system of social services should be well built, otherwise we cannot (or...) 'Cause we can afford it. After so much delay, you've already agreed to come to the strategic planning point before the year. Well, we'll see. But the excuse is a long three-year-old delay, as we've been told by the planetal Plant of Social Services, but the delay is not limited to the strategic plan. The fact is that the delay had come even in the evaluation of the previous planning, and also that it had come without the half-evaluation that had been planned for 2017, and had come without annual reports of continuity. It took us five years to track, no evaluation, no update, and we didn't take the correct measures to take so much. And besides, without any expected space for a debate that is very important in this process. And we could also discuss the delay of the cultural development of the law of Social Services. From the head of departments, from 2016, from the wallets of wallets and preparations, only a decree has been published, from the post office. This legislature told him that he must receive only one servant in six years; he made an engagement to receive it, three years ago. And we still don't know what's going on. We also have a 2017 Ararteko report, which told us about saturated basic social services, territorial inequalities. Nor has any corrective action been taken in this regard since 2017. This is the panomama we have in due time. The chief physician defined it as a slight delay in interpelation, but I believe it is more than a small delay, that it generally accumulates great delays in proportion to the growth of the law of the social service, and that things are not done as has been foreseen. And there'll be a lot of different reasons, and I told the chief physician here in another, but I think one of them is your superior leader, and the political decision taken not to develop the public system of euscal societies. And the result is a model – not a system, because we do not yet have a system more than ten years after the adoption of the law – a model that solves the care needs in its broader conception, including the needs to support personal autonomy in a small, unequal way depending on where each and every one lives, sexist and mercantile. And it's a source of inequality. Eta ezin bermatu dezakeena gizzarte zerbitzuetarako onartua dugun skubidea berre osotasunean egikaritzea, nahiz eta silburuak interpelazian kontrakoa esan. And therefore, having arrived at this point, and taking no heed of the lapse of time, I should say that it is important also, I think this is not only a matter of time, especially because we are far out of time. What really matters here is what it will be, what it will have in it, II. The Stratic Planes, especially the chief departments of the II. The Stratic Plane, because he mentioned once more, that the criteria received in the evaluation of the Plant, were founded upon the foundation; and that, in our opinion, they only receive a single glance from social services, of a single political force. And it's an evaluation. And the assessment that should serve as the basis for the preparation of the II Strategic Plan - and we have already commented on this - has important technical shortcomings. But in addition, from the presentation to the conclusions and recommendations, the evaluation of the I Strategic Plan is marked by an endless of strictly political and in some cases partisan positions. This undermines the necessary rigour that an evaluation should have, undermines the credibility of the exercise of that evaluation, and hinders the necessary consensus in this area. This obviously does not mean that there can be no different policy options in addressing the future of social services. But it is imperative that evaluation be free of party burdens, and that the technical rigour that has presided over the discussions on the development of the Social Services Act be maintained so far. We believe that, on the basis of an evaluation carried out as planned - which is not the case, because it has not been carried out as planned - carried out rigorously, which has characterized the development work of the Social Services Act, the political debate should be confined to those recommendations. We should try to achieve a consensus similar to that of December 2014. And that didn't happen. I shall not here begin to receive the divisional assertions which are received in this evaluation, but some would have an enormous appeal in the future of the development of the public system of social services. And you can't take them in college. I don't think it's just that they exceed a legislature. They don't use a different exercise. No suitable frame has ever been created for this purpose, but the abstract procedures have been preferred, which have had many formalisms, but have been unable to sew a foundation. We've shared our concerns, even in the Council of Social Services and this legislature. And our concerns, for instance, are the homages made throughout the entire document for the cheques of service, and the proposals made about these checks. "Sellava a a afirmar que la preción económica vincula al servicio es un model de gestion, lo que es incompathia con la Normiva vigente." You bet already, I believe in that undisguised evaluation, and... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... Service-related economics is a management model, which is inconsistent with current regulations. You are already betting - I believe that in that assessment, without disguises, and I said it on another occasion - on the most extreme form of privatization, which is that of the service checks, which reduces the cost of services, but which increases the expenditure of families. And so, the need for care becomes an element that generates inequalities. Changes in this stalemate do not only require a regulatory change, but, I believe, require a deep debate, because they move away from the spirit that presided over the law of the public system of social services. Genero ikuspegirik ére ez du ebaluazioak. Eta uste dut della omisio bat, nahiko ulertezina gertatzen dena, because the social services system aspires to solve the needs of care and support, and these care is exercised mostly by women. And, besides, the nuke-snake was incontrovertible from the orin egun batzuk substatu berri den Berdintasun Itunean jasotzen den hainbat konturekin. Moreover, it is a matter of concern that the alleged insustainability of investment in the social services system is repeatedly addressed. I think we all know and we all know what that means, don't we? In addition to this, there are relevant aspects of the plan that are not thoroughly analysed, such as the co-sponsorship or the use of the interinstitutional fund. Fundamental aspects in the construction of a public system. We consider - and we have already said - that it is an assessment built on a final photograph that you want to obtain, a photograph that is not shared by our group, that we are concerned about, but that it is not consensual; and that it determines or can determine the future of the public social service system. The agreements for the growth of the social service in 2008 took place among the four political parties. In this you have introduced us, he only receives the look of your party around your social services. And we really believe that we must all try to recover the consensus of 2014, because they must have a support and support for the people, and we are convinced of it. I'm going to finish, but here the chief department spoke of the process of transforming the eucalyptic system of social services. I think it's a lot of fat stuff to build with no agreement. And we think they're asking us to do a shared exercise, to have a few compartments, if we share the support and support of the community. So that's why we think it's not so much to determine when this evaluation to come, −ze comes with a tremendous delay, but what will come. And what will come in that to bring back these 2014 consensus in order to create space. This law alone offered no such choice. Nor was the representation of any correction given to it, but we insist on it, and we will try to open those spaces.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Silence, please. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u17	I respect, thank you, Your Honor, that some of us don't have the point of the deadline, but I think we've got a significant delay. Because we haven't seen the plan yet, and I think it's a matter of total importance and meaning. And in this respect, I think the agreement we have obtained is important, and this agreement is said in six months, or before the end of the year, that the plan must be made and tried. I agree that I can agree, rather, that the objective of Podemos and EH Bildu - as Mrs Kortajarena and Mrs González have pointed out here - is not to draw up this plan with an already defined deadline and content, but I must say that the initiative is a show. And we do ask the adviser when she intended to proceed with the approval and elaboration of this plan, drawing up and approving it, taking into account that it is a plan that is three years late. And it has also been said here, with excuses certainly pilgrims that did not justify the rejection of a plan, such as the situation of the pandemic, which can certainly affect, but above all the situation of the pandemic what it should have served is to exonerate this Government, and a plan of these characteristics to have had it as soon as possible and to have been able to speed up all the actions that had to do with the elaboration and approval of this plan. It is true that the reference to the people who have been able to come from the war in Ukraine when it is later, for it is true that this is not, as I say, rather an excuse. I was telling them that the initiative was brought by us, if it had seemed so important to you to talk about the content, because you would have asked the adviser on this subject - as you have done on other issues - and you have not done so. Above all, we believe that it is important to set a specific deadline for drawing up, approving and forwarding such a plan. Bearing in mind that the adviser has also often told us that this plan - in connection with other discussions that might have an impact on this subject of the Basque social services system - was told to come as soon as possible, and a specific date was never set. The counselor herself fixed it the other day, said that throughout the first... as a deadline, throughout this quarter and before the end of the year. Well, this group took his glove. He's got his glove and we understand it's going to be like this. That is why we wanted to put it into an agreement, and we felt it was important for the government to be in this agreement. Obviously, an agreement was not possible without the Government, without the parties that support the Government because they have a majority. And it seemed to us very important, and that the important thing, both of the inquiry and of the motion, aside from other issues that you, Mrs González, reflected in your amendment, because Bildu did not reflect, did not have, did not present an amendment. So, I understood that it didn't seem crazy to you or that I could... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... It has reflected in its amendment, because Bildu has not reflected, has not had, has not tabled an amendment. I therefore understood that it did not seem crazy to you, or that there could be a coincidence in setting a time limit and setting a time limit for the approval, drafting and approval of that plan. Well, therefore, the objective from the point of view of our initiative is fulfilled: to place duties on the adviser. A deadline, which is referred before the end of the next session, and especially when we have challenges in relation to the Basque system of very important social services, its sustainability, that is a coordinated, comprehensive system... To respond to all the shortcomings that I have put on the table in my first speech, and above all to respond to the growing needs that we have as a society, which are many in the care of our elders, in the care of dependency, in home care, in - also - strengthening everything that has to do with not only home care, but also services and benefits that have to do with care, great dependence and disability. That's all, thank you. I'm just grateful, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry about the Jedi Party, the Social Party, and Voxi, who's gonna vote for the deal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u19	Well, then, forgive me for beginning my intervention in the reply saying that it seems incredible to me that we have to devote time today simply to an initiative that sets a deadline for an issue that the Government should have fulfilled, that it should have fulfilled at least a year ago, and that, well, yes, thanks to the... It is true that the People's-Citizens Group is again on the table, and it is endorsed by the parties that support the Government to say that we must do what we have to do. That what they have to do they had to have done a year ago. And, of course, I am also surprised that they say that our amendment is full of obvious facts. Well, it's just that if they're so obvious, if they're so obvious, they'd have to support them. Because it is true that what we include in our amendment comes to be what the evaluation says, and comes to be what was the previous participatory process, of the previous plan. When we talk about incorporating the gender perspective, it is that the evaluation itself lacks it. It's just that, Mrs. Sánchez, we've put it on because it's true, because it's not contemplated. Because today there are still many plans, many strategies that do not contemplate it. Mr Urrutia said that we had to see opportunities at this moment, at this intersection of issues that we have. Me too. I see opportunities too. And where you see the obvious, I see opportunities too. And the opportunity is: our amendment has six very clear points. Very clear. It is true that they are a model; it is a model of governance. It's a model of governance that we don't see right now. All of a sudden, now, we are going to take a very short time, and we are going to make a plan this year, and it is going to be presented in Parliament. But is that plan going to guarantee the real participation of all the agents? They said... Ask the actors in the third sector how they participate, how they are participating in this plan. He was complaining... Well, he was complaining... Mrs. Kortajarena said, and we also assumed it, bringing Parliament, a committee, to present a plan, that's not participation. I understand that if we have to be involved in a plan, we should be involved in making amendments and contributing from our point of view. Because we're talking about a plan that's for the long term, and that we were talking about a basic pillar of the system. I believe that, if our amendment is so obvious, I do not really know why they do not support it. And, again, I was saying... We have said on several occasions today that paper endures everything, and this is going to be the result of it. I think there's a fear of real participatory processes. There is a fear of real contributions, quality contributions, plural contributions. And if in the previous plan it was possible to pass with that participation of the three institutional levels, more of the agents, to move to carry out a plan that started from an assistanceist model to a model of recognition of rights, I believe that now, with the evaluation done, with all that we have learned, with the pandemic, with the desire to contribute that we continue to have the opposition groups, they should pick up the glove and not simply bring in an initiative that is only a deadline that the Government should already meet. So, well, for our part, we believe that. That the important thing is not to run, not to run now, but to build a plan with solid foundations, and that, of course, evaluation is a starting point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u21	Let's see, Mrs. Gonzalez. Now he says he thinks it's very quick of the deadline. And we're going to do it, it's going to be done in the second half of this year. But we didn't stay, did they say to the satisfaction that we were late? Now you think this deadline is super-fast. I believe that this is sufficient time to make and to collect the commitments made. Mrs. Gonzalez, it's not going to be the way we are. The road map is clear: to improve and strengthen the Basque system of social services services. And to me, what seems incredible to me is to do, not to set a deadline, which is logical. It is an amendment that includes a number of issues that are being made, or it is a compromise that will be made. Why say: "When the plan is drawn up, it is brought to Parliament". Well, if you don't pick it up in your amendment, that's what you always do. I mean, what are we signing for? All you want is to say, "Ah, it was done because I made an amendment, and I was accepted that amendment." No, no, It's just that you don't have to sign that amendment so that what's in there... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... "...it was done because I made an amendment, and I was assumed that amendment." No, no, It's just that you don't have to sign that amendment so that what's in there is done... or it's done or it's going to be done, because it's going to be done, don't worry. So, you said they're angular stones. It is that we also agree that they are cornerstones, but they are going to be made. It is a commitment made by the Government, and Mrs Martínez, to have had to make extraordinary programmes for having suffered a COVID-19 or for welcoming people who have fled Ukraine is not an excuse, they are extraordinary programmes that in life they had to take on, and that hopefully they do not have to re-launch more extraordinary programmes, because that will mean that we are not suffering another pandemic, or that we do not have other extraordinary situations, such as those we have had, which we have had to deal with in recent years. But, well, from all these situations we must also draw conclusions to improve in the future, and that is what is being done and that is what is going to be collected within this second strategic plan, which will be counted on within the second half of this year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. I will continue where I ended up in my first speech, I was commenting on the Elkarrekin Podemos amendment. There was one point where you were talking about the inclusion of the contingencies that are pointed out talking about minors and women's care, which is already contemplated. And they were also talking about improving system-wide governance. I don't know, we may have different ideas about how governance is going to be, the term governance, it would probably give us for many debates. But the question we were asked was: Is improved governance possible only from the strategic plan? Do we need a strategic plan to eventually improve governance? Or would it perhaps need more than a strategic plan? Because it seems to me that in the political debate in general, and in those of the social services in particular, we have created a series of totems, of expressions made easy with which we often want to mark the profile, the ideological profile, but this of the improvement of governance is a theme that gives for a lot, and probably transcends what is a strategic plan. And to present it to Parliament, yes. It has been done with the evaluation, it has been done with the first plan, and it will be done, I am sure it will be done with the second plan. That you want to be able to make contributions, I think Mrs Sánchez has told you in the first round. If you ask for a monograph, you can make contributions, and we will contribute in that monograph, as I think we always do, in a constructive spirit. He also spoke in his first speech and has called the strategic plan a written taco. Man, no, I think it's more than a written taco, and I think it deserves a more serious treatment. And in her speech as well as in Mrs Kortajarena's, I continue to observe what I have said before, a series of sentences made, such as that the policies are measured by weight. Ez will say... nik you had to say kuantititaboki neurtzen, euskraz age erdaraz esan dozu. You've talked about letting the whole system degrade to end up privatizing it, you've talked about dismantling. Well, I think a moderately objective observation of the system with all its problems, with all its aches, I don't think it allows us to talk about privatization or dismantling. And you've even compared it to Education and Health. The deadline, the deadline being important, is the least, in that I agree with what Mrs Kortajarena has said. I believe that the real content of the agreement's initiative, rather than in time, is what the strategic plan itself must be. And you have spoken that the paper endures everything, yes, mine and yours, everyone's. Here are the excuses, the delay... Well, I don't think it's an excuse. And I mentioned, for example, in the first word, four reasons, the conditioning of any strategic plan, and the execution of any such plan. It has been mentioned that the lack of leadership and the political decision of not sharing the public system. Well, we don't see it that way, but I'm not going to get involved in it. I'm not going to get involved, because I think he's more out of the car than out of any other reason. And I repeat, there will be gaps, problems, and decisions misrepresented, but there is no lack of leadership and no political decision to leave the public system undeveloped. Mrs Kortajarena's political evaluation has been discussed. I think that Mrs Kortajarena wanted to discuss evaluation, and well, we will have an opportunity to discuss it, but I would like to say one thing: we often talk about evaluation with political criteria, even partisans, and I think that we should be more appreciative of the work we are doing, because I believe that the political criteria..., or I want to believe, at least, that the political criteria are taken on the basis of a series of convictions, convictions of each of them, that they are subject to the scrutiny of citizens, and that they are very respectable, because I believe that the work of politics, among other things, is to propose to that citizen who has to vote where he should go. I'm not getting in on the paychecks. I won't argue. I don't think it's day, but I think the rating that's made isn't right. And with something... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... I shall not dispute. I don't think it's day, but I think the rating that's made isn't right. And I'll stay with something, Mrs. Kortja's, to finish it. You have mentioned that we should all make an effort to carry the shared country project forward; and I am quite satisfied. I quite agree with you, and I'm sure I don't like talking about other people, but I'm sure the government and the chief physician think so too. And it should be a lot of effort for all of us. Ours, yours and everything. At least we won't miss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Nice, Martinez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Unjustified delay in the presentation of the plan, Mrs. Sánchez? Of course I do. Are there any absurd excuses to justify this delay on the part of the Basque Government and the Council? Of course I do. You were telling us that there were a number of extraordinary programmes with reference to Ukraine's covid and war. It is true that there were, but I remind you that the covid pandemic began in 2020 and this plan, the first plan, had already ended in 2019. We had to have something planned and it didn't happen. I also want to highlight the simple maths that all that must also entail. And it is that if economic growth is lower than the growth of social spending, which I remember is a very simple math and equation, it will arrive at a point where we are not able to cover the social policies that citizens are demanding of us. And that is something that must be taken into account when drawing up this II plan. Because it is possible that, in the future, the Basque Government will not be able to pay the pensions of our elders or the unemployment policies that we so much need. I repeat: in such a simple equation, when the result is negative, it must be taken into account; and today, the result is negative between investment - what is social spending - and what is economic growth. So, please, we do recommend that this II plan take into account the economic capacity we can have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u26	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u27	Thank you, ma'am. I, to Laura Garrido and the Poptular, of course, bring back the debates that everyone wants here, and the concerns he has, and his plans. That's... And then every one gets hold of the debates, as well as of the necessaryities or matters he sees, does he not? And when we come to this point, as I have said, Ilegados a high, creo que no tant el cuándo, sino el qué. Yeah? Nik you have debate hauetan eskatuko litzatekeela -eta hau Sánchez andreari esango nioke -, you have debateak eskatzen duela susegatuago aritzea, eta hain autokonplazientea ez aritzea; because if everything is so good, so good, so good, everything is doing so well, so good, so well, so well, I don't know, the horizon is wonderful. And here we are facing some very important challenges and there are a number of shortcomings that are very important. I therefore believe that in an area like this, which must be a matter of consensus-building, the amendments and contributions that others make should be dealt with with with a little more carefully. He did not say so expressly for this debate, but because I believe that throughout this whole process, the evaluation process and the subsequent process, very short, very formalistic forms and procedures have been used that hinder consensus. This was the last of 2014 ko kontsensu horiek bereskuratzea. Orduan, hemen, ebaluzio horrek baditu gabezia ageriko batzuk. You just don't have a gender perspective, Mrs. Sanchez, you don't. What's more, he doesn't even analyze the impact of the covid. Orduan, baditu arazo batzuk. Orduan, you have been orinaren ikuspegi autokritikoago bat egin behar her, egin behar her; ezinbestekoa of etorkizuna wasikitzera goazelako. And I would ask you whether the Socialist Party agrees with the approach, with the allegory to the service check that is made in this document, in the evaluation document; whether that is what you would support. Because it is a government document, and it is, of course, the most extreme form of privatization. But, as I said, we're getting ready for the future. We also have to decide in this case how we'll take care of our own citizens and how we want to protect them. I don't think it's a big deal. And I think, in that sense, we must also have clear projections, and we have a projection very clear. We clearly want a public system of respectable care and public services. What we want is to have a reference. All we want is that the citizens, in reference to care and protection, should have that common reference, that public reference, which they have had in Osa, in the public service of the euscal societies, had for years. That's what we want. And, in that effort, desego... And he requires the effort of all, and, considering that the growth of the law of social service is also a matter of indifference, because in different institutions we are different political parts, some more carefully and others less, you are the leaders, and you have not hitherto led the leadership properly, and I shall repeat that. I think he's asking for all this effort, and we did it. We (... ) We presented our opinion of this evaluation, which we presented in this institutional organ. We asked to give the debate here under proper conditions, because the debate that came to us didn't even send us a document. That's how the debate was. And we believe this requires other proceedings, other debates, and other vicissitudes of practice. That's what we think he's asking for. He's asking me to leave these self-conscious, paralyzing tests behind him. He asks for the keen glance of the present and that clear vision of the future... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... to leave these paralices aside. He asks for the keen glance of the present and that clear vision of the future. And basically (Actually? ), that light vision of the future must be shared. It will probably be a plan which transcends a legislature, but we should continue to establish a common soil which our public policy will confine to. And there's a monographic here, isn't there? But in this sense, for the development of the social services, you voted against all the proposals our team proposed. For instance, in the decree of social services... To speed up these decrees that we received on that debt. You voted against that too. He's asking us to stop, huh? − a shared exercise, a political exercise, recovering consistent ones. And he requires the intelligent, planned, and just to answer the question that we have in our hands to build a political script shared. We will reject your middle course today. Because we think it's a negative, and you said, It's not a matter of time. It's kind of a different crew thing. And here we must see what are the priorities and whither we are going. And for the most part, in this institutional organ, the head physician of the artillery department announced the strategic plan for September. So this agreement of yours gives us but little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. We're going to vote for the half-conditioned half-correction signed by Basque Populara-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Euzian Abertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters of the league are 48; the contrary, 27; abstainments, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u29	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. First point in theme list: "Excellency of the Basque, Basque and Sports Board, of the integrated document management of Basque Autonomy and of the document-dispensation of the documents in Er-Hornami. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Zupiria has the word to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u30	The President, the legal chief, the congressman and fellow-citizens, all good days. This Basque parliament will be approved today of the integrated documents management of the Esquigna Esquimia Esquire, and the Act of the Document Ondarie is good news for the organization of our self-organization. For our community has an absolute jurisdiction over archives, libraries, and museums, which are not of the state's dignity. The good news is also that it takes a new step in the development of our administration. And it's good news that we're gonna protect our legacy and help to develop it. But I also hope that it will be a pleasant piece of news to all who move in the world of documents and files management, whether workers or professionals, researchers, historians, and citizens interested. I'd like to use my first words to thank you. The first root of this policy is in the law of Cultura Ondarene, which was determined by a part of the text. Today, we'll take another step. The project of the law which is to be admitted today was reached from the Department of Cultural and Language and the Department of Policy and the Department of Auto-Ringernus in the last April. After that, you've been working on the legislature, Euskara, and the Congressional Committee of the Sports Committee... and then you've been working on all kinds of legends and legends that agree and improve the law. And there were even ten scenes of sectors and experts on the committee. 43 corrections were introduced, of which nine have been admitted, and seven more half methods have been received, and 20 have retired. It is manifest that there has been will in the beginning. Thank you all for your work, and the greater agreement that will be made today. The purpose of the law is to regulate the management and organization of the documents and public and private archives of Euskal Autonomy Erania. It's a good time. So this is to emphasize the importance of the archives. Archives are indispensable tools to help us improve the working of our organizations, to ensure the transparency of public administration management, to enable us to re-use the restoration of documents and information stored in archives, to protect the rights of citizens and administration, and to secure transmission of the collective experience of our community. In this sense, this law, including the regular system of the Basque archives, and producing an historical Eucharistic file, wishes to give an answer to today and here to all the challenges which the integrated management of documents has over it. The appropriate and strong organization of documents is that it is essential to make document handling integral. This is the activity that has changed and modified throughout the management and organizational history of documents. Day, the area of digitalization and electronic information on the Internet marks that activity − in a large − balance. Today, from the creation of documents, it's from the very fact that it's accumulated for its management, classification, sorting, etc. Yet we are still in a mixed reality; a role and a digital life in a model. On the other hand, the management of documents and archives includes a twofold character of the new law. This is the custody and transmission of the estate, on one hand, and in front of the activity of the administration... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... the new law, that is to say, the care and transmission of the estate, and the right of the people to the activity of the administration. This law regulates the comprehensive management of public ownership documents, the organization of the Euskadi archives system, the protection and preservation of the documentary heritage of our community, the rights and obligations of those who hold private archives and the access of citizens to public ownership documents. The documentary heritage of Euskadi consists of a set of documents produced, collected and preserved by any natural or legal person, whether public or private, in the exercise of their functions or activities in the territory of our community. The inventory of Euskadi's documentary heritage shall be the instrument which shall facilitate the identification of documents forming part of that heritage. When therefore this law endeavours to answer the ends which it has identified, it unites under its influence all the institutions of the people of the community. If you enter into the contents of the law, it is, in short, about the following fields. The documents in public precision are listed and these documents are set to require a suitable management. Determines that electronic documents and digital media should also be stored in a resource, and sets the format and media to preserve them. The handling organizations for all documents are required to set active and persistent document management programs. All documents in the public precision will be evaluated, chosen, and available, and must specify periods for each entity to preserve or delete. And even the shard of documents to be made must be made according to precedent standards. Public institutions on the influence of this law must have a system of archives, with the necessary workers and resources. It is also the inventory of the hereditary Eucharistic document, as was at first mentioned. And I'm sure it'll take care of me to form that inventory, update, coordinate, and expand by a methodology that will be established by regulations. As far as the Euscadian Archive System is concerned, it will be completed by the seistants of the organizations that are exposed to this law. In the case of a major assembly, of aldunity, and of the public sector annexed to them, it will be voluntary to join the system. His purpose is to promote the cooperation and co-ordination of all these archives systems, and to guarantee the proper function of all of them. Archive system that creates law, another file system, is an archive system of the Basque Autonomy Public Sector. All the entities within the public sector will be complete, and their management will be connected with the Governor and the Authority Department. To end the public archives, the law also regulates the archive systems of space entities. And it indicates that all entities will be compelled to be their own file system. On the other hand, the law regulates even private archives. The rights and duties of private archives which form the Euscadian legacy are established. It is between duty not to destroy archives, to change or divide them, and to keep them under the right conditions, to secure the criteria for the documents, and to make it known to you, if it were to be altered. The rights of the citizen are also defined in the law. And the law ordains that every citizen has a right to access documents that are kept in his private archives, or a legacy of documents. Before it is over, I wish to confirm our gratitude to all the agents who have contributed to this law and to the improvement of this long method. The President has said, and the members of our party who make merry, that we have a will to go beyond the majority supported by the Government, and that our engagements with the making of the laws offer a wide circle of agreement to all of us in order to search and to cultivate. We have obtained a vast consent and esteem in this law which is to be admitted to-day, which renders the law still more valuable. That's all, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Next, passing on to the teams' turn, Mistto is gone. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u32	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good. I will be brief, since we keep some amendments alive to this bill, but, in any case, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Zupiria, has already described what the bill is and its importance, that we... in which we agree, an importance that already has this issue. This regulation should have been addressed for years. But, well, the point is, we have it on the table today. And we from the People-Citizens group have worked constructively on this bill, which will be this law. It was a necessary regulation, as has been said, and as the experts and experts who appeared here told us to update. A very necessary law to adapt many procedures, to modernize the Administration in terms of precisely the management of documents and the documentary heritage, so that those archives and for that documentation to be what it has to be, that is, those archives as essential tools in the relationship Administration-Citizenship. Like I said, we... Come on, this bill was introduced six years ago. And it was presented in a failed way as a bill. Things didn't go well at the time. And, of course, there's been a... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...and presented itself in a failed manner as a bill. Things didn't go well at the time and, of course, it had to be amended, and at the moment I think we're on another stage. My group has submitted, submitted, to the draft comprehensive document management and documentary heritage law, 14 amendments, in a spirit - I say again - of constructive efforts to seek improvements in the draft law. We have tried to do so from the basis of our analysis and the legal or technical study of the Legislative of what the bill was. And also from the basis of the contributions that the experts - basically, the association ALDEE - sent us, the Basque Association of Professionals of Archives, Libraries and Documentation Centers sent us at their appearance. Good. Since then, half of the amendments have been taken up in the agreement, in the compromise, and the other half have not been taken up. I say again, there are already three of them, the five, the six and the ten were part not of what our ability to interpret can be, but of what the experts told us. And those amendments that have not been accepted, I say again, three of them on a proposal to... They were important to us. There is no doubt that the text is also important as it will remain, but those who are working every day on these keys, on the keys of archiving, of document management, saw some glues precisely with those articles or paragraphs affected by their considerations. In any case, we give, we establish our vote of confidence in this bill that experts have also seen as necessary with some exception. We also have to say that, fortunately, this bill does not confuse us with language policy, like other bills we have on the table on some issues. And this bill focuses on the technical, it focuses on the technical advancement of a necessary issue. And, of course, we also have to make an observation at this time where we are going to pass the law. And of course, not a requirement - because the Government will see what it has to do - but also a recommendation based on the quality of the laws, depending on whether things are done right. Let us hope that the regulatory development of this law will not delay the years of the Euskadi Library Act, which has not yet been developed regularly since 2007. I think that's an important element. Precisely, draft laws and laws call on the Government for regulatory development, precisely to ensure compliance with the laws. And the way to comply with government laws is to implement regulatory development. And in that regard, let us hope that the regulatory development of this bill that we have all described as essential, as necessary, as useful, let us hope that such regulatory development is in time and form. We, I say again, as in other disciplines, are also moving very fast – and already said by the advisor – in the management of archives, in the documentary heritage – public, private. In addition, combine the different institutions that have to administer it, that have to guard it, that have to use it as a tool, that have to put that function of information and transparency of the relationship with the citizenry. In that regard, those rules had to be accommodated. And of course, as I said before, it's cost, but we have to go... After the failure of the previous bill presented in the 10th Legislature, specifically in 2016, which had to be withdrawn by the Basque Government. That was, of course, a... And in that sense, time has passed, we are at that moment, but there was a chance... Of course, at that moment, the Basque Government and Mrs. Uriarte at that time the councilwoman... because it was tremendous, it was failed. I remember the experts' appearances. No one liked that bill; everyone identified dysfunctions, issues that had little to do with effectiveness, with the efficiency of file management. And in that sense, everyone identified problems. The parliamentary majority had to submit amendments in their entirety: the Socialist Group, the Bildu Group, the People's Group - all of them. And the Government had to withdraw the bill at that time. Indeed, we have now been told by experts, as we have been told, despite some of the issues that have remained in the dark, but the fundamental issue is that we are at the disposal of, that once the regulatory development of this bill is completed, start, continue to work, but do so in a more effective way with this law, with this need for regulation. We have to say - and the Councillor has also said - there are very good professionals in these issues of document management: there are them in the Government - we know them - there are them in the outside institutions, in the municipalities; there are them in this Parliament. This Parliament has a magnificent documentation service, a magnificent library, archive, documentation service; librarians, archivists, documentalists who are also perfectly integrated in the capacity for modernization, also in this Parliament, of the administration, in this Parliament, which is also integrated in the scope of this draft law. In conclusion, Madam President, we have tabled a number of amendments on a constructive basis, on a legal basis, with legal input, in terms of legislative technique. And in that regard, we maintain those amendments. We shall vote in favour of them. In any case, whatever is not affected by the amendments we have tabled, we will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u33	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u34	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Egun where you're going. Good morning, too, counselor. It's been a few days since the official date, July 9. International Archives Day was celebrated on 9 June. For 74 years, since 1948, that UNESCO declared this day as important to humanity, this day has been celebrated. It is, therefore, this month that commemorates the importance of the archives, and at that time Unesco pushed this day for the safeguarding and effective preservation of the documents. Today, for our part, we are taking a step forward and landing that objective at the scale of our Autonomous Community and responding to the needs of archives and document management in this territory. And on the other hand, we also incorporate in a single law the entire journey of the document from its gestation to its preservation and preservation. On a personal level I have to say that although I was aware of the relevance of archiving and archives, I was very surprised by the magnitude, the framework of documentary management and the implications that these have in practice. Based on the essentials, there are no files without documentation. The documents are witnesses and provide evidence of explanations and evidence both of what has happened in the past and of the decisions we are making right now. They therefore play a crucial role in society, and can only be achieved through proper identification, due care and accessibility. During the sessions of the presentations we could see that we are in a moment of transition where two very different realities coexist: on the one hand, the millenary role, and on the other, the new electronic documents with very different realities and needs. We have also seen that the archives today are much more than long rows of books and papers. There are music archives, we had ERESBIL, they did not come, but the Benedictines of Lazkao, which among their documents is a collection of posters and stickers of 22,000 and 25,000 respectively, and which tell us about the demands, complaints and concerns of our society. The archives have evolved over time, and what began to be a system of custody and custody of documentation linked primarily to the historical documentary heritage has become an essential role in democratic terms. And it is that archives are crucial institutions for the exercise of good governance. Good governance has various characteristics. It has to do with legality, it has to do with participation, responsibility, consensus, equity, effectiveness and sensitivity. But there is not going to be good governance without transparency, and this is where archives play a key role. The proper management of documents is not simply to store them for historical or research purposes. Proper documentary management allows public representatives to hold citizens accountable for their actions. Proper archiving also contributes to more effective and efficient governance. At present, in order to respond to transparency obligations, transparency must be incorporated into the design of document management systems themselves. It is called design transparency, and refers to the incorporation of transparency obligations under the legislation into the life cycle of the document to ensure its effective access by citizens from the very beginning of the document itself. Document Management Systems should ensure that public information has been made available to citizens, ensuring its authenticity, integrity, traceability and reuse. For all this, archival policies must occupy a dominant position and play a cross-cutting and indispensable role in the policies of our institutions. And this has to be done by the hands of the archives professionals, because behind the archives there are people, people who know the techniques. Techniques that allow proper document management also ensure the preservation of authentic and reliable documents. They streamline processes, reducing bureaucracy and the private or partisan use of information. Like almost all aspects of our life, digitization has broken out strongly in our society, and in archival techniques, especially. There are now new problems that did not exist with the traditional role. In the presentation we were told about image rights, rights of use, transmission or copy of the digital document. The compatibility of the different formats and the cost and maintenance of migrations has also been put on the table. One of the main challenges in the field of archives is digitisation. Several thousand documents are produced every day, dossiers that must be protected, preserved and given access. And although the law, it is true, as the Councillor has reminded us before, it does contain the obligation to keep documents in the medium and in digital support, as well as in the original format in which they were created, we are faced with a problem of great magnitude and difficult solution, since there are as many formats as computer companies, and not all have the same compatibility with their economic interests, in which the Administration should not enter or fall. Here again I claim the role of archivists by the historical and long-term vision they have in their profession, which computer science cannot have. Specifically, the (law?) This is a necessary rule, and we have heard from all the rapporteurs who have gone through the presentation during the course of the procedure of this law. Professionals in the field who agreed that it was essential to develop a legal framework in the field of archives, and it is that we have been around this legislation for about 15 years, since it started in 2007 as a preliminary draft. Obviously, it is not a perfect law, and there are issues that have been left out. Some of them will be able to develop it in greater depth, we believe that within the framework of the law on transparency and participation that it intends to bring to this Parliament in this legislature, and we will also see how its content is finally shaped, since regulatory development will play an essential role in the implementation of this law, just as the economic and human resources that will be decisive in the future of this system of archives will be essential. For everything else, we also want to thank the other groups, the groups that support the Government, as well as those of the opposition, because there has been a good tone... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... of this file system. For everything else, we also want to thank the other groups, the groups that support the Government, as well as those of the opposition, because there has been a good tone. I think it will come out unanimously, we too will vote in favour, and we are glad that it is in this way. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists follow. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u37	President, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Today we are voting for this plenary on the Basque law of comprehensive documentary management of documentary heritage. A law which has been recognized as necessary by the whole sector and which, as a reflection of this, will - I hope - count on the unanimous support of this House. A law that brings together, unites and gives coherence both to the necessary comprehensive documentary management and to the management of the Basque documentary heritage, thus achieving the highest degree of efficiency in both processes. A law that will allow a transition from the classic view of the archive, conceived as the warehouse of old papers, old papers, documents of historical character, focused on research, to a model of medullary archive in the daily management of administrative documents and records. This law is also intended to respond to the unstoppable growth of electronic information generated and stored in very different systems and formats. To move, therefore, from document management in which archives provided a final post-production service to advance management that begins with the document's own design and continues to incorporate documentation information through metadata to enable its classification, management, description, transfer and selection for when appropriate to be retained. A law that will respond in the context of the digital society in which we live to the challenges posed by the comprehensive management of documents that require an adapted and coherent archival organization. I do not want to go too far in this speech. I think the photograph that will have been reflected on the screens in a few minutes, when we get to vote on it, in which is the best defense we can make of this law. A law that will, as I say, count on the unanimous support of this House. And I think that's the best message we can send to the sector and to citizens in general. However, if I may, I would like to focus - albeit in a very brief way - on one of the fundamental roles of this law. A paragraph which, as a socialist spokesman in the Committee on Culture of this Parliament, seems to me to be of great importance, because this law regulates, updates and protects the management and access to Basque documentary heritage. Now that we are back to listening to the mermaid songs of the collective stories of the history of the Spanish, of the history of the Basque; now that we are again talking about a supposed spirit of the perennial people in time, which serves to measure and catalogue between good and bad patriots, a spirit that seeks to differentiate between good and everything else to what is called a cultural tern; now that the old stories of the historical-cultural school - which, by the way, married Nazism so well from the beginning of the twentieth century - seem to be dusting again; now, more than ever, we need to guarantee a system of management and access to our free documentary heritage, established on scientific and objective criteria in the hands of experts and professionals in the field. A system that serves as a fundamental foundational support and support for a scientific history based on the use of reliable, original and contrasting sources. It is necessary to ensure access to documentary funds for all those who wish to consult them. Only by understanding the complexity of the past can we learn and understand the diversity of our present. Therefore, this law also includes a reference to the necessary collaboration with all those archives and institutions where you can find testimonies of our history, of our diverse, complex past and, therefore, rich in nuances: the Archivo de la Chancelleria de Valladolid, the Archivo Histórico Nacional en Madrid, the Fund of the Civil War of Salamanca, the Archivo de Indias en Sevilla, or the Archivo de Comptos en Pamplona, so many archives in which the cosmopolitanism of our ancestors has been collected. All I have to say is thank you for the cooperation, the willingness to agree and the good atmosphere that we have managed to maintain during the meetings of the Commission and the Commission. Thanks to Mrs Irune Zuloaga, from the Basque Nationalist group, Mr Josu Estarrona, from the Euskal Herria Bildu group, Mr Gustavo Angulo, from the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group and Mr Carmelo Barrio, from the Basque-Citizen People's Group. I would not like to end my speech without recognition of all those individuals and groups who have participated and helped us in drafting this law. Special mention to Mr. Mikel Aizpuru, historian, engaged in a thousand battles and currently director of Cultural Heritage. And finally, to my landscape txantxiku, Mrs. Irune Zumalde, second generation of passionate advocates of our archive system, our documentary heritage and our history, who has always been at our side when we need it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u39	Thank you, Reverend. And good morning to all. And welcome to the members of the government today to be here. I'll begin my speech with a reflection, and I'd like to finish it with another reflection. And the first thought came to me from the thread of what the Government spokesman had thrown. He has said, in some measure, from the President's mouth, but that the Government itself has more than once expressed the will and disposition of the majority in order to arrive at the agreements or to arrive at the consent. If this be so, and it is permitted to express itself in this way, I think it may even be allowed to express... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... and this will and disposition to arrive. If this be so, and it is permitted to express itself in the same way, I think it may be said that poes, like the great group of oppositions, is also our attitude, which is a constructive attitude. And though we know that the government has an absolute majority in this chamber, not only we in the law of the present day, but also in the laws which will be discussed next week, we shall see how our position, the builder and proposition, is genuine, and how we do it again and again, for the sake of this people. Therefore, this consideration, both of the Government and of the Government, I think it is important also to place this reflection on the table, and to set our position on the laws and politics which are made in this country. And as for today, I think it's important that we come to an agreement, because there's a subject, an archive, and a document world, poes, well, there's no such thing as... That's the way it's supposed to be. But we believe, and, as has been shown, that it is a very important matter, as a people for our organization, for our administration and our institutions. And therefore, considering this, I think, from this point of view of view, that we have all laboured in this respect, because we were conscious that this agreement was necessary. As they say, "A la tercera va la ventida." Barrio has already mentioned what happened in 2016, but it must also be remembered that this law is brought up by the third law, and in the end it seems... Well, it seems that today we're sure it'll be accepted with what's finally supposed to be. And I'd like to put the process in value as often as we're dealing with form accounts or so many forms of things, and even because we've seen that even − even though there's a deadline when it's necessary, and when we've seen that these groups have made additional appearances with the will to improve the law, they've been made. The forms, then, whenever they please, are not the problem, but the rules are not the problem. And besides, in this particular case, as has been shown, there was not an additional complexity in this law, because after all you were both divided. As for the contributions, I think the Basque Country has made an important contribution. And I think it ought to be a view to be in all the laws, which ought to be introduced from the title of the law; I think it has been altered and altered, and I think we may now vote for the title that this amendment has also been accepted. But that explains what probably was our oldest quantum contribution, because we managed it, somehow managed it, got it together, we've decided it between the teams. And I think in it, with him and the North Basque People and the Navarre, too, our historical relations with the Basque Collectivity and the diaspore are made of value, and this is a kind of priority to them, in order to answer the agreements by compacts and this reality. We presented them as a third and fourth additional regulations. It is true, then, that negotiations have improved further, and in article 16 have received two points in this sense and direction. And I think that's... Pues well, probably the biggest quantum contribution. We did it in the law of Cultural 2019, and I think that in all the laws we make, poes Observatory, we ought to attempt to overcome this administrative division of ours, or at least to aggravate it by laws. One of the other contributions, and I'm going to quote two of them today, was the communal archives. It's what we've been introduced, but I think it was a contribution that appeared in any case, and also improved. It must be said that in this law the archives of the movement of society and the communal archives, which are, as it were, a reality now, and for example in the historical file, some of them are received. But I believe that this also is important, that the laws of this kind often answer to the administration, or to the officers of society and institutions; but at present this law also answers the archives of the social movements, and the documentation and figure, frames, etc., which they may have, and we shall have the archives in this system. I'd like to have two items that haven't come in before I've finished. And on the one hand it belongs to the free content. We've tried, and we said what we said about this, that the documents of publicitude have somehow the nature of the public and of the free content. Always, by applying the legislation to protect the data, and choosing and choosing documents? ) When the committee does not announce the contrary. And, I believe in it, even if it was, the government explained to us the difference between the freedom, the access and the access of the free content... between public access or free access, I think it might be proper to mention something. We didn't get it, it's okay. Besides, there was a certain will and commitment... well, on your side, or there was a wide deal of agreement. That this is, in some measure, an account to be received in the law of transparency and of the citizen's participation, and I hope that at least this government of the Euscal Autonomy, at least, should be a pioneer, and make an important step in that sense in the law of transparency. And, like the last item, financially. And today, Mr. Zupiria has also thrown out all the local files, including − but the local archives, and I'm going to focus on having some duties imposed on them, and they'll have to guarantee, for example, that they belong to their own file system, but also have a permanent program and lead them to the necessary personal and personal means. And that's why we thought this −eta was one of the differenceal contributions from the organization, which we said was necessary. That the law should be... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and that is why we thought this −eta was one of the contributions made by the organization, we said it was necessary. It was necessary that in this law a kind of commitment would be able to guarantee that financial fund. Eta henera, aipatzen genuen LILEk, Euskadi Local Institutions Act, jasotzen zuen artikuluetako bat. Eta horrela jasotzen gives: "In those cases where the regulatory development of sectoral laws in areas of competence of the municipalities involve the realization of services, activities or services, the provisions of the preceding paragraph must be guaranteed", which speaks of additional resources to carry out them. Badago Cojuaren reports bat, bath, well, Cojua azken finan Gobernua da; Gobernua da bera. And we believe it was a reasonable interpretation, that some duties, as Mr. Zupiria has said, should be assigned to different municipal institutions and institutions, and we believe that there ought to be received in the law, as far as finance is concerned, some article or chapter. It wasn't like that. On our side, it's a pity, but we hope it's been discussed in the reglamentary and Norwegian development, so, well, at least that's guaranteed. Otherwise, we know how the councils work economically, don't we? And I said I wanted to start with a reflection, and I'll end up with a reflection. We have heard that this is a law for the organization and distribution of a kind of self-organization on the government itself, and we believe it is so. And again, we're going on a little salty feeling, because I think we've ceased to be a pioneer in some way, even in the laws. And I think that's something that's happening in every legal process. The operators are coming, and they say: "Well, if you ask me, la ley de Biblecas... "... for example, what he said was said by Barrius: "... fue pionera." Fue. But we're always talking about the past. And in the laws we're doing today, we're not being precursors, but we're probably very conservative, too conservative, and we're doing the laws which reflect on the actual reality today. And we think that we have to look forward to this view, and that there is some lack of courage in it. Now, to finish, I thank you, above all for all the agents who have made a scene, the members of the government, even the technicians, the aid granted to the lawyer, and all the technical services in this house, how not. Thanks to the hole, Alonso, Barrio Angulo, and Gustavus, for the position he had during the whole process. And that's a law today that will be accepted with a vote for us, and I think that's good news for this town too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians, Mrs. Zuluaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, members of the legislature, and those of you who came to this meeting to receive this law today. Aipamen bi irakuriko said to deny hitza hartzea hasteko. Lehenengoa, Manuel Irujok 1966an Jesús Solauni bidalitako gutun batena. Erbestean zegoen Eusko Jaurlaritzaren dokumentazioa gordetzearen eta babastearen garrantziaz hau esaten zuen Manuel Irujok: "The interiors of the Basque government of exile, of the incidents arising in the German occupation, of the Association of Friends of the Basques, of the foundation and activity of the delegations, are more suitable topics for them to be kept in our hand, waiting for better days in which to highlight technicians who classify the leagues. If they are destroyed today, the hope of that historic reconstruction, full of teachings and experience, is over. Whatever the solution, I ask you to take part in the matter, and do what is necessary to save the Euskadi Government Archive. It seems unnecessary to me that I intend to reason with you what I leave written. It measures the responsibility that we incur all those who live in these latitudes if the Archive disappears stupidly." Dokumentazio hau guztia gaur exitzen dogun Euskadiko Artxibo Historikoan dago, gizarte osaren esku. Bigarren aipamena, law-proiektuaren justifikazio orotidizkian agertzen da, 2011n Barack Obamak, Statu Batuetako Ohiaren President of the President of the memorandumetik hartuta. "When documents are well managed, administrations can use them to assess the impact of their programs, reduce redundant efforts, save money and share knowledge within and outside their organization. In this sense, proper documentary management is the backbone of open government." The first quote leads us to the culture view, the second to the administration view. The law of the Consecical Document Management and the Colony of the Document succeeds to answer both points of view, which is because the Cultural and Language Department and the Public and Auto-Community Department were agreed between them and the bill presented to them. This special condition, the fact that the bureau was legally introduced, really, was useful. This law regulates the management of documents, as it should, throughout the course of their lifetime, and consequently the information and the archives. This is why the long-term service will be given, effective and efficient, in order to face the roots of modern society, and not to neglect the maintenance of the long periods of the inheritance of the document. The text sent by the government was complex and complete text, and I believe there would be a great and profound discussions before it. This law must have answered two views: it came from the sphere or sphere of culture and administration to two views. Cultural and Administration views agree to discuss the life cycle of the document. It has been obtained, and this is the success and advantage of this law. When we started working, we saw it, and those who came there even in the show said... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and this is the success and benefit of this law. We saw it when we started working, and even in the openings they said that the document in front of us was modern and modern. From the title, the title itself expresses the meaning of the law, and the extent and extent of its extent. This law has been colloquially called the law of archives, of historical archives, of public and private archives, of archives of the Administration. Yes, it is, of course, but much more. It is the law of integral document management and documentary heritage of Euskadi. The exactness of the law has here been well explained, and therefore I shall now point out a particular case, let us see how far the regulation of this law will reach. In 2021, the General Archives of the Basque Administration held almost 10,000 consultations on issues of everyday citizenship: academic files, medical records, construction projects, scholarships, grants, aids, notarial documents, 10,000 consultations with individuals, citizens, either of us or of us. This data leads us to think of the huge number of matters in our personal life that leave an extraordinary trace of documents and information, and it is this law that must guarantee the correction of that information, its custody and custody, and the right of access to it. We are talking about documents retained by the Administration and the public institutions and the different organizations, which in many cases are personal or private and generated in different areas of our activity. In addition to the importance of the content of the documentation, we are also talking about the treatment that this information deserves. Today, the Administration is carrying out a huge activity involving all citizens and producing extraordinary amounts of documentation. In the private sphere, the same is true: documentation, information, management of all this, and in addition, co-existing with electronic paper and processes and digitization; a complex world that will continue to evolve. We face new challenges that require an adapted and coherent archival organization. It is a necessary and important law for the administration, organizations and all public and private archives. There are many areas that regulate, but it is, above all, a law that responds to the needs of the citizenry in that it manages, among other things, the information that each has generated throughout his or her life, it concerns us all personally. This law commits the Administration, the public sector, the institutions and all the services of the organizations in general, obliging them to develop the principle of transparency, to preserve the documentary heritage and to recognize and exercise the right of citizens to access information. We are therefore talking about rights and guarantees. To conclude, I said at first that the text of the law project was good and profound, but there is always a chance of improvement. And I think we've taken advantage of that opportunity. Text has been rounded out with the given corrections and middle-way agreed on. The contributions of all groups have been considered, and the law we now accept is a better law. One of the historians who came to the scene, the director of the files of the government of Navarre, and of the Ministry of Dondare Dokumental, said: "Es una ley compella, exhaustava, ambiciosa y novedosa, con una strong visiorio tertorial Moderna y con visos de perturare en el tim tempo y con muchas posibilides de unamoro reglamentario." This phrase explains the work that has been done. Before that, the Government's Cultural and Language Department and the Public and Government Department, their technical managers and so on, some of them are here and have been mentioned. Thank you for the real support I gave you. Even legal lawyers and technicians. And, of course, to you, Estarrona, Alonsus, Angulo, and Barri, my most sincere thanks. It's been a pleasure working with you and doing a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Zuluga. Does anyone want to participate in this second round? No? End of discussion, we'll start our vote. In the first place, technical corrections are divided, and if there is no opposition, they are recognized as good. He's going to vote together with the reconnaissances reserved by the Basque Groups of Popular-Cyans, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 6; the opponents, 62; abstainments, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u43	So they didn't accept it. They vote together the articles of the coalition with which they've been corrected... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 6; the opponents, 62; abstainments, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u44	So they didn't accept it. The articles and regulations of the judgment that have been corrected together are put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u45	They're approved. The rest of the articles and regulations of the judgment that have not been corrected together are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u46	They're approved. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u47	So they're accepted. And simply the law of the integrated documents of Euskal Autonomy and of the inheritance of the document is accepted. Third point in theme list: "Punciation of the same law as the parliamentary teams, of providing the residents for the maintenance of the public health system of the EAE, to offer stable and attractive contracts of quality. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u48	Good morning, everyone. I'll start with the subject. The objective data is the state in which we suffer at the present day − shows that in the past − has not been properly prepared and planned for the change of generation. The term may be used, as you like, but the situation we have at this day in Osacia, and especially in our first attention, shows that the policies that have been established were not adequate, and that it has failed on the side of the fun and failed in years from the health department. If an instruction can be brought out, it is without doubt, that this doctrine can only be attended with the fairest alterations of the time, with the chances of election, with policies based on headlines, that the wants of this people cannot be answered properly, and that it cannot be properly answered that it is impossible to prepare the future of a whole society, and that the rights which the citizens have less are obliged to grant. To observe and confess all this is essential, it is essential that we do not fall into the same stone again. To ignore it or to be responsible for the third ones is to cheat ourselves. I'm sure it's not a hundred percent to worry about, OK, but I'm gonna have to take care of everything that's in the government's power to do and do more. And in this sense, what can the Government do that may be in his power? Other things, change the pattern of contraction. The government can change the model of restraint. Por cyto, it's the antithetic of the policy that has been active and has been active, because this contractation model has stabilized the temporary, pre-precise conditions of work, has stabilized the deceitful OPE model, and has weakened the project for the members of the Osar. So he hasn't been able to help her to be a very attractive partner, much less to have first attractive attention. There's been a lot of talk and we're talking about getting ready for Osa at Osa. But in the first place, that's the contraction pattern. And the standard contract is not just wages. In the latest media we have had several conversations about this, several examples, and read them. And among these examples a young girl said: "El problema de la atheistia no son los sueldos, sino gatender a 70 pacentes a día." And we all have a lot of examples around us and we know them. We know professionals where they have to go through 50 or 55 queries a day, or what they have to do on different coupons or handhelds. You know, every professional has a number of patients. There's a lot of them running around here and there, filling holes. Or in holiday times, especially young men always get the same time of vacation to fill up the gaps of others. Or they're hanging off the phone all the time, "I'm sorry, you'll be here in an hour." Two hours in the pediatric, another hour on the planet, etc., etc., etc. And that's the situation in Osapart today. But under these conditions, the main loser is a patient, we're patients. In fact, we're not properly trained. And if we are well trained, it is because of the effort of professional health. And that burns professionals in time. And professionals are really burned. Look, there's never any other important element that hasn't been handled yet. I mean, every patient for the rest of his life, in years, only one doctor, the same doctor, and the same professional equipment... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... another important item. That is to say, every patient for the rest of his life, the only doctor in years, the same doctor, and the same professional equipment. That's over, too. And in the consuls we meet with a great deal of professional deficiency. But our lack of professional pro, which has been under force, collides, or, in other words, we can see a mistake. For example, seeing the structure of the Osa-Decture, that is to say, the officer, who is of 27.600, and who is every day called −, the functionary, who changes every month, and moves in a 2500,000 orchilla. There's a distraction there. Or see: 38,000 professionals were introduced to 1,600 plates. There you see that things have not been done well, that something is wrong and that something is doing wrong. That's not the normal difference. That is to say, the difference between the official plantilize and the real planilla would not be so great if there were any other policy of opposition, or if things had been made otherwise. The same thing... Even in OPE, the difference would not be so great in years as in other policies, and if the standard of resistance had been in force. It may be seen that the model of resistance which has been encouraged does not encourage stability, though it must be confessed that the Medical Department has made at least years the OPEs who have not made other departments of the administration. Another question is, what is the OPE model, and also the pattern of handling from this OPE model. It would, then, be a good start to change the pattern of contract. How the pattern is handled after that. And we think that this change should start from young generations without forgetting everything else. Therefore, in our discussion of the present day, it is our proposition to new generations, to plan the measures for the union of residents, to give them the proper standard. And we're arguing about it, because, as I've told you before, it's not decent to have young people hanging up their phones for the day and day to find them in their situation. If you really want to be prepared for the new generation, Osarides and especially first attentions, then things have to be changed. Things have to change. You have to stop describing how things are. You have to stop saying things will get worse or worse. And for once, for once, not to get any worse, not to make things worse... In order not to be mistaken, and in order to improve it, you have to submit, you have to take measures, and you have to change the policy. And we don't want to get any more warning from the higher authorities, as Mrs. Martin said: "Los años más complejos de la gatención prima están por venir." "Lo que que que que solar de molar de pollicatas, changer de pollica, remangars para es años pues no san complejos, no san tan divinentos." "Y say labor la tien que hacer los responsables máximos del Departameto de Salud." For if we continue to do the same, we shall find ourselves as we have hitherto done: how bad we are now in years. And we think it's not proper to cry all the time. According to 2019 and above 2016 and 2017 OPE, he blew up after the fraud. We tried to change the pattern of opposition. At the moment of his health we had given the medical department a plan to change the pattern of contract without the − the −. For, even at the base of OPE's fraud, there is a specific standard of exchange. In our discussion proposal today, as I said at −first, we have − the default from new generations, to attract those new generation to our first attention, to attach them to Osamate, to make a suggestion to the desktop for those young professionals to remain in ours. The talent that's often mentioned, your talent, to stop ours, because we need talent. Some of us will have more, some less, but we need talent, and especially we need new generations. This society, which is old, needs young people, doesn't it? It needs survival. And what do we plan? Well, what we're planning is that when the unions are settled at the sactorial table, the residents in the public health system are about to finish their course during −portation, through the pandemae, contract is offered when they were about to end up in the state. And it's done. So, you see, when you have a will, it's done when you have a stable contract to stay there, with the other professional holiday days for rest, and two years with incentives for salary. And further, what we propose is to enable us to concentrate on professional developments, to play on projects that can help us improve our investigation and membership, because that's what they're asking for. They want us to develop their procession and to have a future perspective, to be an inquiry, to have attractive projects, and that's what they're asking for. And we ask above all to pay special attention to the first care of the egoileans, to pay special attention to those who are first attentive to them. We ask them to devote themselves to one cup in the contracts which are offered them; that is to say, to occupy one diary, because there is a very great habit. And so we have been told of professionals, professionals, pros of great prestige, and very well known. It's what's offered to young people to do on separate schedules. And no. Young people, like −gu, need − with a single book, with only one cup, so they can meet their patients... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... young people, like us, need a single calendar, with only one cup, so they can meet their patients and make a lot of references to professionals. And, of course, we don't forget the rest of the professionals for Osala, because there's a lot to change when we're on the model of opposition in Osar. And that's what we get at the third point. We tried. We tried to make a deal with the government, because on Monday, Mrs. But this is how we made our suggestion to the teams that hold the government, but this is the answer we have received, we are not allowed to do any of the measures we plan. Well, maybe we can understand that the government doesn't agree with all the measures we plan, but none of them is, well. It seems to us the time to plan precise measures, and we see the community supported by the Government, and that the Government is left in general terms, and in what exact proportions these general terms are shut up-that is to say, it is not. Well, I don't know, he doesn't want to compromise or what happens, but he stays there. And we think, as I said before, that it is not time for generalities to be bored with words. Our professionals, policies, and measures are required by our professionals, who are putting the professionals on the table again and again. And, well, it's been a pity today with groups that support the government, that we don't have a chance to make a deal. It's true, and we're grateful to Dugu as we can together, we've made a deal. I'm sorry we don't have a majority. What do we think that's the way, don't we? beginning to answer the complex subject we have in hand with precise measures, specific politics. Because we know this won't happen any more than a day, because it requires... 'because to start takes time on such a subject.' Because we all know how long it takes to form a professional, because we all know how much of this kind of policy requires time. But then we have no majority, and our proposal will be cancelled. But what we hope to do is, as there are others, whether the government will reflect further on, and, well, at least, we are able to open the way to turn its pretty ones by this discussion. For, after all, what we need to prepare our first attention is to change the conditions of work, change the standard of contract, change the context, change the context, words, because nothing can be done with bored words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerza. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u50	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, congressmen. I believe that we are once again attending a more than necessary debate over the last few days and weeks on the difficulties and the situation of public health in the Basque Country. I believe that this is a debate in which no one can deny the situation of difficulty, the situation of deterioration that over the years is experiencing our public health and that, of course, because the recent pandemic has done nothing but aggravate. I believe that public health is currently the Achilles heel of this government. And, therefore, it seems to us to be a more than necessary debate. In particular, we were proposed by Mrs Ubera to an initiative aimed at resident professionals, residents, to improve their situation, their working conditions. Well, we certainly think this is necessary. This is one of the issues to be discussed in this debate about the need to turn health and public health policies upside down. But we must start by analysing whether we consider Osakidetza attractive enough for its professionals or not. And that is where we see or find the difficulty on the part of the groups that support the Government in accepting concrete measures. We were offered concrete measures in the original GNP. We have made a perhaps more general amendment, not with such concrete measures. But when the Government thus seems to continue to ensure that Osakidetza is attractive enough in working conditions for health professionals, it seems complicated, of course, that groups supporting the Government accept concrete measures, concrete measures of improvement. We believe that Osakidetza is not attractive enough for health professionals at the moment. And we rely on several arguments. First, because the main ones affected, when it comes to saying whether the conditions are attractive or not, are constantly telling us that they are not attractive, either through class unions in Osakidetza, either through more professional unions, more specific categories or specific professions or even through, for example, the College of Physicians, which we have been doing... I have also been making reference in recent debates on this issue. It seems, therefore, that with this initial analysis, it is difficult to accept concrete proposals. We proposed three elements, which were not so concrete, but which do seem very important to us. One is the negotiation with the public health professionals themselves. We're... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... we put three elements, which were not so concrete, but which do seem very important to us. One is the negotiation with the public health professionals themselves. We are on the eve of the umpteenth mobilization, not of the last years, nor of the pandemic to this part, but of the last decade, of the umpteenth mobilization of public health professionals, convened by all trade unions, with all their differences, and supported by numerous social groups and citizens. We also proposed to get a grip on the issue of resources. We need to talk about resources. Nobody says that resources are not allocated to public health, logically, it could not be otherwise. But right now, with the situation we have in public health, it is necessary to strengthen and allocate more resources to public health. Everything isn't fixed by resources. This is a debate we have also had. We say so too, not everything is arranged with more resources. Much has to do with planning and how these resources are directed. And here you also know that we have a critique of the management model of the Basque Government in all that has to do with what they call private public collaboration, where in a part of it we see a diversion of public money to private interests. But, of course, we think that more and better resources are needed. And then, the focus on primary care. That I believe has indeed been reflected in the compromise that they have finally presented or that they have arrived with the People's Group. Because the original initiative when I was talking about residents... If the goal is to make Osakidetza more attractive, then, of course, residents are a key point for this because they are at a time of their professional career where they will have to make decisions. And there it is essential that we make Osakidetza attractive if we are talking about that it has to be attractive. Make it for attractive residents in primary care. Of course, make primary care attractive to professionals. Much has also been said about this issue recently. It seems to us that there has been a great deal of focus on certain issues, responsibility in society, responsibility in the professionals themselves who do not want to go to primary care. But less is said about the conditions in primary care for professionals to decide for other specialties rather than for primary care. And I share one thing that Mrs Ubera has said, especially because they tell us themselves: not all are the conditions of pay, not all are the conditions of pay. Salary conditions in primary care, for the work they do, are also not ideals or should be. But not everything is the salary issue. It is clear that the main problem and what professionals point out when they decide not to go to primary care is working conditions, workloads and the development of their own career. And this is where we also enter the field of responsibilities. It seems to us that this Government often diverts attention and always blames other agents for responsibilities, in relation to the RIM, etc. We have also discussed this. Who is responsible in this autonomous community for focusing policies in certain areas and perhaps neglecting the scope of primary care in recent decades, especially in the last decade? The Basque Government is primarily responsible for changing policies and making primary care attractive to professionals. We are not going to say that the government is not moving anything. Because we have seen the amendment and the compromise presented to us today, and we think that, logically, pressure, mobilizations make the government forced to be sensitive to certain issues. But in the transaction to which they have arrived, of course, there are not two of the three elements that we put on the table: the need for resources and the need for negotiation with the agents, who are going to mobilize again this Sunday. These are very important issues. There is much talk in this Parliament about the need for dialogue. And it seems a lie that on the eve of such an important mobilization the political declaration that will come out of this Parliament in relation to public health will not make a single mention of this issue. I think we must first look at what the public health professionals are saying. Because sometimes we forget that when we talk about trade unions in Osakidetza we are talking about public health professionals. We are going to abstain from the compromise amendment that is being tabled. But we think that the Government, we will continue to say, has to take a turn in its health policies. We think it's being this government's Achilles heel. And we've been moving around in the streets for too many years with pissed-off public health professionals and professionals. Either they're being taken care of or it's just gonna get worse. And we played a lot. We are talking about the area, I think, at this moment more sensitive to public opinion after what has been experienced with the pandemic, which is that of health, that of public health, not any health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u52	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Chief physician, head physician of the Medical Department. Look, if this group has been critical of how this Government manages many issues that have occupied the Department of Health and the entire Government for a long time, such as the management of the pandemic itself, and we have also been critical of the announcement made last week, two weeks ago, regarding the reorganization of primary care, which for us in the end was a way of camouflaging a certain cut in the absence of doctors, especially in the area of primary care in our health centres. And we criticize that... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... a cut due to the lack of doctors, especially in the area of primary care in our health centres. And we criticized that announcement, and in addition, I put a specific question to the counselor, just as you formulated your inquiry, and I think we were very critical. But, as well as being critical, I think that when addressing issues of concern, such as this, the situation of resident staff that has to do with and relates very directly to all that is the lack not only of professionals, and especially primary care, but also to the problem of generational relief that we have specifically, there are the figures of the thousand seven hundred, eight hundred primary care doctors, one third are going to retire in the next five years. These are figures that I think speak for themselves, as well as the number of primary care places that are not covered, which are approximately 150. But while you're critical, I also understand politics as the possibility of agreeing, and especially in this case when I also see a possibility on the part of... or an intention, rather, on the part of the Government to move forward. For the same thing, progress is not enough, but I think that at the moment we can speak as indicated in the compromise amendment, and that we can have an agreement in these terms, I think it is positive, beyond the fact that everyone can get stuck in their absolutely partisan positions, and that they also have a sort of vision dye beyond differences in the health field, which have to do with clearly ideological issues, and that you, too, as left-wing groups, can systematically also bring to subjects as the subject of Health can be. I respect that, but it is not our vision, and in this regard, I believe that there has been a possibility of a meeting point, albeit minimal, and of moving forward with the groups that support the Government, and we have done so. I do not know where the problem is of not being able to sign an agreement, because I sincerely believe that unless we leave those things that differentiate us, we could have reached a unanimous agreement on this matter in this House, I do not understand where the problem is when we talk about offering all the places, that in the following calls we offer all the places that their normative capacity allows to have guarantee of generational relief between (?) and Osakidetza professionals in the coming years. I think we can agree on that. I believe that I also urge the Department of Health, to which at the end of the training it offers a contract of employment with as much stability as possible, which we have also expressly requested this group, and Mrs Larrauri knows this, to talk about stability. You also talk about stability in your proposals to all those people who are needed to further strengthen the healthcare system in Euskadi. And then, on the other hand, obviously within the normative competences that we have, we also urge the Department of Health to pay special attention to the people who are making their residence in primary care so that the contracts offered to them by the time they finish their training path are attractive and of quality according to the regulations in force; that is, we talk about the situation of the generational relief with a special mention of primary care. We talk about giving stability, and we talk about contracts being attractive. Other issues that, I say, are more specifically ideological because they have not been introduced, and we, if they had been introduced, would not have supported that text at least in its entirety. I believe, Mrs Ubera and Mr Fernández, that this agreement is not bad at all. I believe that it is progressing in the solutions that we need at this time of lack of doctors and doctors in primary care, and in that sense, I, beyond your compromise amendment, encourage you to join in too. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u53	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I, Mrs. Ubera, am going from a recognition I want to make. And it is that of which I believe that all the parliamentary groups that we are here want to ensure the necessary generational relief among the professionals of Osakidetza, which guarantees Basque citizens the highest standards of quality of our public system during all these years. And I share with you, I think we all do, that it comes from the hand of offering training, quality employment, stability and professional development. But said this, Mrs Ubera, even with the importance of ensuring the temporary accession of residents to Osakidetza as the specialization ends, we from the Socialist Party think that the bulk, the chick, allow me the expression to ensure the generational relief of Osakidetza, and the stability of the staff is in the commitment to develop the processes of public offers of employment that allow to guarantee that true continuity and stability that will benefit all Basque citizens. However, today you focus on the meanwhile. And as the mover of the initiative is the mover of the parameters of the debate, we have respected it in our amendment, but I have to tell you that, in our view, it is not the fundamental issue. And I'll explain myself, and I'll try to do it based on data, then we'll get into political considerations. Firstly, we must remember that we are talking about resident staff, that is, those professionals who are in training. And if anyone has heard any of the interventions that have preceded me, they might think that it seems that the resident personnel who are trained in our Basque Health Service, at the end of this training, are fleeing from Euskadi in search of work in other autonomous communities, because here they are offered precarious working conditions and contracts. But if you look well, this first statement already creates a more than reasonable doubt on its own, at least in the pay aspect. I say this, because being Euskadi as one of the autonomous communities with the highest wages in all of Spain, it is difficult to buy this mental framework that they have wanted to ask us today. In this sense, the other day the Director General of Osakidetza and the Deputy Director of Primary Care gave us a data. And, look, I take it as data. I've already said that the... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The other day the Director General of Osakidetza and the Deputy Director of Primary Care gave us a data. And, look, I take it as data. I have already said that political considerations will be made at the end of my speech. If you remember, we were told that a doctor or a family doctor who has just finished his residence in Family Medicine or Pediatrics has, at the moment, a long-term contract, offered by Osakidetza, of about 3,000 euros, in a schedule that, in a very high percentage of places, is tomorrow, from 8 to 15 hours. As I think you know, the average salary in Euskadi is 2,278 euros. That is to say, in this case, we are talking about the offer of a salary of 700 euros higher than the average salary of Euskadi, which, as I have reminded you, is one of the autonomous communities of Spain with the highest average salary. Therefore, the debt increases. If they leave, do they do it for pay reasons? I am not going to demagogy or populism on this issue, because we are absolutely sensitive to people who have spent ten years of their life forming and whose primary responsibility is to take care of the lives of the population. But I think we will at least share the basis that 3,000 euros cannot be considered, under any circumstances, a wage of misery. Let's keep going. As I have told you, there are those who have put forward a scenario in which, to sum up a lot, we are given to understand that those residents who have been trained in Euskadi leave our autonomous community after they have been trained, on a general basis, and leave. But is that so? Well, let's go to the data. I repeat the data again, and those data tell us no. Let's see, for example, the MIR loyalty data of the year 2021. In Euskadi, just over 80% of the total number of residents who have completed their specialization have been hired by Osakidetza. For specialties, we can highlight that in Family and Community Medicine this percentage rises to 89.5 or that in 16 other of the 45 specialties this percentage is 100%: for example, Pediatrics, Angiology and Vascular Surgery, Digestives, Cardiology, Thoracic Surgery, Pneumology, Medical Oncology. So, recapitulating, no, it doesn't come in bulk. We're talking about 20% that don't stay. Percentage, by the way, that is within the average of the last prepandemic years as well. Well, let's move on. There is one fact that is also important to expose. As you know - although I haven't heard anyone say it - Euskadi is a training reference in health and, therefore, there are also medical professionals who come from other autonomous communities to do their specialty here. To give an example, we can return to the same appearance the other day. And if you remember, the Deputy Director of Primary Care told us that we have approximately 100 family medicine professionals who are trained every year in Euskadi; 50 of them are from here – autochthonous, from Euskadi, and another 50 from outside. And when they finish their residency, 80 stay working in Euskadi. Well, there are also other factors. Because even if you and I find Euskadi a wonderful place to develop our vital project, I am sure that there are also people who think the same about their land and want to come back, or that, simply being from Euskadi or not, does not share our vision of Euskadi as the best place in the world to develop your vital project. But this is already the ground of speculation, and there everyone will be able to have their opinion. However, to return to the field of data, there is a constant that we see that it does work: the more medical professionals we are able to attract to Euskadi for training, the more chances we will have of them staying. And that is why we have raised in our amendment the need for this training offer to be increased in the coming calls. This is something that is already being done for this year with respect to the previous year, and must become a constant. And by referring to that as long as it brings us to debate, Mrs Ubera, of course, we believe that, at the end of this training, a contract of employment must be offered, within the parameters of quality employment bets, to all those people who are needed to further strengthen our public system, as we also include in our amendment. But, as I have told you, I believe that the diagnosis of the problem that you pose to us today is short for the challenge that we really have in our hands. There is a shortage of doctors in specialties that are absolutely necessary, and that is something that is due to the lack of planning in the MIR specialty offerings that have been made over the past decade, a problem that is difficult to solve in the short term. The Government of Spain is now trying to reverse this situation that others have created by promoting these specialties. Universities are expanding the teaching offer; the UPV, for example, has already increased that offer, from 250 places a few years ago to 330 places in the current one. And from the Basque Government, it is up to us to continue to increase our training offer of specialties and to try to continue to link those here who are trained with Osakidetza through a job offer that offers them a quality and stable job. But, above all, we cannot fail to be aware that this real stability and the greatest possible link will be achieved through the renewal, stabilization and increase of the workforce, through the calls for public offers of employment already approved and convened and the consequent annual OPEs. That is the diagnosis of the Basque Socialists, but it is also our commitment. And as Mrs Garrido said, we have come to a compromise amendment which, in fact, I think it is very difficult to explain why you do not agree with it, because it contains all those parameters. I invite each and every group that abandons the realm of the previous imagination that each of you can have, to think about the data and, on the basis of that data, to walk with us in providing solutions. Nothing more and thank you. LEHENDAKARIA : Eskerrik asko, Rico jauna. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u55	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. The chief physician, the members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days, all the afternoons. Today we are discussing an initiative whose title is very concrete: "PNL on offering stable, attractive and quality employment contracts for the accession of residents to the public health system". And I want to focus or highlight what is the title of the initiative to say or highlight what is the object and not to deviate from the subject. Because in other interventions it has been heard... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... initiative to say or highlight what the object is and that we do not deviate from the topic. Because other interventions have finally heard a totum revolution of personnel issues from all over Osakidetza, the public health system, and other issues, primary care and so on, obviously, questions that are latent, but that can be made other initiatives and that do not correspond to the purpose of the current initiative, and that I believe we must be rigorous in this. So, the issue here is: what contracts or contracts are made to people who finish their training, their residence and are first incorporated into the health system. So, we said, they are contracts that are, of course, in line with the rules in force. A regulation which, in this case, is regulated by the agreements reached within Osakidetza with the trade union party. We are talking about collective bargaining, but these agreements regulating these contracts are agreements reached with the trade union party. Good. They are to a large extent long-term contracts, and also with salaries - which have already been mentioned in previous interventions - which are, together with Navarra, the highest in the whole State. That are, on average, basic, 3,000 euros, 14 pay, plus the supplements that each one has for the posts it occupies. And this, moreover, in mainly tomorrow's schedule, which is understood to be the most demanded schedule, and the one that probably favors conciliation or personal choices. Thus, within these parameters, Osakidetza is flexible, or as flexible as it can, always in favor of professionals. But all this taking into account that we are talking about limitations, because we are talking about a public service, public resources, and that obviously the Osakidetza organization has needs, priorities, and in this case primary care. But the point is that you can't even cover some squares, and that's a fact. But here the problem or the question is that there are not enough doctors in certain specialties. And this, as has been said, is not a problem. I mean, it's not an Osakidetza problem as it is said to be. It is a problem that affects all autonomous communities. It is not a matter of political will. It is not a matter of Osakidetza not doing what he had to do. It is a question that affects all the autonomous communities by a cluster of circumstances, which comes from years ago. And now the results are collected, a bottleneck is made in the MIR quotas, university squares, and a number of issues that require a complex solution, which would be good if we all worked together to untie that. And, of course, Osakidetza is proactive in what belongs to him, but, of course, his ability is not decisive to untie where the core of the issue is. In any case, in their initiative they come to say, more or less, that – in their initiative or in their exhibition, that – everything is wrong, and I think it does not correspond to reality. They begin by saying, well, offer stable, attractive, quality contracts. Well, stable. I'd like to... When they say stables, what do they mean by stables? Of course, we too have included in our initiative "with the greatest possible stability". But it cannot be fooled that the people who finish the residences, their training, and are incorporated for the first time into the health system, are temporary; they are temporary recruitments. Obviously, if you try. Osakidetza tries to make them as long as possible, but they are temporary, and there you can't fool. Moreover, they are temporary, regulated through these agreements of Osakidetza that regulate the temporality, those agreements reached with the union party. And fixedness is only acquired with OPE, and that is so. Fixedness can only be acquired with OPE. And, Mrs Ubera, if you have another solution or you propose another solution to acquire fixedness, then in the second round you can tell me the same. But the fixedness, for today, OPE, equality, merit and capacity. So, well, within that temporality, obviously, Osakidetza tries to make them as long as possible. It will depend on the specialty, but it is already being said - the other day we have heard in different interventions - that, in particular in primary care, which is where there is the most problem, or to cover certain places, therefore, that long contracts are being offered - because they are called "long" within these contracts -, of a year, which generally - minimum, a year, which generally - are extended. And in tomorrow's hours, and salaries equal to that of the other professionals, medical doctors in this case. Then, then, they say: "Attractive and quality. The staff is one of the great forgotten in the public health system of the CAV. There are abuses, there are no quality employment contracts that can attract them. They are offered precarious contracts, and that is why they leave this autonomous community; they go to other autonomous communities." Well, let's see. Attractive and quality. Obviously, this is a concept that can be delicate, that can have its subjective part and its objective part. I believe that, in objective terms, people, most people understand that they are attractive and quality contracts. We are talking, as I said, about a base salary of 3,000 euros, plus supplements and so on, the highest in the state. Good. Adjusted to the regulations, tomorrow, relatively long durations. Obviously, there is the subjective part: so, the personal choices of each person, or how each person can appreciate it. You can't control everything at all. There's... People have the option of giving up what is offered at that time to, at another time, take something else, because they know that unlike the rest of public employment, or in most public employment, giving up - in this case, giving up - is not penalized. The renunciation of a concrete offer that is made has no penalty. And when the person decides, for whatever reason, to rejoin the recruitment lists, he knows that Osakidetza will again offer him a contract equal to or better than the one he had renounced. And well, there are some questions. There are some personal options there, but I believe that, in objective terms, you can say that they are attractive and of quality. And then he says, "And that's why they're leaving." Well, it has already been said: 80% of the people who have completed their training here, residence, stay. That's a good thing. And another fact is that within the places that Osakidetza has offered to form, therefore, they have been covered almost 100%; in most specialties 100%. Only two have remained free in total. So, those data, those two data, as to what attractive or unattractive Euskadi is, both for training and for staying when they end, are therefore quite significant. They're good. Obviously, no barriers can be put in the field; reaching 100% is very complicated. As I said, there are people's personal choices: so, people who are not from outside, or people who decide to move, or take time. That can't be controlled. But these data are good data in terms of loyalty and training, and it seems, of course, that Euskadi is attractive. And as far as the operative part is concerned. You said, or say, "before negotiation..."... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and, of course, it seems that Euskadi is attractive. And as far as the operative part is concerned. You said, or say, "before collective bargaining, after trade union bargaining. Well, right, if we agree. We agree that these agreements go with trade union negotiation, they are. If it is those who are in force and those who are regulating temporary recruitment right now, which is what we are... What we are talking about is that they are derived from trade union bargaining. Well, then, okay. What happens is that the place to modify them is not this. The site to modify them is the forum of which it is. Then they say, "Same days..." -well, stability, don't go away... we've already spoken, "Same days of rest as the rest of the professionals." They have the same ones. They have the same ones. "Salary incentives." Well, if we're talking about pay increments, pay increments are for all staff, and that at that time, the wages have those of the pay tables in force, those of all medical doctors, the same ones. And if they are reviewed, it will have to be reviewed by the appropriate procedure, but for all staff. "And other incentives." Well, they offer for certain situations, they offer mixed contracts... to be equal in primary and hospital care. Things that seem to be attractive. Or the timetables. Tomorrow's schedule, which seems to be the most demanding. Participate. Another question they say, "participate in investigations." Well, investigations, there's nothing you can object to that you can be involved in investigations. Another thing is that they fall, or that they are in the position where some investigation is being carried out. But there is nothing to prevent a person who has just determined his or her residence and who joins the system as a doctor, from being able to investigate. "Opportunities..." another thing, "opportunity to develop professionally." Well, obviously, they've just started and will develop as doctors, where they are. They were just starting their career. Well, they'll have a chance to develop. "Special attention to primary care." Well, we have no doubt about that. Osakidetza has been betting on primary care for a long time. And we also include it in our amendment. "And one-time contracts." Well, the issue of quotas is an organizational issue. They have to exist to cover certain rural areas, to cover the rest of the cities, they have to exist. But the reality is that there are offers, offers have been made for a single quota in Primary Care that are not even covered with those. They're from a single group, and they're not covered. So it doesn't seem that the problem is the quotas either. And in short, I insist, Osakidetza offers quality contracts and attractive... well, that part is subjective, but of course, of long duration, 3,000 euros we said the highest salaries of the state, they don't go to others... They don't seem to go mostly to other communities because they're more attractive. They're mostly staying here. Missing the... The problem? Lack of doctors in certain specialties, but this is not a question of Osakidetza, it is a general question of all autonomous communities. And Osakidetza, for it seems that it is not so bad, that it is not dismantled. There are also the budgetary data and OPEs that demonstrate this. And the agreement, well, it has not been possible to reach an agreement with you, Mrs Ubera. We have exchanged a number of proposals. Looks like you say we don't move. I think we've moved, just like you don't move. And good because we have reached an agreement with the People's-Citizens Party. Appreciate Mrs. Garrido's arrangement. And of course it will be what we support. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The one who hasn't ruled, Mistto-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u57	Good morning again. Once again, we are debating in this Parliament about the recruitment of professionals in Osakidetza, and also about the primary care service. A patient with many years of disease who is only offered diagnosis after diagnosis without treatment; at least without any other treatment that will have to be done. The show offered by the Health Advisor on this issue has been trembling. In an informative breakfast, the announcement of a new cultural model in the health care of Euskadi, supposedly caused by the shortage of doctors, is taken out of the sleeve. A model that would force patients to have greater mobility, also to close outpatient clinics, and to have nurses assume competencies that are not their own profession. Then, since he did not convince anyone of the probe balloon launched by the counselor, the corrections came, even the apologies for whether what he intended to say had not been understood by the whole world. But we all perfectly understood what he was saying. That's why he couldn't convince anyone. The opposition, we continue to oppose their plans, the unions maintain the call for mobilizations, and even their government partner has shown their opposition. After hearing the PNV spokesman, it gives us the feeling that the professionals of Osakidetza complain unjustifiably, and we believe it is not. The problem is serious and comes from a long way, as well as the inaction of the Basque Executive, engaged in empty promises of content, which systematically fails, and in launching announcements about reforms and reinforcements that are not concrete. And the sick man is getting worse, and he's getting worse. More and more tired of receiving as the only answer long and longer. Last Monday Mrs Sagardui again used the Health Committee as a press room. He took advantage of his appearance to explain his umpteenth purpose, to announce the expansion of oral care in Osakidetza and thus take away some headlines. But he has not managed to hide his intentions, which were nothing other than to cover up the shame with a smoke curtain. With promises, no commitments or deadlines; with the announcement of investments to strengthen primary care, which has neither discussed nor discussed with anyone. The angry response of his government partner, the socialists, at first outraged because the OPEs in Osakidetza imposed language profiles that could not be absorbed by health professionals from outside the Basque Country. But there was no disagreement. Then came the disagreement around the model, because the PES bets on close attention, and the PNV now seems to be turned into telematics care and service closure, which has been a cut in any other region of our country. Now they come to us with a proposal to expand the training offer, and thus alleviate the shortage of professionals that seems to be behind this whole mess. I insist, without any concreteness, without budgets, without deadlines, without figures - just what is needed to be a credible approach -. Because they say they want to guarantee the generational relief. Needs that are perfectly quantifiable to which to respond with serious, rigorous and viable proposals, and not just words. And careful: the parties supporting the Government urge the Government itself at the end of the training period to offer quality work contracts to those people who are needed to further strengthen the health care system in this region. This is also a very important point and is reflected in point three of the compromise. But what does this mean? That so far they're not... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... health care in this region. This is also a very important point and is reflected in point three of the compromise. But what does that mean? That so far quality contracts are not being offered for professionals who are trained in Osakidetza. Because if this is a point to take into account, we're missing out on something. And I'm asking because the counselor herself stood out the day after her surprising announcement of a model change with details about the contracts they offered in an attempt to retain the necessary talent here. In any case, it is as if there was a dark pact to avoid speaking seriously about the impact of linguistic imposition in attracting professionals from outside the Basque Country with contrasting knowledge and experience, to undertake the necessary modification of the imposition of Basque knowledge and public job offers. Lehendakari seems to be well served by proclaiming that his linguistic policy is no impediment to the recruitment of the best health professionals. But we all know that this is an almost insurmountable stumbling block, also for those young doctors who complete their training here and who know that they will not achieve a fixed place without a Basque profile, which is unthinkable for those who have not studied in the Basque Country. We are supporters of less and less euskera and more knowledge, less euskera and more experience. We have a bet decided by the best professionals, whether or not they are Basques. Ending a covert sentence to interinity for not having an unattainable and unnecessary linguistic profile is a barbarity. A linguistic profile that they also wanted to normalize in Lanbide and that justice has fallen because it violates the Constitution. And without facing this problem by little they will serve the improvements in the conditions of the contracts, because it will be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. In addition, the Basque Government, from Osakidetza, must work decisively to promote primary care. So that each time it is a more attractive destination also for those who start. Concrete actions are needed now and words are left. Moreover, a government that has proved to be very unbelievable and has made non-compliance with its promises one of its hallmarks of identity, especially in terms of strengthening primary care. Having said that, I will also make it clear that we will support the transactional to which the People's-Citizens Party has arrived with the governing partners. We believe that little progress is being made in this amendment, but we believe that even if little progress is made, it will count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u58	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u59	Well, today's discussions have changed a lot. We're flattered that we want to put a frame of mind. What we're asking you for is take a turn. Maybe we're not what we're trying to establish the mental frame, but you're the one with your pretty ones who're setting up a frame of mind. On the other hand, there's a legal pharmaceutical frame that can't be altered, eh? Today you've revealed it all over again. That's pretty clear to us. And, in fact, the economy, the contractation, the OPE... What can I tell you, Mrs. Larauri? OPEs no. Capacidad, gilded, mérito y acómo va eso de la electionidad, o el enchufe? Then there's a lot of talk about pattern management and standard contraction. Today, Mrs Garrido, I don't know, you have dislocated me. You've changed, or you've justified your critics. I don't understand why your speech came today. And we've seen this critic of yours as to how their superiority has become in critical moments. We've seen that when OPE was master in this house, in grafting or in deep discussions of pattern, you finally place yourselves in that part of the government and in that protection. And criticalness becomes favourable; it is lawful. If you share the pattern, it may be so. Then what we've seen today is re-take care of others. You've been keeping your mind on putting it in other people's hands and justifying it. But the point is, if all is so well, the fault is that they have others, if you're doing it for stability and so on. Why do professionals say it doesn't work? Why? Explain it to me. And why, if you do it, what is the matter with you to take precise measures and engagements and make bargains? For to make our bargains, Mrs Garrido, we don't have a problem, but if the agreement has its content and it has its exact size. Look. I was with the workers at the Spanish Consent, union reps, yesterday. There they made a mess and the workers began to throw out their lives and experiences. And this will understand what's going on. A working man raised his hand and said, "He was the workingman of Olathe," and said: "It is the order of the gout and Olivebele, as well as − other health houses, instead of being open till eight o'clock, to be open until five o'clock. And it closes at five." Well, the workers have arranged, they've requested their superiors, and they've arranged to be open until eight o'clock. And that's how they'll do it. Do you know what he said to them from the top? Last year. From now on, it's closing at five o'clock for the next few years. There's a lack of workers. Which one of them wants to close them? What's going on? What's planned? How can you say that? That's where you can see what's behind. You see it there, here. Realities. Reality sets the frame. Look. There's been a lot of talk about formation, too. Yeah? IR, IR... We know what politics are which Madrid sets up. But for years, the government has been looking at Madrid too much. And he has constantly done it with ease: hide behind the decisions of Madrid. Instead of actually betting our hands, self-control, instead of taking steps into the depths of our independence. And there we can have a great opportunity. And to finish. Today, the teams that support the government and the government themselves have decided to agree with the Popular Party, and so have they done. I don't know if this consent represents Ayususo and cider... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... he has decided to agree with the Popular Party, and so they have done. I don't know if this consent contains the Ayususus and cider patterns. I don't know if this agreement proves that Ayususo is following the Oddu, or is following the Oddui Ayususo. But what we see is that at the moment when we speak of pattern, the pattern is shared and united in this house by Poptulars and EAJk and Social Partyists. It's allowed? It's allowed. Each chooses what his companions are, what are his associates for what purpose and why. The rest, then, have nothing to say. For, well, it is permitted; and here also we have seen how the professionals have turned their backs and have chosen another way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. Basque Popular, Mrs Garrido has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u61	Bakarrik isateko, thank you, Madam President, I would tell Mrs Ubera that we are all talking to the professionals and the trade unions. You probably talk more to those closest to you ideologically, us with those because a little less, you don't call us too much either. But I want to tell you that we are aware of the needs and concerns of professionals. And, of course, our vocation as a party, look, is to be useful to citizens, as we have recently been in the elections in Andalusia. Where, by the way, we have been voted on and an absolute majority. Nor do we systematically place ourselves in the no by the no when agreements can be reached. Look, I could have brought it here, and of course I was going to say it in the first intervention, I'm going to say it in the second. When we talk about being attractive we can focus on many aspects, one of them, of course, is a generalized scenario of lack of doctors, nurses, midwives, health personnel in the end, because it is the demand of the Basque. You know that I have brought specific initiatives on this subject here, of course I have; because the demand of the Basque woman, the excessive demand of the Basque woman in relation to other merits is a determining factor in gaining access to public employment. Yeah. Do you think it is normal that the same language profile can be required for a nurse in Azpeitia, in Oiartzun, as in Vitoria? No, we don't think so. We believe that the demand of the Basque should be adapted, both in the profiles and in their demand as merit, to the sociolinguistic reality of each area. Or do you think it's okay that in the end the euskera serves to... as much as the PL3, 18 points, a master's degree, a doctorate, two, four points. Those who know Basque, in the end, are placed at the beginning of the table, but then it turns out that when they have to choose destinations, they choose health centers from the capitals, which is precisely where the demand for Basque is lower. That is, the system as designed in that sense can say that it makes water. But we wanted to leave that issue aside, because, in addition, you have brought here a very concrete initiative, is that you talk about offering stable, attractive and quality work contracts for the accession of residents to the public health system of the VAC. And I think that the agreement reached, and I want to thank Mrs Larrauri and Mr Rico for the willingness to reach the agreement, because we wanted to introduce some element into that agreement, it has been felt so, and we believe it is a step forward. It is that you here today brought a very specific question. And then, it gives me the feeling that in the amendment they have signed and signed with Podemos, they put the ideological issues that accompany their speech in this matter as well. And I am sorry, Mrs Ubera, that this is so, because today we were talking about a very specific issue within the scope of our competence. And we believe that this agreement is to move forward. Another thing I also say to you, and you also know of my vehemence and my work as a parliamentarian because you know me many years ago and we have shared many debates, which we are then demanding. And we will also be demanding when it comes to demanding results and evaluating what this Basque Government is doing, because we have always done so. But for today, for us, the important thing is to reach an agreement of minimums, especially on a question that you have brought very concretely. And, therefore, we believe that this agreement gives opportunities to take measures to resolve the situation of the residents who finish their studies in Euskadi, and the possibility that they will remain here in a generalised scenario of lack of doctors, where facilities must be put. One of them would also be to review the profiles and demand of the Basque as merit in the OPEs of Osakidetza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u62	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Ubera, you are very unreliable. I have to say it like that. You have shown today that you care about the content of any agreement reached in this Parliament. It's not the first time. But today it has done so ostensibly. And in his second speech he made it absolutely clear. Look, a person a long time ago told me that when you go to a debate, it's best to go with data to fight. And there you will see that there is one whom you have given in the sky of your mouth, and then he will rise from the matter because he cannot beat you. And that's what you've done. Five minutes, five minutes of replication, 40 seconds on the subject. The fan, the fan is that strategy you have, that of the fan. They're not reliable. They care about the health situation, and much more about reaching agreements to resolve it. Because when we reach out to them, they hit her. What they want is the banner. For you the banner, which we have long learned that, in addition to being on the banner, you have to give the call to find solutions. And that person also told me that there will be others who do what they do is shut up; which is what they have done We can stay and not go out to the replica. Of course, because we've put in data... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... said that person that there will be others who do what they do is shut up, which is what they have done We can stay and not go out to the replica. Sure, because we've put data on the table. And I warned him. You have brought us here a debate that is not the problem. Look, there are many problems in health, in health, in the Basque Country, in all the autonomous communities, in Spain, in Europe, because we forget that we have passed a pandemic. I believe that you, Mrs Ubera, who has had us in the Committee on Health day, evening and evening, must not be forgotten. No, you don't have to forget. Of course, it's just that you're champions in plotting. No, this is because there is no proper answer. Excuse me? Is the lack of health professionals and health specialists a problem only in Euskadi? Is it just a problem in Euskadi? No, right? What's more, is it just a problem in Spain? Neither, either. And we are putting, day by day, mechanisms to put solutions. We, from the Government of Spain, make the MIR training offers in these specialties that for decades have not been contemplated as they should have been contemplated develop. You accuse him now - I was surprised -, you told the counselor: "We had to have used self-government." Are you asking him to take out MIR seats? You know it can't be done. Well, I already know that in EH Bildu's independence ideatory we could do anything, but you know it can't be done. It's just, of course, Mrs. Ubera, you don't care, you don't care. It's all for slugs, slugs, slugs. And that's not the case. It's not like that. I'm so sorry. I think you have missed the opportunity to demonstrate the usefulness of EH Bildu for something, for something as important as putting solutions to health problems. And, I'm telling you, we're going to stay on the road. The Socialists are on it. And when we like one thing, we say it; when we don't like anything else, we also say it and we don't shut up. But I'm contributing, I'm contributing, Mrs. Ubera. It can be done. Look, you can be useful to the citizenry. It's an impressive thing. I, lords of EH Bildu, lords of Podemos, have not been in this one, but I expect you in the next. Likewise, among all of us, we are serious about solving the health problems of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u64	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u65	Thank you, Mrs. President. You, Mrs. Ubera, don't care what you say or do. It doesn't matter exactly. You're still with your mistake that's wrong. The subject of fijeza, the subject of temporality-fijeza, I don't know what system he proposes. We are talking that they are temporary; of course, they are governed by a contract, by an agreement, and when they acquire the fixedness by the OPE they will be fixed. What do you propose? What do you propose? Because I told him to propose a system, to propose something in the second round, and he doesn't say anything. He made a fool of himself. It said "equality, merit, capacity and electricity." Are you ridiculing the correct system of access to the public service? It's just that it doesn't interest you to act properly, it's just that just like you, you, it doesn't interest you, it doesn't interest you to act correctly. And please, the next time don't say electricity. Don't go with... Say plug. Are they plugged in? Are the people who pull out the OPE plugged in? What does it have to be? Do people who finish their residency and enter the system for the first time have to stay forever? Who has to decide that, any head of service? Do you have to stay there forever? Or does a union have to decide? No, they will have to go through a system, a OPE that is regulated by the principles of equality, merit and capacity. And you don't like it, Mrs. Ubera, you don't like it, and you talk about a stable word. He speaks and says stable. What's stable? Of course, stability as far as possible, but they are temporary until fixed by the OPE. And don't cheat, don't cheat. And of course, in any procurement there are issues to be addressed, issues to be improved. Probably, in the hiring of Osakidetza, in the hiring of this that we are talking about, which are temporary hirings, there is something to smooth out, to improve, and there is something in it. But don't say everything's wrong. And watch out for the plugs, because they're denigrating the professionals in Osakidetza, they're denigrating them. And then the issue of workloads. It says 70. Do not invent data, which are measures 28, from doctors - 28 caretakers; 18, pediatricians; and 14, infirmary. Don't invent the data. It says "lack of concretion." It's just that the lack of concreteness I don't know what you're talking about. We have said that temporary hirings minimum conditions, long duration, 3,000 euros on average - the same as the rest - tomorrow's hours. It's just... Sure. Those are the general conditions. Is that concrete what it is to put DNI, surnames, concrete destiny, the post? Man, that will be a specific matter of the contract, but it is that the general issues are defined and have been put forward. I just don't know what they want. Then he says, "Everything's fatal." Well, rejuvenate. Osakidetza can have the age range of the working age, right? From the 20s and peaks to the 65s. Or are some of us going to take them away? Rejuvenate yes, but everyone can be. "And it's dismantled, it's all fatal." Well, here the average expenditure, the public health expenditure per Euskadi person is 2,000 euros per person per year - the highest in the whole state - followed by Asturias, Navarre, Extremadura, Valencia -1,500 ya-. And the lowest of the table: Catalonia, 1,400; Andalusia, 1300; Madrid, 1,300 euros. I don't know. I don't think... Osakidetza is pretty good. Euskadi's budgets in health: in 2022, 4.3 billion euros. Nor does it seem that Osakidetza is dismantled. And OPE: 3,575 places; 838 for doctors; and the previous one, 915 for doctors. Nor does it seem to be being dismantled, with annual OPEs. The highest salaries in the entire State. Nor does Osakidetza seem to be attractive. And they're leaving. It says "and they go and they go." And where do they go? Where are they going? They're going, they're going, where are they going? We have already said that there are, of course, personal choices, but that 80% remain here. It doesn't look like Osakidetza is not attractive. But the problem is, there are no doctors. Let's see, it's just... And you know that. And that is not a problem of Osakidetza, it is a problem of the whole State, of all the autonomous communities. I don't know. Well, which one is more like you? That happens in all communities of all political signs. Which one's more like you? Which one? What could it be? Cataluña? Or Madrid? I don't know. Likewise, (...) you end up in Madrid. Empty Catalonia cries out for the... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... The political signs, which one do you tune most? Which one? Which one? Can it be Catalonia or Madrid? I don't know. It's the same as (...?) Madrid. "Empty catalluña proclaims... emptied cries for lack of doctors." This is from this year, recently. Okay. "The College of Physicians of Catalonia urges health measures to prevent this summer's collapse." The lack of... Herald of Aragon... Provinces, Valencian Community, June, "The lack of doctors threatens to close beds in hospitals". Herald of Aragon, "Health centers see untenable summer". Let's see, they're all, they're all. And Madrid, the last one too, we also have Madrid, the same is closest to you. And we agree with who wants to agree. You if you don't move the initial position, obviously there's no way. And we in the positions make an offer, we have reached an agreement and we have reached an agreement with Mrs Garrido, the People's Party. But make sure that you are the only one who will remain unsupported by our compromise amendment. He's going to abstain. We can and he's going to vote for Vox as well. You're the only one who's gonna stay... You're the only one who's gonna stay out. The only one. And outside...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u67	... And outside, that probably means something. There is a lack of political will, as it does not seem. And the other day the counselor makes some statements exposing the reality, the problem that is in reality. And it seems that you have found a line there to say that everything is wrong. But I'd recommend that you be more cautious because you're scorning... in the background it is discrediting the professionals of Osakidetza. And Basque citizenship continues to perceive that Osakidetza is of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Mist must not speak. So, when the discussion's over, we're going to vote EH Collect and we're gonna have the half-direction signed by Podemos Edemos Ezus. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u69	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 48; the opponents are 21; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u70	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "In like manner," said Podemos-Nodemus, "as the parliamentary team of the United States, concerning the creation of a table where the words of the allegiance of the Oncological Council are written. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, representing the Animal Team, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u71	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies counselors. Donostia Onkologikoa, a monographic centre dedicated exclusively to the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer and Gipuzkoa identity mark, has been one of the leading centres in this field. It has resulted in the concentration of more than 300 organized professionals in multidisciplinary functional units, which has led to the study of each oncological process through the corresponding functional unit, thus offering therapeutic plans adapted to the needs of each patient. Now, on the other hand, the situation is quite different. Several of the services offered there have been closed, as is the case with the laboratory, pathological anatomy and even the tanatorium, a fundamental space for firing relatives or people close to them. And as a result of these closures, many of the professionals have seen their occupations go to waste. Thus reaching a situation of underutilization of the resources provided for therein. Onkologiko even had, or better yet had, a pointer treatment in relation to the machinery available to it for chemo, for chemotherapy treatments. And at the moment, much of these materials are not being used in these facilities. This monographic health care medium of unique oncology care in Euskadi does not live its best moment. And this has been reported by both the Onkologikoa company committee and the Patient and User Commission, who have denounced major organizational dysfunctions and serious losses in the quality of care. This is generating great anxiety and insecurity in much of the workers, and that obviously results in a loss of quality in the service that is provided. Since 2019, starting with the Osakidetza Liaison Agreement, the integration of Onkologikoa into the Basque health service for the provision of health services is being promoted. But such a process is not being as fluid as expected. In the same building, even with the same disease, one can receive two different treatments, with different rhythms, with different staff. Far from developing the association agreement with Osakidetza, where the organic and structural integration of the Onkologikoa centre in the Basque public health network is reflected, many of the workers at the Onkologikoa centre have been displaced to other centers in Osakidetza, and, inversely, Osakidetza workers have been displaced to Onkologiko. Thus, professional teams that worked indisputably have been decomposed and specialist doctors have left the monographic centre. To talk about integration, in addition to Osakidetza having to assume the property ownership of the Onkologiko centre, she must also assume and integrate her workers into her own public health network. In such a way that they are recognized as workers of the Basque public administration or indefinite workers not attached to the public institution. It does not seem to make much sense to argue impossibility with regard to the integration of staff, since there are very similar cases where the public administration has exercised this power to employ employees. Cases like Basurto Hospital or Mondragon Hospital. There's power, there's no will. Osakidetza, even though she was able to do so, has not assumed Onkologikoa's workers as her own workforce. And the result is that today in Onkologikoa there are two classes of workers within the same professional category... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... Onkologikoa workers as their own workforce. And the result is that today, in Onkologikoa, there are two classes of workers within the same professional category: those of Oncological on the one hand and those of Osakidetza on the other, without any organic integration between them. For all this, and for many more reasons than both users and workers will know more closely and accurately, we can say that the care quality that has characterized Donosti's Onkologikoa is far from what it was. Even more so when unfortunately the data from the cancer condition in Gipuzkoa reveal a mortality rate not consistent with the presence of a pointer center like this. And it's a real shame, because both Gipuzkoa and the entire Basque community are missing a referral service, excellent in cancer methods and services. Whatever the case, we are now faced with the last year of Osakidetza's linkage plan, so it is time, first of all, to analyze the fate that Oncology has had in recent years, and also to draft the new linkage agreement that improves both the functionality of the center and the assistance to users and patients. We are facing a new cycle, a new stage, which opens up the possibility of avoiding past disagreements and drafting a firm binding agreement. A convention that truly serves to correct the situation and thus reaffirm the undisputed quality of Onkologikoa. A binding agreement that is drafted with the indispensable participation of both agents linked to the workers of Onkologikoa, as well as by listening to representatives of patients and users. As stated in Decree 127/2018, the legal framework by which Osakidetza is linked to Onkologikoa, when it states that the provision of benefits insured on a public basis must be carried out in accordance with the principle of participation of citizens and their trade union representatives. For all these reasons, among other things, we urge the Basque Government, through our original initiative, to create a table with the participation of representatives of Onkologikoa's workers, as well as of representatives of patients and users, with the aim of carrying out a shared analysis of the linking process carried out so far, as well as of drafting a binding agreement for the next three years. And here we have incorporated the need for this agreement to include the necessary integration of the workers of Onkologikoa, as well as the transfer of ownership to public ownership, through the transactional that we have achieved with EH Bildu. Basically, the fundamental reason why we have not reached a compromise with the parliamentary groups that support the Government is that it is involved in this process of developing the new binding agreement. Participation and taking them into account is basically the reason why a transaction has not been possible. I repeat, it has basically been because the parliamentary groups supporting the Basque Government did not envisage the possibility of setting up, first of all, a table of participation with these representatives, as well as with the groups representing the patients and users of the service, and that in taking account of these groups their views were, in a way, taken into account in the development of the new binding agreement. It has been considered that it should not be, and for us it has been an element that both in the Gipuzkoa Boards and here is fundamental, and therefore the transactional has not been possible. In any case, we do appreciate the efforts to reach an agreement, because we were close, and it has basically been the fundamental element by which the transactional has not been possible. In any case, that is the crux of the matter. For us it must be relaunched a service that has been leading, as is the Oncological, in Gipuzkoa and throughout the autonomous community. To this end, it is necessary to take into account all workers in the service, to integrate them into the public network in order to ensure that there is an organic integration and that there is no uncoordinated integration, and to recover - let us say - the character - as it said - the point of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u73	Good morning again. At this moment, when there's a lack of professional health, when we need substructures more than ever, when we need professional health, the other, because of the covid pand pande, when we have to return to the diagnosiss of cancer and the negative impact that had been attended with care, and when we have to re-establish the rhythm again, to diminish the ovological infrastructure and professional pros, is irresponsible. It's unacceptable. And that's what's happening. Remember, as Biocruces and Osarides expressed in a report which he had written in 2021, that the effects of cancer in our average term will be severe. With detailed data, Mr. Rico, he was getting precise information, and I'm going to give you the facts now. Why? Because the entrance to Diagnostics has been blocked because the first attention has been closed and half closed. Less Diagnostics have been done, but less diagnosis doesn't mean the cancer isn't there. First attention is the harpsichord for the early cancer detection. The siftings also ceased for a moment, and at least for a year the symptoms of colonine and cancer breast were delayed. In this report of memberships, he produced a calculation of those who had remained without cancer, made a prospecation, received that the advanced 1695 neoplasis of the colony had not been detected, and that 30% of the population had not been invited to the camps. And the result was that there were a number of suggestions which required the recovery of the rhythm so as to penetrate into the monitoring and evaluate the effect of the pandemia, so that the quick detection of cancer could be compatible with COVID-19. Remember that, between 2000 and 2013, the development of EAE cancer had increased in both sexes; this was recorded. Remember, Mr. Soto also said that the data on the cancer in the gym is very disturbing... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... and this is also said by Mr. Soso, that the data of the cancer we have in the gym is extremely disturbing, and that the average mortality exceeds 25 of the most common species of cancer in the 18ths, and 25 in 16ths. According to the latest data in the National Center attached to the Charles III Medical Institute. These are data, raw data. To have all these data in mind and to be clearly seen is important in this discussion, because all our plans, purposes, and means are indispensable to the improvement of the situation. Because in patients, thinking of the patient, thinking of the people for their own best. That's what we need. And even while I say this, it comes to my mind long ago that we see in social networks so many tweets that have suffered cancer or people who are suffering, that they tell their experiences. And I want to remind you of one of these experiences, in which he explained the experience of one of his relatives, who had been trained in the Onkological time, and all the evidence, all the attention from beginning to end, was given to him in the Onkological. And now his case, where there's a thing in the hospital, a biopsia in another place, an operation on the Onkological chemotherapy, the resonance of the Vine Donosteans, the amalis in the ambula. In other words, people who are found in a very vulnerable situation are overwhelmed from one side to the other, and are always waiting for the telephone. And that's the type of treatment we want for cancer? Is that integrated attention? Is that thinking about the patient? That's what we have to think about today. Can't we bet on a monographic center? We got a choice. And that should be our example. You get it on paper, but then you see it's not like that in reality. And what we should have done is the infrastructure, the professionals, the organization model for the patient, and not the patient adapt to the model of organisation, the understatements, and the professionals. Here, the target is to be a patient. And that's important. And today's discussion is at stake. And what we want to ask is that it's enough to let the subject rot. That's enough. Membership requires the Onkological, and the Onkological requires membership. And the patient needs his partner and the Onkological. And it's a big deal. And he needs attention from quality, from prevention to end in palaetives, and everything that will be considered as the whole process that will be protected at the most vulnerable moment of his life. So we can't put aside a center like the Onkological, underestimate the professionals, defamate everything, everything and more. And what we don't understand is what's the problem as a member of the Osade, when it's financed almost 100% from the Medical Department, when the Department of Health manages the Osar. He makes decisions as far as Onkological, when he's already started with clinical integration, when most of the figures are on board for Osa. What's the problem for once just to take a step and get a complete integration. To leave Euphemism and the other stories and do what has to be done for once. What's the problem? What's the problem? Besides, he's been in charge of the Home Office for integration with Berado Osa, he's been lent to him for that. Besides, we have that too. Come on, let's do it. Look, in 2022, as far as the agreement is concerned, we're in the year of the prorogue, we're in the year of the prom. As a rule, we must evaluate and consider the agreement in order to improve it. In 2021, I don't know how many months after that, when it was completed, we asked for a settlement to operate and study the evaluation of the Oneccological agreement, and the perfections of which we had here, Mrs. Beradodo and Appleui, we were mentioned again in this re-ferring, 127/201818, Decrectua −ce, is based on this decree, that the decree should change, and that some improvements should be introduced. Later on, we asked some written questions and we were told or answered that it was unnecessary to change the decree. Well, what we see is that it's a bit of a problem. We see the distance. And this has also been seen with the works of surgical blocks in the Bidaso hospital. During this period of time, while these works were being performed, an activity was to be carried to the Onkological. And it was there that it seemed like the Onkological was going to be used at the moment's settlements to supply the needs of the Oscars. And we need the Onkological to have a actually monographic character infrastructure instead of a crucible place. The point is, this 2022 year is a very harpsichord. It's clavage for the Onkological. It's a harpsichord. And the slave is to the people who suffer cancer, who have suffered and have suffered it; for here no one is safe, and we all know how hard these proceedings are. So we can't have the intermediates we've put aside. And in this sense, what we want to ask is to think about patients, to put all the means of fulfilling the Onkology plan, and actually take advantage of 2022. You're here to tell us, to share with them, to share with them, to give their steps, to examine. Now's the time. Now's the time for that. And at other times, just as Osacinant has done with other hospitals, to complete integration with Onkological, to make a step, and make use of the figures that are there for that purpose. It's time for the big one, not the small one, the big one... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... To take a step, to take advantage of the figures that are there. It's time to play big and not small, but it's time to play big in this season of year. More than ever, because we need all the infrastructure, all the professionals, all the resources and especially our gaze on the patient, the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u75	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. The Basque Socialists have always shown our support and recognition for Onkologikoa as a centre of reference for cancer both in Euskadi and in the rest of Spain in terms of both oncology treatments and in the field of research. Today Onkologikoa remains a tip of Basque health. As has been said in July 2018 in the Department of Health the integration of Onkologikoa in Osakidetza was announced, materializing this decision in Decree 127/2018, of 4 September, and more explicitly, in the bond agreement signed on 27 December 2018 between the Department of Health and the Onkologikoa Foundation, which today is in extension pending the new bond agreement, which we will then discuss. The Basque socialists have always positively valued Onkologikoa's process of linking to the public network of Osakidetza, because we understand that it is for the benefit of citizens to allow the functional integration of oncological activity within our public network. And, in this sense, we have been in favour of such integration both in the Basque Parliament and in Kutxa, in the Town Hall of Donostia-San Sebastián or in the General Councils of Gipuzkoa. I think we will all agree that the improvement of oncology services and their reinforcement in Gipuzkoa should go through functional integration between Oncological and Osakidetza's health network. And in this sense, the bonding agreement represented an important step forward in joint oncological care in Gipuzkoa, which today is a unified and powerful attention to the service of Gipuzcoan citizenship, mainly. Major investments have been made in works carried out in the internal structure of the centre to adapt and install human resources from the Donostia University Hospital, and the same is true of the material endowment, which is also important, to continue to provide the centre with the necessary apparatus. And now what, for now we have to work on a new binding agreement in the coming months. And for that, you have to see what has worked and that you have to improve. And that's the stage we're in. And knowing that the agreement must be negotiated and signed between two entities such as Kutxa Fundazioa and Osakidetza, the Basque Socialists seem important to us to point out the parameters in which it must move. In this regard, as Mr Soto said, we had offered the proposing group a compromise agreement in which we endorsed Resolution 40/2021 of the Gipuzkoa General Councils on the concerns raised about Onkologikoa, and we also indicated to the Department of Health that the priority criterion of the content of the new binding agreement is the best care for citizens and their health care, taking into account the positive synergies provided to that end by the Osakidetza and Oncology team of professionals, as well as users. Regretting that this proposal has not finally been accepted, today the Basque Socialists want to use it to make a public political pronouncement for the future of Onkologikoa, so that the Basque Government will continue the process of integrating Oncology until the completion of the full integration of health care, coordinating and complementing with the Donostia Hospital and also with the rest of the Basque Health Network, in order to be able to take advantage of the best potentials of each health resource, and offer services of the highest quality. And all this, with dialogue, adding the synergies that professionals and users can bring so that the new bond agreement between Onkologikoa and Osakidetza complies with the fundamental principle of providing better health care and care to citizens. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u76	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u77	Good morning. Chief of Parliament, thank you. Chief physician. Good morning, congressmen. Well, with this initiation, I have to say that I'm a guitar. So I'm very interested in this matter and we have it. As a citizen, the Onkological was a reformer. At hard times, we've had the guitars at hand and we have this resource. It has given us rest for years, it has given us security, it has been a sign of quality and excellence. And we want to keep going like this, we want to keep going. That would explain the emotional relationship we've had with all the guitars. It's a long-distance funcological career, back in 90 years. And we have known them all: the name has changed, the residence has changed, the financial sources have changed, the management system has also changed them. The ideal has always made an effort to face social needs and cancer to adapt innovations. And in all this it lengths an image of quality, and has known how to deal with cancer disease and to defeat the challenge. In the initiation itself, I do not share the various specifications which appear in the presentation, or the stage. Therefore I must give some explanations in some way to prolong our point of view. We've known Onkological as health resource. He's been rooted on the health network and based on society. In short, he's been dealing with cancer treatment, his activities in excellence... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and it was founded on society itself. In short, he has treated the treatment of cancer, and his activity has dealt with excellence, diagnosis, treatment, reforming techniques, and research. And the work you've done is remarkable. So that's all we have. We can make sure it's a property for the gym, it's a property, and we're all obliged to try to continue it, and the Health Department knows it. We've left the complicated years of funding, the fear of privatization, the state of the institution, and we've taken the road to a few new realitys. I said innovation and adaptations, but that doesn't mean the Oncological has lost the character of particular property, and it doesn't mean that he has either not or hasn't. There have been strong steps to improve the health service for society. Strong steps, we all know and they're visible, and the Oncological is the center of our reference in the treatment of cancer. A strong step to strengthen attachment has been given to secure the planillas, to fill the empty squares, to modify the installations. The center of the reference, invested and guarded in it, invested and guarded by steps, but not stopped, and always went forward. The Basque Parliament, and consequently, the Basque Government has always especially valued the experience of the Onkologikoa Centre and its professionals. This conviction has prompted an agreement at every moment in society that the Government has sought ways to link with Onkologikoa, different ways in different years, to create links between Onkologiko and the public network. And at the moment he is working for the integration of this health resource that brings great added value to the Public Health System. Sufficient limbs have been established for this journey to materialize with serenity, with safety and without loss, without loss in the quality of Onkologikoa's care. Eunerate patriot made a firm bet on this in his election program. A strong bet and full of conviction, of course. Also, as it could not otherwise be, this key was introduced into the Government agenda. Health is guaranteed. It is the first guiding principle of the 2024 government programme. The second axis is people, in this case the sick. And, of course, consolidate and strengthen public health services. In the Oncological Plan, the department especially meant Onkologikoa and made an express reference to advance the development of functional integration, and to ensure that the functional integration model is overcome and a clinical management of the process is achieved. These were the limbs that made it possible in 2018 to reach a binding agreement. A binding agreement that pushed the department for three years, three long years, which is bearing fruit, of course, which has proved to be effective, possible, ambitious and exciting for all those who have worked on it. Eight months ago, the Medical Department and Dr. Berry came to the Medical Committee as they always do. And they rated the contract of attachment. It's not time to repeat this scene, it's fine. But the administrative integration that was explained to us is the centre held in the form of a member of the Onkological centre, the nu se leleca a una undad de gestion cinic. The economic integration is also given, and it works with the public parameters at the moment. In the Invest section, they explained to us, here we heard they didn't do it. It's not true, it's not true. And as each one of them came forward, each one of them brought up the signatures of this agreement. And in Onkologically, a new TAC has been purchased, computer programs have been developed, pharmaceuticals have been developed, and it has not disappeared, either less or less. It's in the hospital Donostian, and it's shared because it's an integrated unit. And in his attachment to his personal, he explained for a long time. Still indicate that the process is not easy, that it is not easy, that traumatic formulas have not been sought. And I remember, at the moment when Mr. Hernandez agreed. You know, it's like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, They mentioned several elements of improvement in the appearance, and I believe that in the course of this treaty these elements were to be received and improved. Since this objective is still in force, since the linkage agreement is in progress, since the road has many successful experiences, and since the Department of Health itself has identified elements of improvement, we urge again in our amendment, we call once again on the Basque Government to repeat and improve the formula designed in the 18th. We thought we had a practically closed pact with Elkarrekin We could add value to listening initiatives, but unfortunately, Elkarrekin did not want to take advantage of this opportunity, he did not dare to delve a little deeper into the path taken in the 18th, to delve into a valid option, a valid option that surely gave its fruits, and that it was worth exploring, he did not dare. This remains in Elkarrekin's due We can, no doubt. We firmly believe that the path must continue, and therefore urge the Government to shape it, and to continue along the path that began with Onkologikoa. It will continue to be a reference in Oncology, with the strength that the Basque Public Health System offers: transition this, by the way, that for many years has been requested by agents and actors who at other times asked us to make the transition, and now it seems that it has been forgotten... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... years has been requested by agents and actors who at other times asked us to make the transition, and now it seems that it has been forgotten. This is going to be our proposal, I hope that the groups that have not amended, well, are satisfied with the proposal and vote in favour, and vote in favour. However, I still don't understand why Elkarrekin We may not have dared. And how is it possible that Mrs Ubera starts from an integration agreement, and comes to a compromise amendment with Podemos, which is in line with a binding agreement which, for several occasions in various committees, has told us that it does not produce results? I don't understand. Well, it must be that I have some principles, but I can change them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u79	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mrs. Lete, I don't know whether some of them change their principles or not, but I assure you that we do not change our principles so easily on behalf of the Pontarian Party and Ciudadans in this case. And in this case, our consistency on this subject, on the subject of theological question, we keep it and hope to keep it in the future. Well, as has been said here, I'm going to be very serious... very brief, because I believe that this is an issue that we have dealt with on many occasions in this Parliament. And the positions and differences, and also the points of agreement are clear. As has been said here, Onkologikoa is a reference, reference, rather, in everything that has to do with prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and cancer research. It is true that two structures or two infrastructures dedicated to the treatment of cancer have actually coexisted and coexisted. And we, in 2018, when a binding agreement was proposed for the possible integration of the two health infrastructures, and collaboration... rather than harnessing synergies and establishing greater coordination, we support it. Then I was as a counselor, Mr. Darpón. Beyond the problems that may have existed over these three years of this agreement, we are now in the year of extension, we do bet on this formula. We do not agree with the position on this subject, held especially by Bildu, to which it seems later to have been added more We can talk about an integration of staff, of change of ownership. We believe that at this stage it is a table of participation, because I believe that these issues have already been dealt with before, there has already been dialogue, there has already been decision-making. And in that sense, well, we are not going to vote for the compromise amendment because it does not coincide with the fundamental premises that are held in it. And we will support and I will point out to you the spokesman for the PNV of your compromise amendment. I think it is in line with what we have also advocated on this issue. And that is, to hope that the agreement between the two entities, the Kutxa and the Department of Health, can be approved or signed as soon as possible. And that it be an agreement that meets and responds to the needs that in this particular area of health - which is not less, in the field of cancer - have the patients of Gipuzcoans and the whole of the Basque patients. Besterik gabe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. It's the answer time. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u81	Thank you, Madam President. For starters. Mr. Rich, I agree with almost everything you've said. That is to say, our parliamentary group does indeed add the spirit of linkage as the first step in integration. Because Mr. Rico has also used the term integration. And I understand that when it comes to that, although it makes it clear, I understand that it concerns full integration, as well as ownership and employees. And if it is not, if it is not, (...) functional, if it is not, there is mating. In any case we, in any case our parliamentary group, have been consistent in terms of the fact that the pre-binding process is necessary, but to culminate in a full integration of the service. And I believe that the question, as I said in my first speech that prevented an agreement, is basically the setting up of a table. But not so much because our parliamentary group has a certain fetishism with the setting up of tables for the participation of workers, and in this case users and patients, but that it would have sufficed for us with any form of participation that was not simple and simply taking into account the goodness, the goodness of the work carried out by the workers in the framework of their action in the oncology. Of course, that's so ethereal and so discretionary, that one at the end there does not draw any kind of participatory process. In the wording, in this case, yes, because the transactional was so, in the wording in this period of extension of a new binding convention, in which, precisely to promote such integration, forgiveness, to promote that transactional, we avoided the part of total integration. Sure, but our ultimate goal is that. But I understand that for a transactional, we were trying to lower, say, that claim. But in any case, the crux of the issue and the basis on which we have finally reached an agreement has been, because of this lack of... because of this unwillingness to establish a mechanism - which does not necessarily have to be a table, which I also said in that framework of talks - but basically there is a minimally guaranteed mechanism regarding the participation in the drafting process of the new agreement on the binding of Onkologiko workers, as well as users and patients. And there Mr Rico mentioned that the position of the Socialist parliamentary group with participation and dialogue with the actors involved. Well, I totally agree. Well... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... has mentioned, that the position of the Socialist parliamentary group is with participation and dialogue with the actors involved. Well, I totally agree. Good. Once the transactional has not been possible because that mechanism of participation has not been interesting to fix it or to establish it in the transactional, obviously already, we propose a text that goes beyond. Because the transactional with EH Bildu allows us to go further, which is posing total integration. I'm saying that to clarify that first part. It seems to us, sincerely, that to avoid that there have been problems and failures in the process of linking these last years of the Oncological, then, I will not say that it is to deceive - because I do not intend to say such a thing - but I do believe that it is to omit a part of the reality, I think that in an interesting way, because if we were not to speak at this time of the demands that make users and patients of the service, in the same way as the workers of the Oncological themselves, unless you want to raise at this time and in this forum that there are interests, hidden interests on the part of the committee of workers of the Oncological in relation to this matter. I believe that, indeed, there is a need for participation on your part to improve quality and that the binding agreement is another, and better, because what has been shown in recent years is that the process has failed. He's had failures. And there have been services that have ceased to be provided. And there have been other services in other medical facilities in the territory that have been transferred to the Oncological, basically, to feed the Oncological, and so that this under-staffing of services, to the extent that certain services that were provided until 2018 have been closed, would be covered by services that were not provided in other regions. As Mrs Ubera has pointed out, one of the approaches was the transfer of surgical services from the Hospital del Bidasoa to the Oncology, when above it did not even meet the conditions to be able to provide that service. And that, why was it done? For, basically, to try to equip the Oncological with a service that was no longer provided in another region, and to feed it. But our approach is that it must be a monographic service, exclusively to relieve cancer, and not include in it so many other services that are no longer being provided in other regions. But in any case, I'm telling you. I, thank you for the will to agree, for the dialogue, believe that it was basically the element that prevented the transactional, that it was the real participation of the workers of the Oncological in the process of new bonding that opens. Well, then, another time I guess it'll be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u82	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u83	I'm out of my mind. Mr. Rico, I miss Blanca Roncal. We did a lot of work with Mrs. Roncal about the Onkological publication, but, well, it's been years since the Socialist Party put that job aside and refused it, right? And today, Mr. Rico, your secretary, your secretary, your lord Aundezana who is next to you, you have contradicted and refuted him from the recent statement he made. Today, you, the Socialist Party, have consumed the responsibility of this government in the absence of public health, have you consumed the responsibility of diminution and privatisation, of contradicting the expressions of your general secretary, and (refuses it not? .). Look, Mrs. Lete, if it's the Gimpian property, the Onkological is − to fix such qualified things, how is it possible that what's happened in recent years is possible in the Onkological? How is it possible? Infracted, but little used, professionals out of activity... What happened last year at the Onkological? Is that efficient? Is that efficiency? Look, I've been asking for a visit to the Medical Committee years ago to go up to the Onkological Committee and see it. He's still not ready for a visit, and you're the president of the Medical Committee. If you want, you can activate that visit, we can go to the Onkological, and from there we can see what reality is. We could do that. The equipment is focused, and we'll see what's going on with the Onkological. Because, well, what's happened in the past few years is remarkable. Because it's not true that he used to have activity, he seems first to be paying attention. That's not true. And that has nothing to do with the integration that has been made, with the agreement it has made. I remember Mr. Darpón calling us before the decree of vision came out, and we were together with him. We told him: "Look, we certainly appreciate the step you're going to give me." And in public, by means of which we said: we certainly rented it. For this instrument, if it is a political will, is useful. It's useful to give you access to the publication you have to provide. If there's no will, no will. So we haven't changed our principles today. But, you know, everyone will see if the principle changes or not, but we've continued to be the same. And what we have said is, and it is written, that in 2022, what we asked for in our repentance is one, on the one hand, that this agreement, which is now to be evaluated and studied with the workers, should be studied together with those who are involved in it, and that they should go round and agree with them, and that they should use this union, the whole integration of the whole, organic, equity, change, building, and all that. It's true, it's true, that it's taken a step, because it was up to now on the Onkological side, a contract made, the medical department finally hired and contacted the services. And with this attachment, the figure changed by this agreement, and the member is already in the contract program. And that's a quantum step. And I'm telling you, there's been a few quantum steps, but that's where we're out of business. And it was the worst thing to do besides deceivating him, his monographic character has been removed from him, and that's what worries us. That's why I insist on thinking about patients in the first round, because I've given the data. I've given data in the Onkology Plan. I've given the data in Osarides and Biocruces' report. I've given data, as Charles III says. Because we have a problem. [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... The ones on the planet received by Onkology. I've given the data in Osarides and Biocruces' report. I've given data, as Charles III says. Because we have a problem, and we have a problem, and we need means to answer it. And we need the ecological, the infrastructure and his professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ubera, I'm going to confess that I've been debating with myself for a while if I ignored you and focused on what Mr Soto said, who at least made contributions and didn't put the (?)ventilator here or not. But, well, you've won that no, that's no more than... what you said. And, well, I have to tell you. I believe that if you have felt raped, because at the previous point I have offered you data that have spoiled your speech, because to come down here now to say what, because I really did not understand you, and I have done a survey to see if anyone had understood what had been said more than you, and no one has understood anything, which does not usually happen, by the way, with some of your interventions, does not usually happen. And no one has understood anything, no one has understood anything he has said. I have managed to understand that you were talking about a change of position, so inconclusive, that is what Mrs Eva Blanco said on February 22, 2018 in this very atril, she has not said anything else that she did not say before in 2018 Mrs Eva Blanco, but to blame me, that I have not even spoken of Onkologikoa in this House, more than on this occasion the first time. There was an appearance, yes, of the workers in the commission, where I also intervened, but this is the first time I speak of Onkologikoa. I think it's good that the holidays come, because it will help us all to get a little bit in order because our ideas. Having said that, I am going to focus on what Mr Soto has said, and I also appreciate that attempt at dialogue that we have made. I believe that what has failed, to speak clearly, is that this had been discussed before at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, and we are all imprisoned for what our colleagues have also raised at the Gipuzkoa General Councils. And it's logical, it's called coherence, that is, let's talk clear, bread, bread, and wine, wine. If there is no problem, because, in fact, I understand that what your colleagues stand for at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, you share it, and what my colleagues stand for at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, for I share it. No big deal. But, of course, in this debate, to put here the problem is that if we talk to the workers or the patients at a table, creating a table, or doing it on a stool, by setting an example, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter if... to see, what we can't do is to deceive people, because going out here to say – as they say – that we are going to create a table, it hasn't been said here, but that's what is written in the compromise amendment: "We're going to create a table to draft a new agreement". If it's not true, if they know it can't be. It is that the agreement is drafted by the Kutxa Foundation and the agreement is drafted by the other party Osakidetza. So, of course, the paper holds everything. I could also say that it would be Mary Poppins who drafted the convention, but no, you know that it is that the convention was drafted by the Kutxa Foundation, and it was written by Osakidetza. Of course, the position of EH Bildu, who wants to create a table for everything, is very funny to me. When you were at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, you didn't create any table for nothing, no table, no table. When anyone comes out of the institutions, we put him at a table to make a decision, know or don't know about it, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. This is to try to make dough and see if you make a little ball, shut up and get out in a show. Man, no, no. We tell you from one of the groups in the Basque Government, and also coincident with what Mrs Lete, the other group in the Basque Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, has said, of course, that the opinion of the workers and the opinion of the people is absolutely necessary. And no, Mrs. Ubera, it's not all right. It's just, it's just that I don't even think you hear what we're here to say. I told him that the first thing we have to do is see what worked and what didn't work, and that's what I said literally, I reviewed it, I said literally, what worked and what didn't, because it's true that there are things that have been complicated, of course. Well, yes... , to help a little bit we passed a pandemic, which well, because it puts salseo to the matter, of course, of course, because there are also problems derived from it. You put it on the table. There have been problems with the issues of... Of course we did; in fact, in our electoral programme we said that one of the things we had to recover was precisely those cancer treatments that in many cases along a pandemic, although they have been priorities, because they have not been possible. And then I do have to tell you one thing: one thing is to bring data, which I think is fundamental, I say before, but of course, to make certain interpretations to me seems a little dangerous to say that the cancer disease data in Gipuzkoa reveal a mortality rate that does not correspond to the presence of a pointer center like Onkologikoa; that is, to put that data, which is true that the cancer incidence data in Gipuzkoa are high, to want to tell you that in Onkologikoa things are not being done well, it seems to me that there is a scientific logic missing in an overwhelming way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u86	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u87	Eskerrik asko, scream. Well, I think reality is clumsy. And in this matter it is shown day by day that it is clumsy and that the achievements of the convention are also evidenced day by day. The doctor said to us: "The health of the covenant of destruction is good. Hinting is not easy. The decisions are always difficult." That's what he told us. And besides this he mentioned several points of improvement. But it is evident that the formula of the binding agreement was a good formula that has ensured to continue with an integral and unique oncological care service for Gipuzkoa and Euskadi, where two centers... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... continue with an integral and unique oncological care service for Gipuzkoa and Euskadi, where two reference centers unite. A public system of oncology care is being established, strengthened by the experience of professionals and professionals from both centers, in which it is committed to a replacement for vegetative casualties, not traumatic as we were told earlier and as time is demonstrating. As a result, for example, OSI Donosti now has a nuclear doctor for the first time. And I'm sure it'll be an appeal to those MIRs we talked about earlier. I'm sure an integrated and unique center in Gipuzkoa is an appeal to those MIRs or other professionals from other centers. The ghosts of privatization have been driven away. An unstoppable path towards integration into the public network has been undertaken. A proactive investment attitude has been adopted. Pro-active in investments. In investments in infrastructure, in investments in medical equipment, in investments in computer equipment. This is why we have oncological Osabide and Onkobide, which are two platforms that allow Onkologikoa professionals and the rest of the professionals to access the files of the patients, of the patients. Which didn't happen before. This is laying the foundations and investing in the foundations. And it's still planned. And investments are still being planned to improve what we need to improve, which were already recognized by the experts themselves in the area that needed to be improved. But the best way to explain and explain the good health of the convention is the data, which Mrs Ubera referred to. And activity data is good. They're good. The first consultation activity has multiplied by three. And successive consultations on oncology have multiplied exponentially. We've gone from 10,000 to 50,000. There are oncology activities in OSI Donostia and oncology activities are done in Oncology. So, well, anyway... This also reflects that the convention is working. That is why we have urged the Government to redraft a new convention sooner rather than later, reflecting those aspects of improvement, where work is continued and where the objectives are - now and always - to seek and give the best attention to citizens. And let us not forget that for this - and we remember it to the department, although surely it shares it. That should take advantage of the synergies of the professionals at both centres. Which doesn't mean we have to create a table for it. Obviously, as the representative of the Socialist Party has already explained to us. We know that this plan and this purpose share the Medical Department, but we wanted it to be a solid goal. To be made strong in our repentance and so on. They're patients who are in our minds in order and they're important. There is no doubt about it, there is no doubt about it. And besides that, planning, ownership, procedures... All this will be done, but around patients. And that's in order. Of course, I have not done this here before, Mr Soto, but, well, I appreciate the cooperation, the attempt to reach an agreement. But I must say that you have lacked ambition, illusion, daring and that you have preferred to guard yourself in a comfort zone. Don't step too far. Do not bet on proposals that can cause you a problem and have thus avoided a solution that we like; we are deluded by the Gipuzcoans and, above all, benefit us in terms of integrated oncological health care. And that was the objective of the convention, of work, of integration and of our proposals today. As far as EH Bildu is concerned, the truth is that I don't understand how to move to a binding agreement so easily. And as her partner said this morning, they're proposing honek ezer gutxi eskaintzen du. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. Representatives of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. [[Pause]] End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer and EH Collection corrections that have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 26; the opponents, 48; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u89	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the whole corrections of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 26; the abstations are 1. white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u90	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. I interrupt the whole company until quarter to four. The meeting stopped at two o'clock in the afternoon and ten. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at forty-six o'clock, the meeting began again. [[Begin of tape 44.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u91	Good afternoon. We'll go back to the entire Union.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u92	Its sole objective is to improve the conditions of public employees by providing them with systems that enable them to know things as basic as what exactly is expected of them, that enable them to improve their levels of job satisfaction, and that help them to do their job better. I guess we all agree that the 153,000 civil servants and public employees we have in Euskadi – that includes also those who are not autonomous – carry out fundamental social work. In this we agree, right?, because they ensure the provision of basic services and the functioning of the entire administrative and institutional framework. Many of them are those who during the pandemic, for example, have stood at the foot of the canyon by giving a real example, ensuring health, safety, education, etc. Moments of extraordinary delivery, competence, professionalism and flexibility. And they have sometimes put public service ahead, even of their own health. All of them must be used to reiterate from here our gratitude and our applause. But we must do more than applaud them. They deserve us to worry in this House about their problems, their needs and their concerns, to listen to them and to spend time and money on improving their working conditions. And we know that many of them, especially if you live close to them, we know that many of them are strongly unmotivated, that their level of job satisfaction is very low, that some of them find it very difficult to come to work every day, because what they find is routine, uninteresting work, defencelessness, unhealthy work environments, and sometimes no incentive to develop professionally. Many of them take refuge in the economic security that provides such a job, and have to pull out of the vocation of service to the citizen and of professionalism to overcome a day-to-day difficult and without incentives. But, being realistic, we must also recognize that some of them, no doubt a minority, after a few years of surviving in a labour system without incentives, decide to adjust to make the least effort, and to use all the advantages that the system allows them to live as best as possible. There are many examples that I'm sure you all know, but the case that came to light in the year 2016 of the official of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation – some will remember it – comes to my mind, that in his working hours and with the resources of the institution he was dedicated to a private business, which originated that it was, curiously, the first file that ended up being fired at that institution, which has a few years of history. This is an isolated case, because the majority of public officials and employees perform exemplaryly with their role responsibly and effectively, and succeed in overcoming a demotivating and overly bureaucratic system. But we must not settle. These isolated cases discredit officials, and on many occasions, they have a perverse side effect, and it is that they create overloads for the rest of the comrades, to whom we also have an obligation to help. Our public employees deserve a much higher quality system, they deserve a motivating management system with a good organization, with reasonable procedures, with a good incentive system, with a professional itinerary that allows them to promote, with a good training system, etc. During many years of my professional life I have devoted myself to forming management teams in the Administration and to thoroughly analysing this issue, and although there are several causes that I believe cause this situation there is one that has a fundamental impact: the management mechanisms of officials are underdeveloped, or are, in some cases, totally non-existent. And I am not referring to the mechanisms of political leadership, which there is much to talk about, I am referring to the intermediate commanders who direct the work of public officials and employees, and who are responsible for sharing tasks, organizing teams, defining procedures, taking care of the climate of the teams and directing each person. The vast majority of these intermediate commands have not been qualified to do this particular leadership task. Some directly don't, and others use leadership styles that range from the most aggressive authoritarianism to the most blatant demise style. Therefore, I propose that we take this situation seriously, pay the attention that our public officials and employees deserve, and to this end, I propose in this initiative... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... to take this situation seriously, to pay the attention that our public officials and employees deserve. To this end, I propose six very specific measures in this initiative. The first is to assess the workload of all jobs in the different departments and public enterprises, in order to identify the changes needed to adjust them to the current real needs, taking into account, inter alia, the current and pending digitization processes. As I said before, we have 153,000 public employees in Euskadi, almost 10% more than seven years ago, by the way. And this costs taxpayers a real million dollars. What we are asking is not to continue to increase this figure in a populist manner, but to make a zero-based assessment and to clearly determine the actual workload of each job and, consequently, the number of jobs that are really needed today. Digitization processes should reduce that number substantially, rather than increase, which is what is happening; they are increasing more and more every day. And yet we have overburdened public employees, work centers with shortage of professionals, as happens in Osakidetza - we have seen this morning - and, at the same time, we have public employees at other idle sites and oversized work centers. A whole mix. Of the constellation of absolutely non-dispensable chiringuites that have as their sole objective to feed the large clientele of the PNV, on this occasion, we will not talk. Because that deserves special attention for another day. Each department should carry out a rigorous analysis of the actual and current workload of each post, and should determine the necessary resources to date, with a criterion for optimizing public spending. Structure decrees are almost all old or very old, and the workloads of the jobs are not up to date. Secondly, we propose updating job descriptions with an up-to-date methodology that includes job issuance, areas of responsibility, objective performance indicators, and job evidence systems, so that all civil servants and all public employees have accurate information about what is expected of them at their job. The job description systems that are being used today are obsolete in their methodology and content, do not help the employee to identify priorities, nor do they include objective indicators of minimum performance, are rigid, are continuously overtaken by real demand and changes in the environment, and do not allow a public employee to know whether he is doing his job well or not. With this, it remains at the dawn of the subjective evaluation that your manager wants to do of his work. Thirdly, we propose to design a system for evaluating the performance and feedback of public officials and employees of the Basque Administration, with digital support, of course, already today, based on the above descriptions. Because public employees have the right to have their performance assessed objectively and professionally, and they also have the right to know - clearly and without caps - what their bosses think about their performance, so that they can have relevant information to change their priorities or efforts. Fourthly, we propose to put in place a training plan for all managers and mid-term managers with management responsibilities for the proper use of the system. We cannot ask a public employee to assume the responsibility of directing a team and not to give it the training or the tools necessary to do so. Driving people is the most difficult job in the world, and if not done properly, it becomes a nightmare for the command itself and, above all, for the members of that team, while a well-directed team optimizes performance while increasing the level of satisfaction and motivation of its members. The fifth piece of this system is to design and implement an annual implementation plan for the performance evaluation and feedback system in all Basque departments, agencies and public enterprises. Because if we just design an evaluation system but then it doesn't apply, it's the same as if we didn't have it. It's much worse, I'd say, because everyone learns that it doesn't have a relevance and that it can be passed on. And in sixth and last place, we propose to design and implement a system of consequences based on poor performance and excellent performance obtained by the evaluated, in order to recognize the effort, professionalism and involvement of those public officials and employees who perform their job excellently. Because our public officials and employees deserve to be recognized when they do excellent work, and at present the system does not even have the means to know the excesses that many of them voluntarily do to be able to meet public needs or the needs of citizens. It was very evident in the pandemic. Citizens applauded certain officials who had seen the personal excess they were making. But this is happening, it's still happening, it's still happening every day and in every department. We are proposing six very specific measures, which are integrated and form a system with very clear objectives, which is to restore the management function properly in the administration, to implement a modern system of management of persons for middle management and to provide public employees and civil servants with a system of labour management that takes account of their expectations, that ensures recognition of extraordinary efforts, that corrects poor performance levels and that encourages professional growth. And the groups have responded to this initiative with two very interesting amendments. The groups that support the Government - who are responsible for the current situation after 40 years of governing Euskadi - are proposing generically, on the one hand, to implement public employment planning instruments, which we have to say is yes, that is good, that is not bad, but that we were talking about something else. And secondly - oh, miracle - they accept part of our proposal and urge the Basque Government to finally put in place a performance evaluation system after years and years that I know they have had the proposal on the table. In the end, it took an initiative like this to unravel the matter, but it was finally committed to it, and I welcome it. Your amendment does not say which system or how or for what, but something is something. And I only hope that on this occasion they will comply with what they have proposed. Of course... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... Your amendment does not say what system, how, or for what, but something is something. And I only hope that on this occasion they will comply with what they have proposed. Of course, we will vote with both hands on your amendment. And we offer our collaboration for the development of the system, to the extent that it can be useful. On the amendment tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos, I must say that I have had to read it several times to make sure that I was not wrong about the text, because the points it includes I believe have nothing to do with the proposal put forward. It makes a general defence of employees and public services, and asks - as always - for trade union intervention and negotiation in everything; the said, the usual, and nothing to do with the proposal presented. A shot by elevation, which in this case has not given to the target, nor by far. The initiative that I am bringing here today is very concrete: it proposes to modernise the administration, with a performance evaluation system that should have been in place for years, as is already the case in other modern European public administrations. This will allow for greater professionalisation, improved quality of service and a higher level of job satisfaction and motivation of public employees. They deserve to be managed and managed professionally, and it is the responsibility of the Basque Government to meet their needs and improve the quality of service to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u94	Similarly, Mr Gil Vegas, just the same, I say, just the same, so you have a problem of reading comprehension when you deal with the amendments that this Member has, of course, done with his utmost goodwill when he read his initiative, which is an initiative that I think I will not be wrong when I say - and we will listen to the other groups - that has dislocated all the parliamentary groups in this House. On the other hand, it seems to you that he is saying things that have nothing to do with the initiative: it seems to be my amendment, because he talks about negotiating with the unions, when you yourself came out here to present your initiative saying that your only objective, the only objective of your initiative is to improve the conditions of the officials. How can it be that the only objective of your initiative is to improve the conditions of the officials, and you put in front of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group that we make an initiative that talks about the need to negotiate with the unions? Can we talk about the working conditions of civil servants without even mentioning the negotiation with trade unions? That is the view of the People's Party-Citizens of the role that public workers must play. And that comes to reinforce - a little - the idea that we have of what was the real goal of his initiative. An initiative whose pro-active elements, the operative part, there are elements that we could talk about if they are exactly what they are. There are others who do not, which we think we do not agree; there are some who do. But we understood, and above all we understand the justification that you make, and today with your speech comes to corroborate that feeling that I had when I read that justification, that its objectives are others and that initiative and justification is, of course, an unfair criticism of the officials of this country. It is true that today it has come to say that all of them do an excellent job, and then say that a minority - therefore, not all of them anymore - do not do an excellent job. And you have set a concrete example, a concrete example, of an official who has not done a good job, more than not doing a good job in that case, and you yourself have acknowledged that this is an isolated case. You said it: isolated case. In its justification it talks about low performance levels, poor performance, lack of motivation and below-necessary performance levels. And he adds that this is a huge cost to the public arks. In our view this reinforces, it reinforces a negative idea of the work of officials. It goes further in a speech that from time to time is potentiated, especially by the right, against public workers and workers, especially when attempts have been made and when cuts have been made to the conditions of public officials and civil servants; we saw it very blatantly in the previous economic crisis. And well, I think it is something consistent with the policies defended by the People's and Citizens' Party. That is why we do not like your proposal, although some operative elements we could talk about them, and concretely, negotiate them. But such an issue cannot be realized by obviating the central role that negotiation with the civil service unions must play, which you believe you have today despised when you have appreciated the amendment we have made. We, with the Government's amendment, with the groups that support the Government - with whom we have tried to negotiate, we have not reached an agreement - have no special problem, but we think that they refer exclusively to the public employment law, it is true that these issues are being addressed in the process of the public employment law, which I believe has left all the groups out of place on the initiative, but the groups that support the Government know our position at the moment, contrary to that public employment law. For a fundamental reason - we have also discussed this - precisely because of the lack of negotiation and agreement with the trade unions on this matter. In a matter where that seems fundamental to us. And, therefore, we do not share the amendment they have tabled either. We think that the objectives of the People's Party today were no more than to make a proposal that they could present as novel on issues that it is true that we have to... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... People's Party today was nothing more than making a proposal that could present as novel on issues that it is true that we have to develop but that are already in the laws, that are also in the EBEP, and pose a system that we cannot share and, less, as I say, without agreement with the unions, a kind of reward-punishment system for the officials, as if they were children of stick and carrot. We therefore do not share the initiative, we have made an amendment and we will defend it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u96	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, lehendakari. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Get out of the way. Well, the People's Party-Citizens brings this initiative to the attention of this House, which the first thing I have to say is that, in fact, it has a suggestive title, but the truth is that it also has an unfortunate wording and I believe it was intended in its justifiable part. One justification in which to state one thing and the other, what comes to say is that there are people - public employees and employees - who do not do their job well and who, moreover, are covered by the Staff Regulations - which is "not to bear the negative consequences of their poor performance". And I also quote it textually. And the first thing to say is that this is neither correct nor true, because, as everyone knows, the Basque Public Service Act itself, which is in force to this day, expressly contains a perfectly assessed disciplinary regime, in which, depending on the gravity of the faults, sanctions are provided for ranging from the alerting to the definitive separation of the service, through the suspension of functions. But that said, and now, if this initiative is to promote the establishment of systems to assess, measure and evaluate the professional conduct and performance of staff, with the aim that the results obtained can be taken into account, for example, for the perception of pay supplements or for career progression - which are issues that you have pointed out tangentially, but which is one of the objectives for which these instruments are used - then it must be said that for this journey these kits were not required. There was no need, because, as you know, indeed, and you, Mr Gil Vegas, and Mr Hernández, have already pointed out, in this Parliament, a law on public employment is, by the way, well advanced. Moreover, because everything that is proposed in this initiative is expressly reflected in the law approving the legislative decree approving the consolidated text of the Law on the Basic Status of Public Employees; specifically, article 17, on the horizontal career; article 20, on the performance evaluation; and article 24, inter alia, on supplementary remuneration. That's in the Basic Status Act. And it is also expressly reflected in several articles -54, 84, etc. - of the draft law on public employment which is at its final stage of processing in this Parliament and on which we have recently had the opportunity to discuss in this House. And this project incorporates all these innovative elements of management that - as you said and I agree with you - will grant a high degree of professionalism, responsibility, motivation and objectivity of public service. We're talking career, we're talking performance evaluation. And this instrument, which is basically to which you refer, is incorporated for the improvement of management and as an impetus above all for the professional development of the employee and public personnel. In short, all these elements that the law expressly contains are going to improve the institutional quality of our public employment, because, in fact, we can agree on several things and, above all, on the theory of performance evaluation, and there are many benefits that a performance evaluation system generates, such as, for example, effectively reducing the uncertainty about the expectations of the position that public workers can have. It also improves the adjustment between the objectives of the organization's own public worker. And that, moreover, creates a trust between the organization itself and its own employees. It is, in short, an instrument of improvement in the management and professional development, I insist, of public employees. But all this has to be done right. And that means you have to have an ad hoc regulatory framework, with regulatory development, with negotiation, with clarity and transparency. And as I said, all these aspects are expressly reflected in the bill. Mr Ergo goes on to say, Mr Gil Vegas, that the Government's willingness to promote and develop the implementation of these planning instruments in order to achieve efficiency in the provision of services and efficiency in the use of available economic, material and technological personal resources, and, moreover, the Government's willingness to promote and develop the implementation of systems to assess the performance of the staff employed according to the characteristics of the respective jobs, and all this following the processing of the new law on public employment - because it is a matter of normative development, of regulatory development - is what we have stated in this way, as literally in our full amendment, which is what we will finally vote on. It must be said that it is a pity that we were unable to reach a compromise amendment with Elkarrekin Podemos, in which we tried to make a Max-mix - that is why it is called a compromise amendment, right? - in which we expressly acknowledged, first, the professional work and the defence of the public services of our employees and public employees - because it is yours, right? - and we also recovered the call on the Government to ensure trade union participation in the negotiation prior to the implementation or approval of these evaluation systems, because it is also yours. I mean, these are things that go with yours. You also know that, regardless of whether we have different ratings, there is a broad chapter dedicated to... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... It's yours. I mean, these are things that go with yours. You also know that, regardless of whether we have different assessments, there is a broad chapter devoted to collective bargaining in the public employment law. But - I am finalizing - I believe that the only thing that is now appropriate is to conclude, with the maximum consensus, the processing of this new law on public employment, which will define and organize our system, and will regulate the legal regime of our public employees, and will put all these instruments on the track for the management, management and planning of public employment in our country. I believe that if the will of all in this Parliament is to accept the kindness of some instruments that are expressly reflected in a bill that is about to be finalized and to which we can, with will, reach consensus, not to do so will simply be a waste of time. So, I invite you to put on all the limbs to have a good text. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Madame Laruri, the Eurcaner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u98	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoons. Today we are discussing an initiative that brings the People-Citizens Group, in particular Mr Gil. And it is usually customary for the proposer to address the other groups in order to try to reach an agreement, but in this case, at least to us, he has not directed us, we have not had any relationship. With this, he continues with his initiative. You have informed us today in your speech that you will vote, that you will support our amendment, but we have not heard from you so far. And it is curious; if an initiative is to prosper, a dialogue is usually customary. In any case, to begin with, our appreciation of the daily work carried out by the professionals of the Basque public sector. We understand that it is its main capital, the main capital of any organization. We cannot share the exhibition that Mr Gil makes in his initiative, which, in the first line, criticizes the high interinity that exists in the Basque public sector to, then, in the next line, say that stability is negative, because it produces relaxation or... It comes to say, it comes to counter the interinity with then, in the next line, the stability that produces in certain cases relaxation or lack of performance. And it seems dangerous to us, because we understand that professionalism and prestige or the honor, in the end, of public employees are being questioned. We, of course, bet on stability in every organization - also in the public - because we understand that it is good for the organization, and also from the subjective point of view of the individual - because it improves their individual rights - and also from the point of view of the organization - because, in the end, it is an improvement in institutional quality. We also understand that this recognition of good work is compatible with an evaluation; an evaluation, in this case, an evaluation of performance, understood as an instrument that allows an assessment of professional conduct and performance or achievement of results, but never seen from a punishment point of view, but from the point of view of the improvement, both subjective and collective, of the individual and of the organization. We agree, therefore, on its own assessments, but they are already being carried out. We cannot share either their justification in their explanatory statement or their specific proposal. On the one hand, the justification - as I said - the prestige, the questioning of the performance of public employees. On the other hand, to say that it does not exist, that there is total absence of evaluation. No, one thing is that we are going to collect what is already included in the public employment bill - a specific section of that at its appropriate level of development - and that is to say, there is no evaluation at this time in the Basque public administrations. And that is not the case, they have been carried out, they are carried out periodically, and they have had consequences, both in the organization of services and in the professional career or the professional development of the... or even, pardon, in the supplementary remunerations, which are the result of such prior assessments. Nor do we share what he speaks of as public structures and systems for managing ageing staff. We don't know for you what's aged. In any case, we understand that Basque public organizations are living, evolving organizations that adapt to circumstances and try to fit into global trends in good governance. As I said, the Public Employment Bill contains specific sections on evaluation. We do not share, as he said, his concrete proposal, because we understand, on the one hand, that it does not correspond to the moment of normative development, because, first, we understand that the law on public employment must be adopted and then two normative developments will be adopted, which is what his proposal could be, and because this leads to trade union negotiations. Yes or yes, a performance evaluation issue involves trade union negotiation. And in that was the proposal made, one of Elkarrekin Podemos's part made, which I understand we agreed there, although we have not managed to agree in full and, therefore, we have not reached that compromise. So, the public employment bill that's already... and that's not, and that we don't talk about, in our amendment we don't talk about this. We do not say what we have said because you have brought this initiative here. What we say in the amendment is already reflected in the public employment law that has been in this Parliament for months. With this, it was not his initiative that motivated us to say what we say. We said that the public employment law says that it establishes a basis, which will be a minimum for each organization to develop, in addition to the development that the Basque Government must do, according to the law, by adopting a regulation on professional development and performance evaluation, with the minimums established by the Basque Public Employment Coordination Commission. And what are those minimums? Those minimums contained in the law? For the public administrations will implement - there is an obligation - but with the characteristics of... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... And what are those minimums? Those minimums contained in the law? For, that the public administrations will implement - there is an obligation - but with the characteristics and requirements that each respective post of each organization requires, that it will affect the complementary salaries and the professional career as well, as depending on the outcome in each Administration and also on the trade union negotiation. It also sets out criteria, such as impartiality, objectivity, transparency, non-discrimination, non-infringement of the rights of the public employee; main objectives, such as improving performance, motivation, vocational training... And all this in a flexible framework, because it doesn't mean, it doesn't want... in terms of times, because it does not want to make a dramatic or drastic break with respect to the current system, that is, it establishes a transitional period, and, on the other hand, because it allows each Administration to adapt it to its organization, and, in this sense, flexible. Therefore, our approach, although it already exists, has existed periodically, will not be of its satisfaction, but it has existed. First, to adopt the law on public employment, and then, then, the developments, both of the regulations and the developments that each Administration makes, after collective bargaining. And that was our amendment. Therefore, performance evaluation, yes, understood as subjective and objective improvement, but not to its justification and its concrete proposal. And it was not possible, as I said, to reach an agreement. The proposer has not addressed us. And with the other only amending group, which is Elkarrekin We can, well, well, we have been - I think - close, but probably the mention of the public employment law has made us not find that meeting point, but surely we are not so far away. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. "And it shall be [that] he shall not speak. He shall not speak. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garcia, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u100	Thank you, ma'am. And good evening to all. We have insisted upon the gathering of the Basque People, that the pandalizes had necessarily been uncovered, that a society must require strong public services, and that the need of such a need is confirmed by the uncertain reality of the present day. The strong public services of quality are indispensable in society, in order to answer the inequality of citizens, and the necessities of every community. After all, we are speaking of the stateal column of the well-known welfare as education or health. And when we speak of public services of quality, we mean the right of ours, that the eucalycals may be treated with euphora, because public services are obliged to guarantee the language of the Basques. On the contrary, the PP-Ciudados, which represents the initiative to dispute, as it shows where it governs, is its political and ideological attitude to attack public services: the fundamental services are limited by the public services in privatization or reposition of duties, limited to the reality of the euscal society, and to the requirements of the public. This is why the initiative which the PP-Cellanos contributes to weaken public services can only be understood in this ideological position. And thus it must be understood, that when he says that public services ought to be a structure adapted to real wants. There are many and varied neo-liberal mantras that are used against public services: from the supposed waste of public management in the face of the best efficiency of private management to the one that today brings us the PP-Citizens group, as it is that the employees do not work or have low performance. He said that there were few people, but, in the opinion of the proposing group, they should be enough to bring the initiative to Parliament. And then, from this perspective, and from the ideological position of who defends the initiative, nothing new. 21st To speak of the needs of the Public Administration of the century requires seriousness, and to escape from such Topires as are derived from the PP-Ciudados. We cannot forget that strong and strong public services are to be founded upon public employment of quality, which is not the state of public employment now. It is still a challenge to accomplish the temporary rate of public administration from 8% below, as has been promised from Europe. Now, to fix the job, extraordinary processes are running, but the temporary rate may not be enough to lower than 8%. In the proposal group's initiative, first, it talks about the unacceptable rates of interinity, but then it seems acceptable to it because, even so, the working conditions are so far from the working conditions of the labour market that, in its view, it allows people with low levels of performance. And it places here the problem it claims to solve with this initiative. We do not know whether the pretensions or what the PP-Citizens group suggests are to generalize instability, job insecurity, precarious conditions and wages of the labour market in public administrations as an engine of performance. And yes, changes in human resources management are needed in public services, but the alternative to the current model, of course, in the 21st century Public Administration is not the management model of private enterprise. A management model, the result of an unfair job insecurity process, generating situations that overwhelm labour exploitation. In the process of modernizing human resources management in the public administration, trade union participation is necessary in its dual role of defending working conditions and also in its role of defending quality public services, which contribute to reducing social inequalities. And so will the unions this Sunday, June 26, at the demonstration convened in Bilbao to defend the Basque public health system, Osakidetza, against the situation and cuts announced in primary care. And one thing: this event calls for ELA, LAB, CCOO, UGT, SATSE and ESK. Six unions... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... And one thing: this event calls for ELA, LAB, CCOO, UGT, SATSE and ESK. Six trade unions are calling for a demonstration in favour of the Basque public health system, against the announced cuts and primary care. I want to say this as a fact, because it may happen that some of the representatives of this House will lead you to conclude that not only Euskal Herria Bildu is not reliable, but that not all these calling trade unions are. And the participation of trade unions - which the proposing group forgets - must ensure that, where appropriate, human resources management, performance evaluation, is done in an objective, transparent manner, avoiding arbitrariness and discrimination, with guarantees for those involved. And with the clear aim of improving the motivation and involvement of public employees in improving public services. And the objectives of performance evaluation, in any case, cannot be raised with the aim of punishing or rewarding, as proposed by the PP-Citizens group, but should serve to identify opportunities for professional development and continuous improvement and continuous training of public employees. Not just for management, as proposed by the initiative. It should also be used to give an active role in assessing public employees, to prioritise a model aimed at improving the motivation and involvement of these employees. It should also be used to assess the need to also include an assessment of group performance in the face of the growing interdependence of the public sector where, in many cases, the results are explained from group work. And it must also be used for reviewing methods, organization and workloads, because the achievement of objectives may be outside the individual control of the public employee. In short, the evaluation must assist the professional development of public clerks, in order to give a better answer to the demands and hinges of the euscal society. And for this purpose, employment of quality is indispensable, though it has a problem with the party who proposes it. For these reasons, we will vote "no" for the proposed initiative. Another reason for voting against the facts is because today the subject which has been brought in a partial and interested manner is to be discussed in the sphere of the law of public employment which is being enacted. And so we think this is the time to discuss this with an integrated view. And that's why we didn't run a correction from the Basque Country. Besides, the PP-Ciudadanos has not even made the initiative which has brought him here to correct the law of public employment. For the same reason, we will vote for the claims of the law proposed, − again, in our opinion, what we are discussing today must be discussed in the frame of the law of public employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. On the day of our answers, the representative of the popular-Chaunos, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Let's see if it gives me time to answer, because there's a lot to say. Mr Hernández, we are not opposed to this being negotiated with the unions, but not everything that is done in the administration must be negotiated with the unions, not everything. And in particular, there are many issues that have to do with the management of officials, who depend on the (structure?) Directive to be adopted by the Council. And I think it is right that an evaluation system should be negotiated in general with the trade unions. We do not say no, but that is not the axis, nor does it seem to us that it is the fundamental weight of the proposal. I don't know, you're saying that the proposal has left you unplaced... I believe that yes, that it has left you out of the way, and I believe that you still do not understand it, because you have decided what the objectives of my initiative are, you have decided that you will criticize the officials. I do not think he has understood the initiative or my intervention either, because what I have done is quite the opposite: to defend the public service and the work of the majority of officials. And that is precisely why it is necessary to implement these types of management systems. Mrs Gallástegui, to say that there are no public employees who have poor returns seems to me very unrealistic, indeed. I don't know if we live in different countries. To have them, there are them, and you're sure to know them. Isn't there? Not all of them are excellent. There are so many... or there are public employees with poor returns, just as there are public employees with extraordinary returns. Not all public employees have the same level of performance and therefore not all can be treated equally, they require different treatments. The public employment law being processed is fine and it is the perch from which this can hang, but, of course, the public employment law will not include the development of all the management systems to be implemented. And this is the only thing that you intend to do is to help this aspect develop. Does the public employment law contemplate or contemplate the perch? Perfect. Which means that so far, actually, it wasn't being done. It wasn't done. Because if all this that you say we have added in our initiative is already in the law, then I don't know what problem you have in voting yes even on our initiative. You who have read it, I guess slowly, know that more than half of the things we propose are not in the law. And that is precisely why we did not propose the transaction to them, and that is because we knew that we were very ambitious. We knew that we were defending a very concrete system of performance evaluation, with a high level of detail. And we understood that you probably wouldn't want to go that far. We proposed a five and you give us one. We love being given one, but we asked for a five. We already knew that we were not going to accept the transaction in any way. Good. Mrs Larrauri, I didn't say stability looks bad to me. I don't know where you read it or when you heard it; on the contrary, it seems to me that stability in the public service is very good, it seems to me that this is what it has to be. Mrs. Larrauri, I haven't talked about punishment. I've been talking about the consequences of poor performance... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... I think that's what it has to be. Mrs. Larrauri, I haven't talked about punishment. I've been talking about the consequences of poor performance. I don't know what's on your mind. It's not the same, eh! One consequence of poor performance, for example, is training. So, it is you who make here the thread that does not correspond. I mean, it has nothing to do with this. And by the way, I've talked about older structures, not older people, that I'm the least I can talk about. And Mrs Garcia, there was neither in my initiative nor in my intervention any attack on public services. His intervention has been a mere collection of prejudices, of mantras, of topics. And on the basis of those, he has not only judged the initiative, but also said that I have said things that I have not said. So, you are actually talking about things that I haven't talked about at all. He also talks about the management model causing labour exploitation. It's kind of amazing things, which I think are talking about you being out of the business reality of this majority country. And besides, and then, after saying this and saying that, therefore, it is better that there is no evaluation, it goes and tells us what that evaluation should be like. He says group, with objectives. Clear up. I don't think you've read the initiative very well either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Messires, Mr. Hernandez must not speak. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u104	Thank you, President. No, just to say a question to Mr. Gil Vegas. I have had to explain myself wrongly or you have understood what seemed to you most appropriate to understand, that I think it is the second question, because I have not said that there are no public officials or employees who, in the end, are not doing their job well. I think, like everywhere else, this is like the Lord's vineyard, right? What I have said is that, when there is an irregular performance or a bad performance in the field of public service by public employees, there is no need to go to punishment, it is necessary to go to the corresponding disciplinary rules, which are the ones that I have pointed out to you that there are both in the law of public employment, the law of Basque civil service, and in the basic statute of the public employee, and that go up to the separation of service. It is true that, in the end, the public sphere is not the same as the private one, is it? And we see it constantly, both in the courts of the social as well as in the courts of the contentious-administrative. It's not the same, but it's not the same. I mean there is, there is, but there is. And then, what it is about is using the mechanisms. As for performance evaluation, performance evaluation, evaluation processes, within the Administration exist, and you know it perfectly well as I do. Another thing is that the law expressly collects, adapting to the text of the Basic Staff Regulations, that specific performance evaluation figure that must always be done in the area of regulatory policy development with a law that gives the normative framework, because you know as well as I, if you have read some of the disadvantages of performance evaluation processes, that not doing so in a legal framework, in a normative framework that determines it, can lead to very expensive situations. You know it just like I do. Well, you know it a lot better than I do, because that's what you've been working on, but I've been worried about finding out too. And finally, what I think is that, I insist, we have there a great law, which can become great; in fact, we are all asking for it for a long time. I believe that we are already starting from a point of origin, that this consensus is going to try, to see if, in fact, we get the best public employment law to have the best organization and the best management of public services, which is, in short, why we bet some at least, on public services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Madame Laruri, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u106	Yes, from the seat, Chief of Parliament. Mr. Gil, briefly. Well, the issue of stability. I think we've all understood it that way. The contrast it makes with the stability and the possibility it gives for low performance. You in the first or second paragraph do... Well, this stability makes it possible for low performance. That's very clear, and we've all understood that, and that's what we tell him we don't share. As for the old structures, speak well of people or organization, we continue without sharing. We do not understand that it is an ageing structure and management systems of the Basque public administrations. Another thing is that we are in a process of improvement, in a process of new tools, which is what we are with the law of public employment. And as for your proposal, your proposal was a five and ours one. No, it's not his thing a Ferrari and our thing a Panda. No, it's just that you have to know what it takes at every moment and in every place. And at this moment, we are at a time of development, that the law of public employment does what it does is to establish bases. And that is so, that is what we have said, establishes a basis that will then be each organization that develops, that gives the degree of detail that you want to get to, that will or will not coincide with your proposal, according to what each organization decides also by mediating collective bargaining. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u107	Thank you. EH Collect must not speak a word. [[Pause]] [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 6; the opponents are 67; Abstenations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u108	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer's full-line correction. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 5; the contrary, 48; Abstations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u109	Not accepted. Finally, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eucabertists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 5; abstations 22; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u110	So, it's been accepted as an integer correction. Number of points in theme list: "Phum up the propose as the parliamentary teams made, the connection between the Esska Y on the AHT network and the corridors of Navarrea is only from the current railway. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Fernandez de Bethoño, representing and defending EH Collect Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u111	Yes, good afternoon to all. Euscal Y's project was pretty bad when it was done about 25 years ago, and it looks even worse now, when we've been doing his jobs for 16 years. Problems can be grouped, they can be summed up in three axes. On the one hand, there were dealers at first, and there are now. It's a great work for us to arrange everything in the handwriting, the tunnel, the tunnel, the viducted... he answers to this schema, and therefore, though he does not see much, yet one third of his being in the tunnel. The damages are there at two-thirds, and, for instance, it has been known from us that only 30 sources have been dried up in the Gipulia branch this year. And even in order to do these bad works, there is a tremendous amount of fluid sent to the atmosphere, and though afterwards it is an electrocuted transport, the experts of EHU have shown that all the emissions that have been shed on the works must have been at least 100 years running. And if that were only a short time ago, we were told that it would be useful to send the goods out of trucks and highways to the train, but that also turned down three or four years ago. We have already told us that the goods will not go down from Spain in those trains, in high-speed trains. So, the dealers are right there, they're right there and they're still there today. He has social problems, he has them from the beginning. It was plain that it was a project, that it would not be worth while to balance the territory; that it would serve for the superiority of the capitals to increase still further. In fact, the only stations are in the capital. And, for instance, although the citizens of Durangon, Tolsano, or Legutius, can see their damages in their townships, they will not be able to use them, and consequently there will be at last a project in the Basque Country, and in this case there will be no opposition to the existence of certain parts of the EAE. And of course we need to talk about economic problems. From the beginning, it was said, in 1997, when it was made, it was said that it was already worth $3,000 million. The money in those days, some of it being updated with inflation, would be approximately $3.600 euros today. But as soon as the play began, in a book that was sung by Red Munch, the budget suddenly became doubled: it was said that it would already be 5.900 million euros. And today's the day when you're laughing that it'll be worth more than 6,500 million dollars, which seems like nobody cares anymore. We're told, over and over again, that this whole Spanish project pays, but it's true that in the places where we're qualified, we pay 10%, and it's not a small one, because we pay for the projects and the management. And it's worse than that that that all the money Spain invests in EAE EEscal Y is that which doesn't cost money to other infrastructure. And that's how you understand the collapse of Renf and the Adiaf infrastructure in EAE. So, in our opinion, the attention should be placed there on the regular track. And, indeed, we wanted to talk about the passage of Esska Y and Navarre, as it was today's proposition... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... in the usual railway line. And, indeed, we wanted to talk about the train that has to connect to the Esska Y and Navarre corridor as today. There are, as you know, two projects on the table to be connected with a new-speed train platform. One's the one that's going to connect it with the honeyfish, it's like a project of funk that's going to be worth about 2,000 million, and a tunnel that's about twenty-five miles below the Arlar. And in front of this there is another project, a new high-speed railway platform, which is to be proposed for Sakan and the 4ata of Arada, and seems to serve about 700 million euros, almost three times less, and this project seems to be more agreeable or more agreeable to the Spanish government. We are asking for a third project in today's legal proposal, because we can't forget that Iruña and Gasteiz have a connection from 1865 to the usual train, and we believe that the whole of it is highly favorable to it today, for instance, during Iruña Oka and Alsausu, speeds are obtained, for example, at 60 miles an hour, very good speed. Don't forget that the speeds to come from Esscal Y will be 220, so that those who get between Iruña Oka and Alsau are not much lower. But what we propose is to modernize the railway and improve it, and that would be the rate of 200 kilometers an hour, very competitive. Besides, this idea must be said to be not only the EH Collector's, and we must mention the three important enterprises which are spent in the last few months. First, there's a union initiative. In May, in the year past, the principal unions with Renfen and Adife representative, CCOOT, CGT, SEMAF, Sindicato Ferrovarian and others, made a manifio, saying that between Iruea and Gaste there is no sense in making a new line, and in places where the doubles must be made, such as the corks must be made, such as Alsupau and Iña are not doubled by the train. So that's the union initiative. The second initiative is to be mentioned, the public initiative. The citizen's platforms have been joined by the Burgos, the Abakians, and the Navarres, and have created a common platform, which is called the alternative to the "Alterativata" of the el railway train, and, in fact, there are several undertakings. But in the past few months they've started an important initiative, and because of a gangdfunding campaign, they've ordered an informative study between Burgos, Gasteiz, Iruza, and Zaragoza, to show that there can be a series of modernizations, a very competitive speed for one hundred miles an hour. The three engineers of the three engineers, roads, Upaths, and harbors are doing this study, and have already shown that this is possible in the introductions. And a third initiative is remarkable, and it is institutional. The entities of the place on the path have signed the ideas I am mentioning just now that a maniftsky has passed in March: Between theruña and Gastéi, and that between the incluso Burgos and Zaraganzas it is not necessary to begin a new, high-speed line, because the whole of it allows itself to become modernised and to acquire competitive speeds. When the manifesto was signed, the 35 local entities signed it in March, as I have already observed, and then discussed this municipal council, this manifect, and another 15 councils have joined the initiative. And, for example, it is remarkable that he has done for this Alsatsu, and that later Bai has not shown the opposition in comparison of this manification. And of course we should mention the EH Collectation initiative in Congress of Madrid. We've got a game in General 2022, 200,000 dollars to go into. What for? To make a new informative examination, between Burgos, Gasteiz, Irua, and Zaragoza, it may be shown that a railway of high preparations, which will be mixed with −kance, with competitive speed. So I think that four of these initiatives are very interesting, and that in this last initiative, in order to complete the final game that has been achieved in Madrid and in general funds, we put the second point of our legal proposal. And we're asking him to cooperate, to help you, even if he's not right, but because he's an informative study that will have power in EAE too, just as he does in his development, in other informative studies, with the government of Narehar, and, of course, the Ministry of MITMA, with the Ministry in hand. This is the second point of our legal proposal. And we have focused the first point on a novelty, because it must be mentioned that new ones have also come in Europe in this interval. As for the train to connect to the corridor of Esscal Y and Navarre, December 14, the European Board published the result of a review for many years. And here it is shown that as it is not going to be done before 2030 the new line of high-speed train is not going to be done, they have proposed, as we see in this −, what was before, between the transnational network of Europe which is called a bassic network, and which is now proposed at the present time in 2022, at first it was of the Vitête-Iña, and so it took place in a new line of high speed, which has been replaced by a green colour. And... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ... In one of them Gasteau-June was purple, so a long-speed new line was replaced by a green colour. And this means that even Europe, at the present moment, must not be obliged to connect a new high-speed line to the Iruha and Gaste, but that the conventional line must be improved, and that in this sense, in the sense in which we proclaim it to be different from our own law. So, what we're saying at our first point is fun, let's make a match with that line of TEN-T that the European Board is reviewing. It's true that he's not so sure yet, but he's in the middle of the line, so we think he's going to have to join his plans. And it is the only railway that must be connected with the corridor of Esscal Y and Navarre, which now exists, modernised and improved, because we believe that it is quite possible to get the speeds of 200 miles an hour, as we have said here. So we think it would be fun to hear the unions, because of course it would be necessary to listen to the localities that are also affected by them, and to this very moment the Spanish Government and the European Committee. We'll continue to work, so that the game that comes in the Spanish budget will be fulfilled. And we will continue to work on a more social and retrebulator train to bind Vittoria and Irune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u112	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u113	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. The connection between the AHT's network and the corridor of the Navarre, is a subject of discussion only as well as of the ordinary railway of the present day, in which the EH Collectorate presents itself, but also of the EH, as it is proposed, we must say − in this parliament and several institutions of the Araba and Navarre, the different enterprises which we have presented will be discussed or discussed in the like terms. And, to be honest, we all agree with what our colleague Fernande de Betoño has said, and in this sense we agree, and even in the proposition. And it's hard to say more new things. We must also be circumscribed to the moment we are. In January 2018 the General Secretariat of Infrastructures provisionally approved the informative study of the Cantábrico-Mediterranean railway corridor project, the Pamplona section-connection with the Basque Y, and a process was made and the process of public information and hearing, also to different administrations, began. Azterlan information horrek Araban, Araba bear zehar, urduritasun éta kezka zabaldu zuen. There was a major social and political controversy in Araba, debates in Araba's institutions. Agerraldiak ere eman zirens, hiritarren agerraldiak. Eta lota ére Arabako Batzar Nagusiak zonalde ezberdinak bisitatu zituen, balizko kalteak edo projektu honen balizko kalteak ezagutzeko eta zuzenean ezagutzeko. We are talking about a plot, moreover, which goes parallel to the current plot. And after its publication and this period of allegations, the resolution of that study has been delayed for a very long time. A month ago exactly the Minister of Transport, Raquel Sánchez, acknowledged the complexity of the study's resolution by the numerous allegations and by the majority rejection given in some of the territories. And I think that we are - not only that of Euskal Herria Bildu, not only that of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita - many voices in Araba, in Nafarroa and also in Burgos that, in view of the decision to make a new route starting, for example, from the alternative of Ezkio, or from Vitoria-Gasteiz to Iruña, and the great economic, social and environmental cost of either of these two alternatives, we defend the adaptation of the existing route, improving its capacity, its performance and also its average speeds. Because it is better for the environment, because the transport is bearable, and it aims to promote the restoration of the country, and also because it is cheaper. That's why we signed this medium, and that's why we've also introduced other initiatives. Promocionar las contexiones entre el corredor navarro y la Y vasca del TAV exclusivamente a traves de laínea de ferrocarril convencional que actualmente es lo propone est inicativa. We ask that the modern railwayline between Gasteiz and Irune may be modified by the various institutions, and also by the Esquido, the government of Navarre, and also by MITMA, the Ministry, because we think that working with the institutional Ministry is indispensable, although this jurisdiction is not −krent. We say - it has already been said - that we agree and study the adaptation of the mid-speed line of 200-220, that we study where it is necessary the duplication of tracks, the fence of the line where it touches, the suppression of the steps at level, the enabling of cross-steps for the fauna, the aqueduct in the environment of Asparrena, the construction of a wide changer in the environment of Vitoria-Gasteiz for the interoperability of trains with the Basque Y. Something similar to what, by the way, very close to here have signed and agreed Adif and the Government of La Rioja on December 28, 2020, for the improvement of the conventional railway line between Castejon and Logroño. The train and the public transport are the moment, we all say, all institutions say, protecting the environment, saving money, even building the country, and climate change... [[End of tape 54]] [[Start of tape 55.]] ... We say, that all institutions say, protecting the environment with their heads, saving money, even adapting the country, and fighting against climate change. That is why we think that this is the best alternative, out of respect for the environment, to get a social train that will spill over the territory. And, in addition, we will continue to fight for that line similar to closeness between Miranda and Altsasu, which is the best connection also for Pamplona, because it also saves money on two infrastructures that has already been mentioned in the two alternatives: one, 700 million, and the other, more than 2 billion euros, that of Ezkio Itxaso, which also has a history not far from here, as is the virtually eternal problems that has had, for example, the work to connect Asturias with the peninsula through Pajares. As did Fernandez de Betño, thanks to all the initiatives that have been signaled by − Betteratto, outside parliaments, in this sense, as well as the unions of the Renfe, the labors excited by public platforms and local entities. In taking these jobs, too, this initiative has been introduced, or the medium has been introduced. And so, − I insist on everything that Fernandez de Betoño has described, and in these minutes, we think it's a much better alternative than what I have said, to promote an alternative to environmental, and to promote an alternative much cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u114	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u115	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. The high speed with the People's Party in the Government of Spain and with the Serna minister at the head of the Fomento portfolio had project, date, budget. And for the Basque Country more specifically, 5 billion euros. Since Mr Sánchez's arrival in the government, with the help and support of the Basque Nationalist Party and now with the support of Podemos and Bildu, the Basque Country has seen the project, dates and budget go away. Each year of Sánchez's government is one more year late for the implementation of the AVE in Euskadi. The stations of Vitoria, Bilbao began to be buried. Then, that of Bilbao, we took a scare a little while ago, was going to Basauri; that of Vitoria, (about rascent?)). Finally, they're going to be buried. But we'll see how and when. With regard to the allegations submitted to the projects of these stations, as they have not yet been answered. With regard to the European Commission on the TEN-T network, which is the Trans-European Transport Network, which comprises linear and nodal transport infrastructures in road, rail, air, maritime and inland waterway modes (navigation?) I would like to say that it makes a recommendation. And the recommendation is to modernize the Core network, that is, the Core Network that we have so far, that is, the basic network. But at no point does he say that the Pamplona-Y Basque project should be paralyzed, at no point does he say so in that document. So, that connection... The most important thing for the Basque Country is that there is a connection with high speed, that is, with Burgos. Since at the time Mr Ortuzar said that we had a bidegorri in Euskadi, we had a high-speed infrastructure without high-speed trains, the important thing is that the government get to work and make the connection of the Basque Y with Burgos a reality. It is vital for the Basque Country that the Government of Spain continue to work on the cantabrian corridor so that the AVE between Navarra and Euskadi is a reality. And I announce to you that we are going to vote on our amendment. And we tell the Government of Spain to stop making announcements, to stop talking and to really work to carry out the projects of the Spanish high speed and the connection with the Basque Country, with the Basque Y. They're running late. I would tell you that less samba and more work, that it is better to stop talking and carry out the projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Euskal Herria Bildu proposes us in the initiative recorded in February this year that the connections between the Navarro corridor and the Basque Y of the TAV are encouraged exclusively through the conventional railway line that currently exists. This approach is based on the revision of the regulation of the transport network (STINTI?) which started the European Commission in 2019 and under the heading of 200,000 euros that in the General Budgets of the State for 2022, in the budget negotiation carried out by Euskal Herria Bildu with the Government of Spain, was introduced to make a study of the modernization of the current railway line between Burgos, Vitoria, Pamplona and Zaragoza. And in December 2021 the European Commission presented its proposal for a revision of the European Union Regulation on Union guidelines for the development of the Trans-European Transport Network. A regulation regulating the European Union's transport infrastructure policy with the aim of facilitating flows between Member States and, in addition, supporting the Union's territorial, economic and social cohesion. And this proposal is in line with the action plan included in the European Green Pact and the Sustainable and Intelligent Mobility Strategy. The 2021 proposal analyses in particular the situation of each Member State. And among the main developments of this revision proposal is the new intermediate deadline in the expanded core network on 31 December 2040. Thus, the trans-European transport network... [[End of tape 55]] [[Start of tape 56.]] ... Proposal for a revision, is the new intermediate deadline on the basic network extended on 31 December 2040. Thus, the trans-European transport network will be gradually developed in three stages: the basic main network by 31 December 2030; the extended main network by 31 December 2040; and the global network by 31 December 2050. Another new feature of this review is the inclusion of the main passenger rail lines of the trans-European transport network, and that trains travel at 160 kilometres per hour, faster by 2040, thus creating competitive high-speed rail connections throughout the Union. The whole revision proposal is accompanied, in addition, by an action plan on long-distance and cross-border railways which sets out a road map with new actions to help the European Union meet the objective of doubling high-speed rail traffic by 2030 and tripling it by 2050. And it is expected to have the review completed and adopted the final decision in the first half of 2023. With regard to that section of Pamplona and its connection with the Basque Greek Y, this is a matter, a decision that today, 23 June, has no determination and is under study, but that by the words of the minister will clear up doubts and a final decision will be taken shortly, at least before the summer, at a meeting between the Government of Spain, the Basque Government and the Government of Navarre. In January 2018 – as has already been said – an informational study was presented to determine where the (?) the connection, analyzing two possible traces: by Ezkio or by Vitoria-Gasteiz. And then a period of public information was opened, after which a decision would be made. And according to the data given by Minister Raquel Sánchez himself, 10,000 allegations were raised that blocked or made impossible the next step, which was the declaration of environmental impact. This informative study includes the two variants of connection: the alternative h, with connection in Ezkio and with a tunnel of more than 20 kilometers in length, crossing areas of high environmental quality, and the alternative v, a new corridor parallel to the current, making the connection by Vitoria-Gasteiz. And Euskal Herria Bildu has expressed his frontal opposition, both to alternative h and alternative v, presenting a proposal that is based on this complete modernization of the current corridor. A modernization that would under no circumstances reach by far the service and operational services of the alternatives proposed by the information study. And during the review, all member states have updated the status of their planning and studies, and have focused on those so-called national dates, on which it can be seen that for Spain the two alternatives are included: the h, the main network (?) extends to 2040, and v, in the global network, by 2050. And in that review, the ministry in its discussions with the commission, the only thing that you have stated, Mr Fernández de Betoño, is that the Pamplona Vitoria section did not include high-speed infrastructures that culminated in 2030, nothing more, and that, therefore, could not be included in the basic or main network phase. But it has never been said, it has never been assured in any way that that connection will not be made at high speed. Moreover, the document of national or state dates proposes the replacement of this high-speed infrastructure by the conventional, but maintaining the high-speed connection by Ezkio. And so, the Basque Socialists have jointly presented with the Basque nationalists and on 16 March a complete amendment to the proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu, in which we urge the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport of the Basque Government to manage, together with the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, the inclusion of the alternatives proposed in the informative study of the connection Pamplona Y Greek Basque, within the revision that is being carried out of the regulations of the Corridors (?), in line with the more realistic planning of the implementation of this infrastructure, which will soon take place. And we also urge the Basque Government to collaborate with the ministry in all the studies that are necessary for the improvement of the railway networks that affect this autonomous community. And why we put this proposal, because for several reasons: first, because Euskal Herria Bildu records this initiative, which we are debating today, on 22 February, after announcing in Pamplona three days before they would require the Government of Spain to suspend the processing of all the high-speed train platforms found in the project between Navarra and Álava. On the other hand, the Socialists are not only against the VAT, but we consider it a tool of economic competitiveness and territorial cohesion. That is why, in the face of Euskal Herria Bildu's exclusive proposal, we, together with Basque nationalists, are proposing an inclusive proposal. Its proposal to modernize the current infrastructure would under no circumstances reach by far those service or operational services of alternatives h or v. Secondly, because in this review of the ministry, the ministry itself has stated that the Pamplona Vitoria section does not include high-speed infrastructure that culminates in 2030, but so far, nothing more. Therefore, they cannot be included in this basic or main network phase, the aim of which is to be completed by the end of 2030, but rather in the extended main network of implementation up to 2040. Thirdly, the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Mrs Raquel Sánchez, has been publicly assuring that the connection with Pamplona has not yet been defined, and that the two alternatives are still being analysed in a technical update that will allow for a mutually agreed decision to be taken before the summer at a tripartite meeting of the Spanish, Basque and Navarro governments. Fourthly, with our amendment we continue to demand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u119	Thank you. We continue to claim that for the Basque Socialists high speed is a project of progress that increases our competitiveness, and especially when the European Union has ratified the proposal to include the Atlantic Corridor within the priority European transport networks, which means creating alternative routes to the road for the transport of people and goods. The high-speed rail network and the Basque Greek Y are part of that corridor of which Euskadi constitutes an insertion label with the Ebro axis and with the itineraries towards the rest of the peninsula and also towards Europe. The Basque Socialists hope that in the near future, and beyond opportunistic or opportune initiatives or amendments, which are adopted in this House, a decisive management decision will be taken in the connection between Pamplona and the Basque Greek Y, and that this solution, in addition to being feasible, will be supported by viability and interinstitutional consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours. [[End of tape 56]] [[Start of tape 57.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u121	Good afternoon. Chief of Parliament, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good afternoon. Well, as a matter of fact, this initiation on the table made me wonder, and I'll tell you why. The group presenter tells us that he proposes to fire from the traditional railway connection between Y vasca and the corridor of Navarre. And such a violent proposition, and that which has no connection with the past near us, makes a change of rule, with a proposition to change the rule; that is to say, after a sketch. A rule in public, that is to say, is not firm, and proposes to change. And he proposes to change our plans, our organization, our predictions, our 20 years' work. For the first time, it will be the law, decree, this or that law, or any other legal instrument, which is so easily admitted. It is only necessary to go to a close example, and that comes to the case: the territorial PTS of railways of the Basque Country was approved on February 27, 2001, picks up the high speed, and I have never seen such submission and acceptance of the plan. Perpleja has left me this performance, Mr. Betaño. On the other hand, I think you rule out any option in your proposal attached to the third thread. With this, rail access to Europe I understand that it is very committed. And this regulation does speak of rail access to Europe. As our comrade of Basque Socialists rightly said, with other deadlines, but he speaks and collects the document. In any case, any choice we make regarding the high-speed train, the high-performance train that others call, the high-speed train, any proposal that we make I understand that must be made to favor the interests of Euskadi, to strategically look at Euskadi what it needs, to look at how we encourage our ports, the port of Bilbao, to look at whether the exit of Aragon to the Atlantic can be done there, and not encouraging and accepting that the strategic axis will be Zaragoza-Logroño-Burgos. I don't know if that defends Euskadi's interests; I suspect not. I suspect not. I understand that, of course, they have not done an analysis of our needs. Bigarren dagokionez score, ez dagokagu swimming arazorik. 200,000 euroko match beat da. Aurrekontuetan, Espainiako aurrekontuetan jasota egongo dira, eta trebide sarean horrekin ezer gutxi egin daitezke. As a comparative data, zuk eman dituzu datu batzuk, alternating (...) hours. Horrek 76 kilometerstarako, ba, beasts kopuru batzuk ebiltzen ditu. Right-righteous, we could do with that, maybe, paying the fees for the news studio, right? I am not saying with this that we must disregard the amount, at all. The groups that support the Government have also introduced a heading on this, on this issue, to carry out studies on the existing route, because they are two routes that complement each other and this is reflected in the railway PTS of the Basque Country. But it seems to me an exercise of unstable balance to include in the same order of parity these two concepts, which neither have the same economic performance nor have the same importance, the same size, nor the same social exploitation. In the foregoing remarks, the result of these matters was a correction of the whole. And this whole correction, and all the others having read, was our desire to approach somehow to the opinions of other groups. But, to be honest, what was actually introduced, and what we received today, there has been no way of making this preparation. And I'll try to explain why not. Well, first of all, warning is a proposition. If it's a proposition, it's not firm, it's a sketch. So now is the time to examine what has been proposed, to see in our country what causes it. And, as has been shown by the members of the legislature to Corcue, the effect is just in time and not in stroke. We don't let it go. This document of Europe, I believe, does not exclude our connection with Navarre. And, well, when we look at it and bring it to our land, we must make some correction, and ('Cf. ) An opinion must be required. That's what we've got in our corrections. That's what we've been getting, and not at all, to quit the work up to now and the current infrastructure. We can only see the effect of this exercise in our infrastructure, and, above all, − again, it is in time and not in the structure itself. By the way, we're still doing our 2018 informal studio... Well, businessmen got it, but we haven't got it yet, and it's all right. There are two options recorded in this document that have both options, good sides and bad, but we need to take a next step to continue with the infrastructure. Bestalde, Elkarrekin Podemos presented, and today has been largely shared by EH Bildu, one of the amendments to the whole. An amendment to the whole of low intensity, which I think was trying to be harmless, which was presented in that way, and which I cannot understand. The aim of this proposal was to reach a high-performance train – I believe, judging by the speed they promise, 220 kilometers per hour...−... [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]] ...to understand. The aim of this proposal was to reach a high-performance train – I believe, judging by the speed they promise, 220 kilometres per hour – i.e. a high-speed train. To do this, he proposes to adapt the track, he proposes to double the tracks in some sections to increase capacity, I suppose. It proposes a two-way approach, I also assume that in order to ensure a high level of use of the roads, it also addresses certain environmental aspects, ecological corridors and so on, which I understand that an infrastructure of this size always contemplates at this time. And finally, it includes a wide changer for the Vitoria environment. I am surprised by the approach, the safety it seeks to convey in the way it is presented, and I am more surprised that it is not clear what the benefit is for Euskadi. If the benefit is Zaragoza Logroño I keep quiet, but it is not ours, of course, it cannot be developed there. From this reading, from the reading of this amendment, it appears that he wanted to present a non-invasive solution. A solution that was attractive in temporal terms, even at the cost of making up certain data that has been made up, and at least with the cunning of not including real conditions in the territory. The real conditions that can therefore be that the Arakil River has a flood that must be protected, that ecological corridors are not enough to solve all the environmental aspects, that with a change of width we do not solve a third thread. The third thread is not included either in Bildu's proposal or in Elkarrekin's proposal Podemos, and without a third thread, we do not enter Europe, rail we do not enter Europe. Railway companies in Zaragoza are not going to reach Burgos, sorry, Bilbao, they are not going to reach the port. Is that the solution? Well, then let me doubt it. So it's not an attractive alternative. It deeps down the isolation of the tracks. The isolation in the Ibbeic Penintsula, of course, gives no guarantee for ports and airports, because it guarantees access, and the times mentioned are not real times. Besides, the effects of the land were not rightly mentioned. I have the feeling that it is a proposal that on paper works, but that has in itself aspects that are incompatible with each other, with which, I understand that we have to... we have to dismiss it. As for the PP's proposal, on some occasion I have heard that the governments of Spain have made very tempered bets on the high-speed train, and in this case, Mrs Larrea, because it seems that you have also been a little imbued with this feeling. We have nothing against the proposal, it's really a (?) something needs to be done, but well, if we have a crucial issue on the table at the moment, as it may be that the European document forgets, according to the proposal or the inquiry made by EH Bildu forgets the connection between Basque Y and Navarre, because it does not bring us too much. That is why we cannot support any of these proposals, because we believe that none of them defend the interests of Euskadi, its economic fabric, its entry into Europe and its connection with Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. The one who hasn't issued any correction, Mistto, Mrs Martín, is your word, Mistto-Vox.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u123	Thank you, Madam President, good afternoon to you all again. A proposal related to the railway connection between Vitoria and Pamplona is presented to us for debate and approval, which logically derives from the high-speed train. The initiative is consistent with the position that the previous brands have maintained of what is now Bildu, and also with the position that marked ETA, mother-in-law of all of them. ETA and its surroundings chose the high-speed train as one of their battle horses. They put all their resources at the service of the strategy of what they called ecotaje, which translated, was the use of sabotage, extortion, and, ultimately, terrorism as a tool to prevent the execution of this infrastructure, under the umbrella of environmental protection. To this end, they spared no resources. They put at the service of this strategy the municipalities, where their councillors and mayors put all possible obstacles to facilitate the urbanization processes, in order to hinder as much as possible the start of the execution works. In parallel, they created citizen platforms controlled by their environment to stir and sow fear among the population, to try to achieve a social rejection that never occurred. There were several terrorist attacks against business interests related to the execution of the aforementioned work. Undoubtedly, the most condemnable of them all was the murder of Ignacio Uría, whose company had strong links to the high-speed train. But the strategy to sow fear about an infrastructure that could be considered strategic under the excuse of environmental protection was not new. It was also used to bring about the paralysis of the Lemoniz nuclear power plant, where several people were killed by the relentlessness of terrorism. The story was repeated again with the construction of the Leizaran motorway, where there were about two hundred attacks, several murders and substantial material damage. ETA, given the success it had had with its previous blackmails in the cases we have mentioned, tried that same strategy as an instrument to try to paralyze the execution of the works of the high-speed train. And among other issues, you, lords of Bildu, reject this infrastructure because you have an integralist mentality and oppose any vestige of progress and modernity. All this framed in this bucolic and pastoral model that they defend for the Basque Country. The traditions must be preserved, but our model is that of a powerful Basque Country, embraced to modernity and connected with the rest of Spain. And in this last section we find the real root of their rejection of this infrastructure. You are opposed to TAV because it is an element of territorial cohesion. It represents an element of vertebration and greater connection between the Basque Country and the rest of Spain. It implies, in short, a greater physical rapprochement of the three Basque capitals with the whole of Spain. This was recognized by ETA in one of its communiqués, warning that the construction of this infrastructure would increase economic dependence with Spain. Therefore, the key to its historic opposition to the high-speed train is its obsession with short-circuiting any link between the Basque Country and the rest of Spain. The rest are mere fireworks, which in their case, of fireworks have had very little. Having said all the above, we are going to make a management tour that has been carried out by the different administrations involved. It should be remembered that the works of this infrastructure began in the year... [[End of tape 58.]] [[LIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... we will make a tour of the management that have carried out the different administrations involved. It should be recalled that the works of this infrastructure began in 2006, and that as of today, they are still inconclusive. The implementation of these by means of a management order corresponds to the PNV, which has been quite poor. We're talking about a 175-kilometre plot, which has had several opening dates. And that, if the planned timetable is met - which is unlikely on the basis of the background - you will see the light in 2027 without completing the accesses to Bilbao and Vitoria. That is, more than 20 years, with temporary accesses, for 175 kilometers; at a rate of almost 8.5 kilometers per year. If we compare it with other high-speed tracks, we get very badly stopped despite the fact that the PNV runs here. This work has been choked on them. They are proving inefficiency, and it is once again shown that self-government is not the panacea to speed up and carry out a minimally clean management. A work whose final cost will entail a multi-million dollar expenditure that will far exceed the initial forecasts, and with a desperate and irritating slowness in its execution. We are faced with a work whose execution we could define as endless history. But far from amending the plan, Mr Sánchez's Government, despite the delays and cost overruns carried out by the PNV, has made a new management order for access to Bilbao and Vitoria. That, taking into account the background, will substantially increase both the cost and the completion of the works. The works of the High Speed Train have been a good example of the competitive marketing that the different governments of Spain have practiced to gain the benefit of the PNV. Vox bets on high speed as a transport element that serves to vertebrate our country, also from a railway point of view. We bet that this vertebration will also speed up with the sections that are still pending, and the connections with Burgos and Pamplona will be executed, so that the railway plot will be closed and completed. We are convinced that the completion of the connections will help to improve not only communications with the rest of Spain, but will be a backbone for strengthening the commercial relations of the Basque Country with other parts of Spain. The TAV will bring us closer, connect us and unite us more strongly with our surroundings. It is essential to complete the railway mesh in the north so that the Basque Country is not isolated with the rest of the national territory. High speed means modernity, progress, progress, vertebration and development. It is time for the commitments to be fulfilled, and for a work that accumulates delays and exaggerated costs to end as soon as possible for the benefit of all Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u124	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u125	Good afternoon again. On the second round, then, to thank the Podemos-IU, for what I think is chiefly because of their contribution, because this study of the game that is involved in the budgets of Madrid, well, some domestic jobs are put together in regard to − speed, as far as product is concerned, and so on. And so I think he's richer. And I thought it rather odd that PSE's speech here, because Mrs. Corcuera seems to know what this informative study will give. He seems to know that the result of this informative study will be negative. You said you couldn't modernize the traditional railway at that point, get high training. And, I don't know, maybe you know more about trains than the engineers do, but I think PSOE has already agreed to put in budgets this informal study, and I think that this informative study should be made. And we'll see what results will be made in this informal study. We'll see. And the three versions will be compared: this third, v, of the common railway, of the ordinary railway-line modification. And in that sense, we're also told here, Mrs. Lete said it's not the third burn, but it's possible to put it on. If the informive study says that we have to put a third rail and that it's convenient, why can't we put it? We don't have a problem with that. What we think is a crazy thing to make a new platform for us is that it will not be connected with those seas, or by crushing the Sakana and the Plains. You mentioned the Arakil River. Did you see how often the high speed train crosses the Arakil River in the midst of the Plains? Maybe two kilometres, six miles, he crosses the river Arakil seven times. So it looks like... You said: "Now we won't change our plans because you say so." What's the plan? What's your plan? We don't know. The works of 16 years, and we don't know where the high-speed train will go to bind the Greek Basque y and the corridor of Navarre. That's the problem. There's no plan. It's a jartzen geranium den zalantzan sarearean aldaketarena. Ezkerrak ekarri dudan Pernando Barrena, gure eurodeputatuk sartutako gallerari egindako weretzuna. Mrs Valean's answer on behalf of the European Commission, 31/3/2022. Adina Valean from Europar Batasuneko Garraio Komisionatua 2019tik. "The Commission confirms on the basis of information provided by Spain, that there are currently no plans to build a new high-speed line on this stretch by 2030. Therefore, according to the Spanish authorities, the Commission has proposed to replace the planned Pamplona-Vitoria high-speed line with the existing conventional line. In the context of the proposal for a Regulation on the Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European TEN-T transport network, the Commission has proposed a revision of the maps of the basic and global TEN-T networks." Hori da lehen erakutsi doubt mapen alderaketa. "Only very limited changes have been proposed in the basic network, given the importance of its completion in less than ten years... [[End of tape 59.]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the comparison of the maps I've shown. Very limited changes in the basic network have been proposed, given the importance of completion in less than ten years, i.e. 2030. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Orine art ez dut esan zuk esan ez duzuna, badakit. Ikusten's dead. Esaten duzu: "Ez, ez. Bakarrik atzeratu da". Entzun orin zer esaten duen (...) andreak: "However, when the Member State concerned no longer provides for the construction of a new high-speed line, the commission has replaced that section with an improvement of an existing conventional line". So ask PSOE what he's got to say, what he said to the European Board in that draft, what's not a draft; Please don't preach this. Then, in truth, we believe that you must hear what the European Union says, what the unions say, what the people say, what local entities say, and I really believe that you ought to do for this more social and recerative model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together, Mr Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u127	I am now. Alone, too, I've said it on the first round, but to thank Fernandez de Betoulo too. We agree on this point. Look, I didn't know this explanation from Ferdinand Barrena. So we collect EH, together we side with Podemos-Uuerda Unida and the European Commission for this proposal. We'll see how this picture stays. I was told it was harmless, wasn't it? We make political proposals, such as yours, and those of Mrs Corcuera. I haven't given all the answers. I have said that this informational study incorporates a number of things that have just been explained as well. Technical proposals will be made by the technicians who have to make safe proposals. Is the VAD harmless? You are Gipuzcoana, you said it this morning; you know the effects in Gipuzkoa of TAV. What we are proposing is a conventional high-performance train from Gasteiz to Iruña. And that's defending Euskadi's interests as well. That's it. I do not know what you were implying, that others do not defend the interests of Euskadi. Defending the interests of Euskadi and Navarra is defending the interests of the territory, taking care of the environment, having a social train that communicates our peoples and our cities. That's defending Euskadi's interests.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u128	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The Basque Popular-Ciudados must not speak. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u129	Let's see. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, our position, that of the Basque Socialists, is that there is a corridor that connects Pamplona with the Basque Y at high speed, and that does not lead to the exclusion of the necessary update of the current corridor, which is the commitment of that budget appropriation that appears in the State General Budgets of 2022. That is why I was telling you that, in our proposal, in the second point, it is inclusive. That yours is exclusive. You want the conventional, not the high speed. And we say that the Government cooperates in the studies for both areas; that is what we say. Of course, I didn't say not to go to school. I'm no smarter than anyone else in this forum. I told him what I told him, and he also has the record to corroborate it. As regards the revision of the TEN-T regulation, we have already made it clear that in no way excludes the connection between Pamplona and Basque Y at high speed in the extended phase network. Extended phase network, ending on 31 December 2040. Of course, it's just, you told me about the basics and the globals. Come on, what about the middle one? The 40's? What is it, moreover, that is precisely the high speed, which is expressly established? Well, look, today the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu has served us at least the Basque Socialists to highlight the importance of the commitment of the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, to advance in a viable technical solution that achieves the agreement of all parties for the connection of Pamplona with the Basque Y. Today, your initiative, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, has served us Basque Socialists to reclaim the high speed for Euskadi in our internal and external connections, with other autonomous communities, and even with other countries, with Europe. We regret this long period in which no progress has been made in defining that connection between Navarre and the Basque Y, but, as the saying goes, it is never too late if bliss is good. And it seems that, shortly, in the words of the minister herself, before the summer, this matter will be unblocked. A compromise, together with the statement by the President of Navarre, Mrs Chivite, to agree with the Basque Government on the best solution for connecting the high-speed train, and that the debate on the solution is a technical debate, demonstrates the relevance of the agreement between the parties, taking into account the environmental and economic impact for the best technical solution. We hope that this agreement will arrive as soon as possible, based on the technical complexity of the solution, the need for technical feasibility of the decision and the need to involve the agreement between the parties. That is why our second point in the amendment called on the Government to cooperate with the Ministry in all the studies necessary for the improvement of the railway networks affecting the Basque Autonomous Community. This is particularly important, especially when the Basque Socialists are concerned and concerned about progress in responding to the needs of the Basque and Navarro executives, which are needs with economic, social and territorial cohesion implications that affect all Basque citizens. And Mr. Martínez Zatón said that his initiative added... well, that adding something was difficult, wasn't it?, to Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal. Well, look, it's hard to understand that you, in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, presented an initiative on this same issue a week ago, when Bildu had it since February, which had registered it since February, and which moreover does not accept them -Euskal Herria Bildu has not accepted them - the accumulation of the initiatives and they have had to withdraw it. That's hard. And then, they play strategists, and distort data and documents for their partisan purposes. Therefore, I, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, agree: we have to listen to trade unions, we have to listen to the citizens, we have to listen to the administrations, we have to listen to the technicians... To listen, you must listen to everyone. But the decision is made by those who have to make it, those who have the skills and those who have to make them. That's the point. And there is the political responsibility of the administrations, who come to an agreement... [[60th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 61.]] ... who has to take it, who has the skills and who has to take it. That's the point. And there is the political responsibility of the administrations, which come to an agreement, they will make a decision, at least with the greatest possible institutional consensus. It's not going to be easy, but based on technical issues. And that's the important thing. Listening has already heard 10,000 allegations; they are not minute sins in any work, and less in this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Lete, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u131	Good afternoon again. I explained our correction on the first round. I remarked that Navarre and Y Greek are important. A few alternatives, at least two (I see it? ), la h y la v, on the table, and they examined at its moment, and we have business on the table without giving up. In this second round, I would like to focus on the reasons why we cannot share anything that has been said here or almost nothing that has been said here. I have not ridiculed Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I have said that he is not approved. Of his initiative he says it now, in the initiative he didn't say it. And I point it out again, it's surprising that he proposes to change a plan, a PTS, simply with something that is not yet firm. No more. In any case, this document talks about basic network and expanded basic network. It gives two different deadlines, but does not state that the runner will not be made, does not state that the knot Y Grekoa and Nafarroa is not in Ezkio or Vitoria. And Mr. Martinez Betoño told me what it is... that why you can't defend different interests. Evidently, what I am questioning is whether those interests of Euskadi can be defended with a Zaragoza-Logroño axis. That's what I've called into question. Nothing more. It should be noted that the European document continues to talk about basic network, it continues to talk about expanded basic network, it continues to talk about the urban nodes of Euskadi, the Metropolitan Area of Bilbao, Vitoria and San Sebastián. The ports are still being talked about, the port of Bilbao is still being said to have a basic character; and the airport is also said to have a basic character. All this is reflected in the European documents, and that has a commitment to infrastructure development with it. With regard to the proposal and the safety of the proposal that Elkarrekin Podemos initially made to us and that we have then seen that Bildu has ratified, for I again incited, it was harmless, intentionally harmless. It is intentionally harmless because it tells us about the third thread, because I guess your electorate doesn't like to talk about it. And yet here we have heard that it is another proposal, that it is another possibility. Well, that other possibility, too, has other major repercussions, which in the studies that were carried out at the time and which the Government of Navarre also carried out, indicated the great affection it had for the river, the territory, the space of particular agrological interest, the roads and the deviations that this entailed. In the maritime Navarra of Tomás Urzainki, they say that in the British Museum, I read the other day that in the British Museum there is a document of 1190 in which it says: "The land of the King of Navarre begins in that port, called Larkue, and reaches the municipality of Castro". Well, that maritime Navarra may be Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and without having any intention of entering into territorial conflicts, what I do believe is that our urban nodes, our ports, our airports, bring to the Mediterranean Corridor an exit to the sea, an exit to Europe. It brings us this way out to Europe, and in any case, it gives us an area of work for our industry, for our economic development, which we cannot despise. We were told that the track width, with modifications to the track width and route, could reach 220 kilometers. Right now, Vitoria-Pamplona, 52 minutes in an Intercity, 90 kilometers an hour. We will have to develop and modify sections widely. That is why I say that your proposal is harmless. And with all this, well, then, I ratify. I agree that they have not put on the table a proposal that will bring us together and join Europe by rail; that they have not put forward a proposal that considers track widths, the different track widths, to be a reality; that they have not put a proposal on the table where those different track widths have the possibility of reaching Europe and reaching the different areas; and that they have not put on the table that third thread, the real affection that they can also have on the territory. With all this, our amendment, I understand that it analyses the European mandate, which analyses the European proposal, which analyses and calls on the Government and the Department of Territorial Planning to link this document with our documents and with our realities, and that with this we will arrive at further work more in line with our interests and our need for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. It's true, it's true, I'm sorry. We're going to vote for the middle line, EH Collect and the Podemos-Nozzer Group signed the media. So we'll start the vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 26; the opponents, 48; abstations, 0; white, 0.1 So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote... [[End of tape 61]] [[Start of tape 62]] ... We'll vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u133	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 26; the Abstations, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u134	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "Auterists, EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, and together by way of parlamentary Animations of Podemos, about the state of transitional migrations. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together we'll start with the Podemos-Nozzer plurality team. Mr Martínnezion, your word is for introducing and defending action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u135	Good evening again. At this moment we have an initiative on the state of the migration of the people who are in a trance. And we're facing an act signed between the four legal teams, cooked in the Refushive Corps. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You can't talk, I'm sorry. Esaten nuen sinatutako ekimen hau Errefuxiatuen Taldeartekoan released dagoela. Eta hori, alde battik, eta, noski, pozteko modukoa da, bathe egora bear latza da. Izen ezezagunak: (Tesfit Tentside?), Abdoulaye Coulibaly, Yaya Karamoko, Sohaibo Billa, Mohamed Kemal, (Faisal Kamadut?) Ibrahim Diallo and Abderraman Bass. These are the names and surnames of the nine people who have died in the last year on the border between Irun and Hendaya. Nine people, nine victims, nine people killed by a cruel border management system of the European Union, the European Union of Freedom, Freedom of Movement and the Schengen Area. And this, these nine names, is only the summit of a mountain. A small portion of what takes place within the limits of the European Union. I repeat, inside the Schengen Scope. And on this point, of course, we wish to communicate our entire solidarity to the relatives of the deceased, friends to the nearest, and, in our case, to every person who works at the reception of the emigrants in the Bidasus. And today it is time to denounce the French State, which has been violating international legislation, Community legislation for too long, with its border controls, which are racist, xenophobic and classist. Controls that cause people who want to go to France - for whatever reason they need: that they have family, that they have contacts or that they have hopes for a better future - there they are forced to cross - people, all people, not only black and racialized people - they are forced to look for difficult roads, cross the river or cross the mountain. On a border, moreover, that has memory, that has a citizenship, on both sides of the Muga, solidarity and with memory. And also, controls that, unfortunately - this week, and due to a meeting of a criminal and military organization, although official, which is NATO, which is meeting in Madrid - controls that will be reinforced on both sides of the Muga. But this is not only France, it is not only a political decision, but also; if it is not a consequence of a global system in crisis, an economic system and a climate collapse. Therefore, some of the measures that we have adopted or that we are going to adopt in this initiative are local measures that are correct, but it is up to us to fight and fight for shared solutions at global and European level. Horrexegatik, egia da pozteko modukoa de la Europako asylum politicokaren aldaketaren aldeko jarrera adieraztea Legebiltzar honek. We'd like to add to the solution of Frotex, or at least to the change of the policy of Frotex, a change of our policy, and that of Sustitición por un cuerpo civl de emigrants y de salvamento humanitarium. But it's a pleasure to the Eusunians, with a vast majority, to express their position in favor of the change in politics. Moreover, because it is a system of protection and asylum that can be modified and which, in addition, has tools that have not been activated so far. And this has been demonstrated by the European Union through the activation of the temporary protection directive, activated after the crisis and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It is a decision naturally dependent on the political will. Why is it not good for Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, or the refugees of the Balkans with the refugees of the Ukraine? Because we must also denounce that Europe, which the European Union better said, did not comply with the quotas established by Syrian refugees, but closed borders, repressed, removed from the sea their rescue ships, criminalized the ships of humanitarian and solidarity organizations that continue to rescue and created the one that I have already denounced, the European Frontex police, with a huge budget... [[End of tape 62]] [[Start of tape 63]] ...humanitarians and solidarity who continue to rescue, and created the one I have already denounced, the European Frontex police, with a huge budget. Meanwhile, prisons called detention centres in Lesbos, Greece, Libya, the CIEs continue, and walls and fences have increased throughout the European Union. And once again, and thanks to the work of so many people who have been able to have and arrive at port, once again, thanks to Aita Mari and to all the people who collaborate with Aita Mari and with all the rescue ships in the Mediterranean. Therefore, I repeat, I am glad at least to agree within our limits, and also to the need of the reform of the ascetic system, to agree in several pretty things which ought to be taken within our limits. And we've just inserted some things in action, but some things, we think, remain pendente. Housework remain unfinished. The Basque host model that this Parliament approved already in 2018 needs more means, as does the Basque system of social services. Because they're not two separate things. The social standard, institutional coordination, universal health care, rooting reports, all this is urgently needed to improve. Just as it is urgent to provide the Basque pact with means and resources for migration, such as social organizations or municipalities, which are managing many of these measures are calling for. To develop once and for all - there is not the counselor, but I hope that it will reach - the Basque strategy against sinogarism. Ezin dugu onartu, Ezin dugu onartu gure kaleetan ikusten duguna. Trantsitoan daviden persononetarako errekurtsoak daude, gehiago behar will say sure aski, bath daude. Baina, aldi berean, hemen generate nahi directzako baliabide, bilbid age errekurtso lack agerikoa da. There is therefore a need for leadership, means and coordination to avoid street situations. Reception and inclusion, taking into account the needs of individuals and not the needs of the administrations that have to meet them. Because the administrative division that we have in Euskadi often serves as an excuse, as a parapet, not to give quality care, to include people in street situations. And also in the Parliament, in the Intergroup of Refugees, the Intergroup of Colombia, the Intergroup of the Sahara, in the Commission on Human Rights we have heard tearing testimonies of applicants for international protection who are forced to an endless yincan of administrative procedures for which they do not have enough help. We must be protected by a political and ethical engagement, because we are a confederate people, and because the means are also in our country. Fighting to change the migration policies of the European Union and also the machinery of the states. As I was saying, we have heard very harsh testimonies that have told us all about it. And, therefore, we have to put all the necessary mechanisms in place. In short, I believe that this enterprise follows the course of protection, but, I repeat, it requires more resources to furnish in the streets and in the streets all the people and institutions which emigrations the emigrants. And I think this initiative is registered between four parliamentary groups, and also to defend it, as well as the protection or assistance of society. And so, to conclude, we would like to thank every person who works in anonymous service, even Zehar, the Refux, the various introductions, the Father Mary, Salvamento Maríti, and all the other associations, all the associations that work with the emigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u136	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u137	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again, lehendakari. Good afternoon, Vicelehendakari. Ladies and gentlemen, aratsalde on guztioi. Well, first of all, it's best to start with the main thing. And on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank all the people of all the NGOs and all the volunteers working on projects to help migrants and refugees, and to express the utmost appreciation for the work they do for their generosity and commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, when we presented this initiative just over a month ago, we were warning that the border of Irun had become a deadly trap; and last Saturday, we again came to terms with another tragedy, surely preventable, and that it will surely be repeated again if we do not remedy this unbearable reality once and for all. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is the most dramatic, most painful face of the migratory phenomenon, of that reality we live in. Of that reality there is no other than a lot of people, many people, women, men, children, the elderly, young people, who have no choice but to leave their home, from that life they have known so far, and only do so in search of a better, safer and less uncertain future. And they leave behind everything they have, what little they have, their family, their friends, their land, everything. And the reality is that many of them too have no choice but to flee to survive. We already know that migration is a multifactorial, polyhedral phenomenon, but there are some who have no choice but to flee to survive, abandoning everything they have. Because they escape conflict zones, war zones, violence, poverty, death, human rights violations. And this reality, ladies and gentlemen, has to ask us all absolutely and directly, because we cannot remain impassable in the face of all those people to whom they are escaped, they run out of hope, and they do not see a horizon or a future. And to which, above all, we are not giving the answer this problem requires. Because, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today and in this old Europe, this continent which has brought so much to humanity, there is no common migration policy. There is no common humanitarian policy. There is no common asylum policy. There is no policy, ultimately, based on the principles of solidarity, humanity and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen... [[End of tape 63]] [[Start of tape 64]] ...there is no common asylum policy. There is no policy, ultimately, based on the principles of solidarity, humanity and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, as we say in this joint initiative, the situation at the internal borders, and in particular in Irún, has become absolutely unbearable, and we are extremely concerned. And that is why we need to state and make it clear that as far as migrant people in transit are concerned, it is necessary to understand that what is needed is that there are legal and secure avenues. Because what can't be allowed in any way is that in the migratory transit people who seek a better life, when they believe that they can touch it with the fingertips, with the fingertips, lose it, and find that death from which they flee. Each one of these people – also said Elkarrekin's representative Podemos – is on a tearing road, full of misfortunes. They carry a backpack full of experiences they can't even talk about. All these deaths are a tragedy, a shame, and, in addition, a reliable proof of the failure of all, of the international community. And we cannot allow more deaths, because there are already nine young people dead in search of the future. We have had more discussion of these, and unfortunately this will not be the last; I hope so. But we must continue to insist, because giving a solution to the phenomenon of migration is proof of the cotton of democratic states. It is an ethical and legal issue, and a matter of compliance with international humanitarian law. We must therefore continue to insist that we must design and plan a common asylum and immigration policy aimed at fulfilling the mandate of the right to asylum and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. We must also continue to insist on the urgent need to incorporate humanitarian visas that allow safe access to asylum seekers. We must also continue to stress the need to define criteria and systems for the distribution of refugees within the framework of European countries on the basis of equality, co-responsibility and solidarity. It is clear that Dublin needs to be overcome, and that means that a new system for managing asylum and immigration is needed which, among other things, ensures the equitable sharing of responsibilities between the Member States of the Union through a solidarity mechanism. I will repeat to you a statement that we made in December 2020, when we discussed the Basque reception system. For the Basque Socialists - and I believe that this is an issue that we almost all share - it is imperative that we recognize the value of diversity, and that its integration is a challenge but also an opportunity. Because the indisputable reality is that the countries that are most able to integrate are the most prosperous countries and those that have achieved a much more equitable society, which is what we Socialists want for the future. The joint initiative we are presenting poses important duties to the Government, both to the Government of Spain and to the Basque Government. Duties that must continue to be worked on in both institutions. On the one hand, the Spanish Government will continue to work and insist in the framework of the negotiations on the new pact on migration and asylum, and in the reform of the Union's asylum system, on the need for a humanitarian and solidarity response; the response that is necessary. Of course, as it cannot be otherwise, it has to defend absolutely - and it will continue to defend - the defence of freedom of movement in the Schengen area, because, in that sense, we cannot share, in any way, what our neighbouring country does. And, above all, it must also continue to work on the momentum for the European Union to establish humanitarian corridors, which currently do not provide the conditions - as we all know - for establishing such avenues. Because the old Europe we were talking about earlier must react to what is happening. And because it is always convenient to learn from experience. And the Basque Socialists believe that the displacement of refugees from the war in Ukraine has taught us something, and should mark a turning point in the European policy of asylum and refuge in the line we have always been demanding, which demands, as I said, a policy sustained in solidarity with all the people who are seeking protection, as well as among the Member States themselves of the Union. For its part, the Basque Government must continue to ensure adequate reception and care for migrants in transit, by deploying that Basque reception system, as expressly approved by this Parliament. I'm finishing up. We've always said that. We were refugees, ladies and gentlemen: we also had to flee the war. We had to flee from the summary executions, from the violation of our most fundamental rights, and they welcomed us and gave us conditions to survive. So, now it is up to us to respond properly and to give that necessary and sufficient response, in line with that commitment that we all demonstrate to respect and defend the rights of all those who have to travel in search of a better life. This initiative, signed by four groups, as has already been said - and I think it will be approved, at least, almost entirely by another group in this House - is intended to activate all those mechanisms necessary to give that necessary and sufficient response. I only have to thank all the signatory groups as well as the group that I believe will support the favourable vote. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u139	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. Today is the second united initiative of the Refaux team, and the former day, after we had been in Greece, Chios, we had done the terrible state of the refugees there, and the work which the institutions of the Euscali have done without the government of the Euscali, to try to bring people back here. To tell you the truth, we had but little success in our enterprise, but, well, to talk about another success in foreign governments today... [[End of tape 64]] [[Start of tape 65]] ... to try to bring people here. In fact, we had little success in our enterprise, but today we have a chance to talk and applaud another success in the institutions without government: Father Marik of Augusta, who has left more than 110 emigrants at the port of Italy, hasn't he? Today we've brought the second united initiative, and I want to thank Lovene Ipiñazar, Mien Galástegui, and Zag Martínnez, because things have been easy. And we see that we must not go far to see the most violent aspects of migration. The number of those who claim international support has already been greatly raised, and the emigrants already die within the Basque Country. Yesterday, the group of refugees had great emotional and political activity. We saw several resources which have been opened or used for the migrators at Iruno, Irunen−; we were with the board at Irun. Some of these resources are for those who ask for an ass, others for those who travel in transit. We've known a lot of migrators, international sponsors, and we've heard them from their mouths, haven't we? We had Ibrahim yesterday in Toulouse. This young Count of Congo has been here for four months, and he has already been reduced in some way to explain so much to us. He explained to us how he finally managed to get an international support from the Ministry. He told us a lot of things, but he didn't want to talk about why he left Congo. Alexander, the lawyer who defends human rights, the Colombian, told us that he had come after the threat of death. And when he saw that his appetite, if it had appetite, was wet paper, he tried to get his life out of the fruit collector. But without paper, it's not easy; But the Ministry's Web page is not offering appointments for new asses. He'll try to stay in the Basque Country and Sam too. Sami comes from Libya, and Sami decided to leave Libya when he and his family were shooting in the carriage. Sam came in first, hoping to get his family back or bring his family back. And before us, the head of Cehar Refuxia told him that it is almost impossible to leave Libya today, to leave Libya, from the roads within the law. "Ventanias estechas, conciones daraconias, citas que no llegan, papeles que se demoran, protección que se denga." European migration policy leaves you very, but it is very clear that if you are from Libya you can already be a barrel of oil, because if you are a person you will not have easy to enter Europe. And it also tells you that if you're from the Congo, it's worth a ton of cobalt so you can easily enter Europe, because if you're a person things are going to be complicated. That's the way it is. That's the way it is. There are almost 300 million people in the world who have decided to run an international migration process, including offsets, even more. Of these there are 80 million people who escape from persecution or violence. And the climate is already an emergency factor causing the most displacement over armed conflicts. And it doesn't seem like it'll be over soon. According to the latest reports, the cost of nutritive nutritive nutrients, and the want of emigration, will raise these flows in a significant manner. Some of these flows, a few, some of which are of general origin, are already occupied by the Oratis, the Tolosa Centres. At the beginning of 2018, after the confusion, things have improved considerably, but we still have a lot of business to do if we want to be a real reception. We have still a great distance of improvement in material conditions; we have not yet succeeded in securing the resources for all those who need it; And even in the street there are so many left. We appreciate and appreciate each one of those who are asking for international protection, every available resource, but we believe that we really need more. And our request is from here, funk, it's about never to be satisfied with what you do. Therefore, it seems important to us also that the fifth point is important to us, that we should find anima a continer congeiner con a la accidentientiente de la tenación administratora que encuentre y reforzar −specialmente paras vulnerables recurs recurs ex quedamoscerre. Others are taking care of Irun. Those in Irun have not much intention of staying in the Basque Country, or at least not yet. Because it's family, it's language, you know, every one knows his reasons, they're in the hallway. The Basque Country. But in the Basque Country many have found a trap, a mortal trap at the border of Irun, in the river Bidasoa. And today's proposal is especially focused on it. He's looking at these emigrants in the corridor. This proposition was born of the restless death of Bidasa. And when we explained what we were saying to her: We said that because of the situation we knew things weren't easy. And last week the 9th one came. And they're not numbers. But as Angela Davis said, we're not here to accept what we can't change, but to change what we can't accept. Nor can we allow the European migration policy which has rendered it a hell for those who start a migration project in its life; we cannot admit of the militaryization of barriers and walls, of limits; nor can we allow those who have overcome the southern barrier to maintain the policy of all kinds of obstacles and obstacles. Nor can we accept the passages given to the Ukrainian refugees, the worthy reception and attention, which are to mark our standard and our ethical soil, and to prevent those from coming from other countries. We can't accept selective support. If we want to be a real people, we have something to think about. And we can't accept it at all, and it's said that it crosses and divides our country... [[End of tape 65]] [[beginning of tape 66.]] ... if we want to be, we have something to think about. And we can't accept it at all, and it has been said that a limit which crosses and divides our country is a limit that has become criminal. We cannot allow the French State to comply with the fundamental agreements and laws of the international rights, to make illegal hot return, and not to secure the freedom of the motion of Schengen's space. And with this, induce the migrators to cross the Bidas and not to choose the safe roads. Ez dugu onartzen era ultraeskuinak Bultzatzen dituen caproto politicak, políticaka xenofoboak, francziar eta leku askotan europar politicaka, migrazio ohiko politicaka, políticak caprotozkoak bihurtu direnak. Euskal Herrian politica hauen azken biktima, aipatu da, Abderraman Bas izan da. He was drinking azken orduak bear on a laburbiltzen due egora. Abderraman's last hours perfectly reflect the extent to which ignominy, the sluggishness and the vileness of European migration policy, especially French immigration policy, can reach. Because as far as we know, on June 14, Abderraman Baz made a call to his family from France, from French jurisdiction, from Iparralde. But on the same 14th day, Abderraman Bas came to Irun's resort to sleep, to ask for bed. What you're telling us is there's been a hot return. But not only that, but after sleeping, it leaves at eight o'clock in the center, and at eight and a half there is a warning that a corpse has appeared in the river Bidasoa. There are seven kilometers from the resource that manages Red Cross in Irun to the river. He hasn't been walking. There are people who are moving people and taking them to the riverside to pass, and they are profiting from it. But the story doesn't end here. Because Abderraman Bas tries to cross the Bidasoa and dies drowned. And it will, it falls on the edge of French jurisdiction. The French emergency services take Abderraman's body and transfer it to the Spanish jurisdiction. And that's why it's the Civil Guard that takes out Abderraman Bas's body. How is it possible, we wonder, so much ignominy, so much cruelty, so much infamy, indignity or vileness. I'll ask you personally if you're here. We also say here that we're talking about incida, we're asking you to use all the possibilities we can get for foreign relations from the Basque Country, even if you like. We've brought her back today from the request she's made a month ago, and we're more or even louder. And when I see the Oñati y Tolosa and Irungo resources, I want to end up with some words from a member of the Irungo network who put us on the table. And they would say to us: "We all ask you to be political, to be municipal, diputation, fun, state, everybody, to all who are in the corridors, to do what everyone is suffering, to do, to do what he can, to make a little more of their way than he can, to preserve the emigrants." We owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u140	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. President, head of the department, fellow members of the legislature, to those who are in the middle of the morning. Before we begin, as the comrades who have spoken before me have said, I would like to make a recrimination to Father Marori and all the band working behind him. The port has been in the tops of 1,12 people, and, well, at last its end has been accomplished. Asikae, cheer up, congratulations, and thank you for all the work you've done. There are already nine people who have died in the vicinity of the Bidasoa River in recent months. The last one less than a week ago, as has been said. Some die trying to swim, others even on the other side. And they keep trying. They continue to put their own integrity at risk to try to reach their destinations; destinations where their relatives, friends, close relatives await them. We are tired of having to mourn deaths on our borders over and over again. We can't normalize these deaths every two or three months. We are concerned about the direct consequences of the migration crisis on the victims and the families of the victims. Obviously, that is why we are here today in this debate, and that is why we have tabled this non-legislative proposal together. Every death impacts us and demands answers. And our commitment, and also the commitment of this Government, to people, to each person, to their rights and to their lives, led us to present this proposal not by law jointly. Euzko Abertzaleak, Euskal Sozialistak, Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin We can-Ezker Anitza stand on the wall and say that it is well enough to mourn deaths. We must respond to this deadly drama. Let this crisis of migration, which we have long lived, be added to the rapids of the Ukraine war and its consequent refugees. It is, therefore, more than ever a moment to take an answer to this situation. Integral, global, indirect, middle-term, long-term view, which will seek safe paths, humanitarian corridors. That's the key: to encourage humane corridors where life is placed in the centre. Iragaitzazko migration egoeran dazen giza eskubideak bermatzeko, bide seguruak ahalbidetu behar doguz. Eta horrela eskatuten deutsogu proposed in Honetan Europar Batasunari, because the solution is not to articulate concrete measures in Euskadi or in the state; it is Europe that, once and for all, has to stop looking elsewhere. The chief physician of the estate has been asking the Minister Escrivá for seven months.... [[End of tape 66.]] [[LXIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...you have to stop looking somewhere else. Artolazabal salilburuak orin de la zazpi hilabete horrela eskatu eutson Escriva ministerari be gutun batan bitartez. Berak esaten eban, beste gauza batzuen artean, "we want to urge you from the Spanish Government to transmit to the European and French authorities the need to launch humanitarian corridors that prevent new tragedies on our borders, and especially on the Bidasoa River". Orin of the zazpi hilabete, eta oraindino hemen gauz were an itxoiten. Gure talketik, Euzko Abertzaleak talketik, ordezkaritza daukagun instituzio guztietan Espainiako Gobernuari aukera eduki dugun guztietan, éta gaurkoan be bai, migrantaren arloko transferentzia eskatzen deutsogu, premiazkoa dalako. We call for more action and less over-action in the area of migration. We cannot be waiting for another migrant to die again on our borders. That is why the Basque Government has put itself to work, and it does not wait. Even without competence in this matter, this Government is not in a cross-arms position, on the contrary; it works at the foot of the cannon to ensure a dignified reception for those who stop in Euskadi and also, of course, those who decide to stay. Because we must offer what we would like to receive. To all and all, both Ukraine and Morocco. We saw him yesterday in Oñati. And with that premise and that ethical principle the Basque Government is working. Bina errornka honori, askotan esan dogu, ezin deutsogu guk Bakarrik were an emon. They were a partikatuare primitzipioan oinarritutako migration politicikak behar doguz, European age Statuan. We must promote within the European Union, as has been mentioned, a reform of the common European asylum system, based on the principle of shared responsibility; that it guarantees the right to international protection of all migrants in transit, with the main objective of preventing deaths and disappearances. Eta ha denok batera egin behar dogu. The threat of fascist, racist and xenophobic speeches is on the street. It is even in some institutions with the emergence of political parties that still treat migrants as a threat. And we can't tolerate that. We're talking about vulnerable people, fundamental rights, we're talking about lives. Moreover, we are seeing and living that migrants, as has been mentioned, mainly and mostly black people, are being treated completely discriminatoryly at our borders by the French police. It's a reality we can't hide. In fact, this has been denounced by the Basque Government's Directorate of Migration and Asylum in all the forums in which it has had the opportunity to move it. And we're joining that denunciation. We therefore believe that it is necessary to transmit to the European authorities, especially the French and the Spanish authorities, that they establish shared mechanisms to avoid any form of discriminatory treatment on grounds of race, colour, origin or identity. And in the meantime, for families, life for friends continues. As long as they wait for answers and precautions, people die in Bidas. Last one, five days ago. We need the answer to this reality. Because behind all these emigrants the families and the friends of the people are people who wait for the arrival of these emigrants. Help, answers, explanation requires. And this may be in consideration of the dotage, which, in the other proposition of our own law, demands from all officers of different institutions, that the land of the dead is eased of the country of the Euscadians, and the cost of which is taken with the hands of the administration. It's very important, I think everyone agrees this way, we all lose a family, a friend. It's very important that a group of people, an agent, an institution close by, would give you that heat and help you out of all the tramites. Yesterday the uncle of this boy who had died at Bidas came from Barcelona to make a settlement for his body. And he himself was the head of migration and of Asilei, the Shabier Lerret, the commander of the company all the time. And he would take advantage of the management of dots to thank and congratulate Monsieur Lágarretta and to all his teams. A lot of actions, even if they're sometimes removed from their professional occupations, and it's because at last there's no competition, it's been considered as personal business, and their personal domain has been conditioned to help these emigrants and to receive a decent and decent reception. So I'm thinking of having a fair dot on the director and his teammates to thank him and be happy. To finish, and, thanks be to the number of those who have signed this proposal with the wishes of the Lacedaemonians, Michael, Andrene, and Mireni. Take our time to get a text together at the end of the eulogy. It has been easy, but, well, take up a little time, but I have an answer to such a situation as this in pents that it is very important to lead a text signed by the four groups of this legislature. And I'd like to put that in value because it's a text that's born of consent. On the other hand, the eulogists of the eulogy are clear to us; we ought to guarantee human rights by means of doves to protect our lives; it is simply from whence they come, that is to say, to give us friendship and dignity. dejemos de lamentar muertes injustas, sigamos laboro para vantanza el derecho a la vida de statuses personas, y hagálo conjuntamente. We're going to keep going. That's the way it's done, and we're gonna give you all the support from our team to keep working on that line. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u143	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor... [[End of tape 67]] [[68. Start of tape]] ...president, lehendakari, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, the People's-Citizens parliamentary group shares the spirit and almost the whole letter of the non-legislative proposal that is before us today on this last item on the agenda. Some speeches are already something else in relation to the issue, because sometimes a totum revolutum is formed with an interesting object of debate or denunciation or positioning, if not some take advantage of a question that seeks to share, seeks more to disagree. And, of course, there are those speeches that we do not share. In any case, I repeat that what is the spirit, what is the letter, practically in its entirety, of the non-law proposal, because we share it and will vote in favour, except for point number seven, where we have an amendment, of the initiative. I am not going to repeat what has already been said, but I am also going to recognise the seriousness of what is happening in this case on the border, on the Bidasoa River. We talk about human lives and the unfortunate loss of human beings and that, of course, let us hope that it will not happen again, that the tragedy will not return, of course, to being part of the news that has been quite common lately. I have a question to say. I do trust the European Union. I do trust the European Union, Mr Martínez, Mr Otero, I do. Mr Martínez has attacked the European Union, also against France, he has also taken advantage of doing so against NATO, which in this case, I do not know, (?I do not think it comes very far, but in any case, I think it is now part of the speech of the moment, which I say again, I think it is out of time, but I do trust the European Union. I believe that the European Union, despite the difficulties, which are many and very important in this area, of course, of migration and in others, but despite these difficulties, is fortunately the area of freedom and social justice, despite the difficulties, most important and most powerful in the world, although some weigh them down. But, in any case, with many difficulties, right, and with a lot of pressure, I believe that solidarity is there, it is there, in an approach that is not theoretical, that is also practical, I say again, with difficulties and with errors or with shortcomings. And that solidarity, which also represents the European Union, of course, is not perfect, much less, and we know it and we can say it and we say it in initiatives of these characteristics, but it exists, it exists, despite all, despite everything, or even though some deny it in relation to the issue. When I heard Mr Martínez, I thought we were in another debate at a certain time. And in this case, when Elkarrekin Podemos and Left Unity intervenes in Parliament, we wonder who is in the Government of Spain with Sánchez. We ask ourselves, and we know that theoretically there is an answer, but practically or effectively or usefully for citizens, who is also on issues such as this, also on issues such as this, where we have to create spaces of trust, where we have to increase freedom, understand that there are difficulties. For everything is like a kind of withdrawal, everything is a kind of free criticism, ideological criticism, and not practical reality. And that's why... you talked about NATO. For NATO has its time right now, but it also works and works for NATO so that there are no migration policies or crises like that of Ukraine, it also works for that, and we understand that many Europeans and many countries give it the mandate to make that happen, but in any case, it draws my attention. It also draws my attention to the fact that when there is this approach on the part of Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left, the Socialist Party remains silent, although I understand that neither must we enter into provocations. But, well, we knew the initiative at first when it was signed. We share it, we share it, we share the fact that the Basque Parliament expresses its concern about what is happening in the humanitarian crisis in Irun. Indeed, we share it, and of course we will, as we have already done in the hands of the Basque Government, make every effort and reach out for this reality to be neutralized as such, with tragedy, and we can see that there is no news of these characteristics in the media of the tragedy. We also share the fact that the Spanish Government is urged to promote reform within the European Union, or reforms that make it necessary to improve accountability policies, solidarity policies, of course. And I am glad that this initiative, because it also contradicts somewhat the discourses of mistrust, contradicts, because in the end it is necessary to turn to those who have the power, to those who have the ability to act, and the policies that can be effective despite the difficulties. In other words, there is a little contradiction between the catastrophic discourse and the need to look at the elements of effectiveness, such as the European Union. Point three also talks about... considers it necessary to transmit to the French, Spanish authorities, who attend to the need for measures to prevent the tragedies on the Bidasoa River. I think that's the way it is. In view of the drama, it is good that all the measures be put on the part of all the governments, and in that sense, that we should do so from an autonomous community, of course, which is where Irun is integrated, and logically, we are concerned, and I say again, and we also support action and work, and I recognize the work of the Basque Government or together with non-governmental organizations, with the Red Cross, with other entities on these issues. That is, that the fact of continuing to work to avoid that drama, with all that that entails, is fine. Also that... [[68. End of tape]] [[Start of tape 69.]] ... with other entities in relation to these issues. That is, that the fact of continuing to work to avoid that drama, with everything that it entails, is fine. Also, continuing to talk about the creation of humanitarian corridors is fine. It is quite clear that this must be improved very much. We have spoken, it is a desideratum, and that, logically... we hope that the states too, in that area of understanding that we are in a space of freedom and solidarity, the states will be able to continue to build it, right? We are not, of course, going to put stones in that direction; that is, to work in that line. Point number five also talks about continuing to ensure adequate reception and care for migrant persons in transit, facilitating what is already being worked on in the intergroup, what is being collaborated, what you... unfortunately, I couldn't attend the meeting yesterday because I had other parliamentary responsibilities... But it is very clear that what we all know about work, so it is very clear that it must be strengthened. I do not know whether to call it a Basque host model; it is possible to do so. Let's do the title anyway. Let us talk about work, European model, work, human model of people, and avoiding dramas. If that is called a Basque model, then the denomination is fine. But, well, in any case, it's a line of action. Of course, we will vote in favour of point number (six?), because everything goes through collaboration. The interinstitutional collaboration, and it is very clear that between the Spanish Government, the Basque Government, the outlaws, those involved, also with the European Union, also with the French Government... So that the rights of these people are not violated. Because we are seeing that yes, that, unfortunately, it is. What we no longer share, and that is why we have amended, is point number seven. Point number seven is a bit of the understatement to the initiative. Point number seven is the underborn to the initiative. We are putting forward an important, referenced initiative for the care of migrants, and point number seven is already with the mantra, isn't it? I mean... "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to demand from the Government of Spain the transfer of functions and services". The transfer, that's it. Point number seven, for us, remains. It's over, because the important thing is the other thing. Because if there is interinstitutional cooperation, if things work out well in the Basque Country, in the Government of Spain, in the European Union, then that will be the fundamental element, won't it? This must be the key, the transfer. For Mr Martínez or Mr Otero the transfer must be the key to ending NATO, with France doing things right, with the European Union, and for everything to go on wheels, right? Well, we've been disappointed by that point number seven. That is why we have tabled that deletion amendment. It is quite clear that the debate on the transfer has not really emerged in this GNP. He didn't come out because, it's just, he didn't have to go out; someone mentioned it in the end. Of course, the Government somehow had to put it on the table, but that is not the effectiveness of the policies that we understand must now be taken as a matter of urgency, and in a clear way. It is not a formative debate. Point number seven is not a matter of form; it is a substantive debate. It is not a question of competence, it is a question of cooperation, and in that sense, if the partial amendment, the abolition amendment, is rejected, then we will ask that point number seven be voted on separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u144	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the line that has no corrections, Mistto-Vox, your word is yours, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u145	Thank you again, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. There is an important issue that flies over this migration crisis, and it has to do with the sovereignty of nations to make their own decisions, to decide what their border policy is. In this case, the proposing groups question the attitude of the French authorities: they regard it as discriminatory on grounds of race and origin. They claim to be in violation of the European Union's migration law. They pass judgements without trial, and say: "It is the control measures imposed by France on its border with Spain that causes the death of immigrants on the Bidasoa and on the tracks of the train". How daring you are. Obviously, if they had no problem treading French soil, they wouldn't try to swim across the river. And if they enter France with a health card, an arranged standard and access to social assistance, then even less risk. But that is neither feasible nor reasonable. The French authorities have decided not to allow access to their country from Spain to immigrants in an irregular or illegal situation. And we can do nothing but respect his decision, even more so if it is within the framework of international legality. This is an edge of the problem we are discussing today. Another lies in the reason why you come all the way here in search of a dream that, on too many occasions, is just that, a mirage that you help create with the promotion and diffusion of a false reality. That of a welcoming society in which you can realize your dream, in which you can find a better life. The tragedy begins to take place far away from the Bidasoa, and it is no stranger to what we know as the "effect called", and which you resist to recognize. These people don't come to a land of opportunity. Yes of fierce competition, in which many of them will be forced to seek their lives almost in any way, because on the ground they find that the expectations are false. This false promise of a better life encourages thousands of people to embark on cayucos and face extremely dangerous journeys to the Spanish coast. Increasingly, and increasingly, the mafia who trade with and take advantage of people are more powerful, with fatal consequences for people with very limited resources and in situations of maximum vulnerability. Therefore, it is not acceptable for you to shake all kinds of responsibility, to address your accuser finger to the French authorities, to the European Union and to those of us who advocate stricter border control in order to avoid tragedies like this, and also to minimize the problems that illegal immigration creates in the towns and cities of Spain. We are aware that bringing them the opposite will awaken their angry manifestations, their insults. I have no doubt that... [[End of tape 69]] [[Beginning of tape 70.]] ... generates in towns and cities of Spain. We are aware that bringing them the opposite will awaken their angry manifestations, their insults. I have no doubt that they will end up accusing those who do not communicate with their policies of being guilty of what is happening on the Spanish border with France, in the Mediterranean, in the Atlantic and anywhere else in the world. It is not the responsibility of the State that many of the people who arrive irregularly in our country should be condemned to work in a submerged economy, including to violate our legal framework in order to obtain sufficient livelihood to live; generally, to mallive. We have provided ourselves with a legal framework that must be respected, which everyone who lives in and with us must comply with. It is your responsibility the frustration of thousands and thousands of people when they find that what you sell does not correspond to reality. It is also their responsibility that people of all kinds and conditions obtain papers without strict prior control. Border control and the exercise of national sovereignty is neither xenophobia nor discrimination; it is internal security. It's working for the interest of the citizenry. And here comes, in full, the paper of two of the proposing groups. It is no less a matter than PSOE and We can urge the Spanish Government to promote in the European Union a reform of the Common European Asylum System. And it is not because both parties are the Government of Spain. I have not just understood this exercise, which is becoming increasingly commonplace, of urging oneself. Moreover, on this occasion they seem to agree; something extraordinary they could take advantage of. They might as well take off the phone and make a call to check the availability of their colleagues in Madrid to lead a movement in the sense they claim to be defending. It is in your hand to propitiate what you put forward in this non-legislative proposal, but from within, for Sánchez and his company to promote a radical change in the European Union's immigration control policy. For Europe to become a continent where thousands and thousands of illegal immigrants with rights, of course, but without duties. This is his model, a model that, of course, Vox does not share. And so, it reached the transfer point. Now about immigration for the consolidation of your Basque model, one more, plus one more model that we need. They have been insisting for months before the public on the need for the Basque Government to assume the powers of immigration, which today is held by the central executive, who should continue to manage them, at least at Vox's judgment. They incorporate the demand for this new transfer into their non-legislative proposal, presenting it as a solution to the drama that is being lived in Bidasoa waters, as if such transfer were to condition France's border policy, which I insist, its powerful reasons for acting as it is doing. In Vox we do not trust a government like yours to manage a matter as sensitive as immigration. In their proposal they talk about providing the standard and the health card to any illegal immigrant, and not just to those in a situation of greater vulnerability, which can contribute to aggravating problems rather than providing solutions. What you are putting forward is a task for the countries that make up the European Union, supervised by the European institutions. We have already found that taxation does not work, that the sovereignty of each nation must be respected. It is necessary to take into account their special circumstances, which must respect their particular interests and those of their inhabitants. But, well, knowing that your ears are closed, I would like to highlight in this House the deep regret that any tragedy of this kind is causing me, in the Bidasoa, in the Straits or in the waters of the Atlantic. No life must so determine, and from here manifest my deepest pain before this. But I do not believe that the transfer of competition or the unconditional acceptance are the solution to what is happening. His policies don't work, we're seeing him. Not all people who emigrate do so for the same reason. They don't all have the same intentions. It is not reasonable to put an end to any kind of control of immigrants, whether or not they are in transit. More state involvement is essential to end, for example, problems in countries of origin. More cooperation, so that people live where they want to live, which is usually in their home country. Total battle against the mafias, and some rationality in the countries of destination of immigrants. Our nation is not a paradise, not even for those of us born here, we have studied here and we work here. And, of course, it is even less so for people who arrive without papers and without work. Moreover, since Vox, maximum respect for the human rights of all people. Maximum commitment in the fight against vulnerability, poverty, war and the violation of rights, but also, maximum respect for the sovereignty of peoples, in this case to that of a neighbouring and developed country such as France. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u146	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. At the time of the answers, Martíni, together Podemos-Nozzer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u147	I know you're tired, and so are I, but some things have been said, I think−, and they must be solved. I think I'll put it back into value what we've signed between the four parliamentary groups, and then we've made our addition, not just ourselves. And if we talk about beautiful migrations, we need to talk about the causes of migration too. And that's why, and not just because I didn't talk about it, I've been talking about OTAN, I've talked about the wars. Eta, Carmelo Barrio jauna, I recommend if you can read Francis' message on World Migrants Day, where you will see him saying, very clearly, "Look, developing countries continue to exhaust their best natural and human resources for the benefit of a few privileged markets. Wars affect only some regions of the world. However, the manufacture of weapons and their sale is carried out in other regions that then do not want to take care of refugees who have to leave the countries in conflict." Horrexegatik, hitz egiten dugu struktura militare buruz eta beast gauza beat buruz, koherentzia politicikoa, koherentziari buruz. And I am going to try to do this with a debate that we are going to have in a few months' time in this House, which is the next Euskadi cooperation law, which incorporates in the preliminary draft a provision derogating from the law of the Charter of Solidarity with the Depleted Countries, where the public financing of arms-producing companies is prohibited. In which, if we have agreed these four parliamentary groups in the reception policy... [[End of tape 70]] [[Start of tape 71.]] ... we have agreed these four parliamentary groups in the reception policy, we believe that we also have to work on policies, on agreeing on policies and on the causes of migration. We have created pacts in this Parliament on the 2030 agenda, on climate change. There are two, climate change, one of the biggest causes of forced displacement, 64 million people so far, and it warns UNHCR that if it does not change it will be more than 1 billion. We therefore believe that we have a common field of agreement on this point, but we have to go to the causes as well. And many of the causes are in our economic model. And that is why we need to be consistent with the set of legislation that we have adopted and that we are debating in this Parliament. I repeat, there are agreements, there are need of means here, in the house, to improve the things you do, Mr. Otero has also said, and there's more to be done. And I have never dealt with the Socialist Party, let alone Mrs Gallástegui, at any time with a confrontation. We have differences, logically, as much as we share the Government. And we also have things to do, and I appeal to the majority as well, since it appeals to the powers of the state, to the majority of the investiture, to the Basque Nationalist Party, to the Socialist Party of Euskadi, to EH Bildu and to our group. It will reach an ILP that will promote the regularization of migrants who live and work and live together in the Spanish State and in Euskal Herria with us and with us. I think we have the coincidence, I think we have the conviction, I think we know that it is justice, that it has been done at other times, and I think we have the capacity to do so; because it is the gateway to many improvements for the lives of thousands of people living with us and ourselves. The issue of human rights that has been mentioned on previous occasions must be the flag that we defend in this policy. Because we have been exiled and we have to be a refuge; but a dignified refuge, and a refuge that once we are in the European Union - that we all defend that framework of coexistence - is a dignified life and a dignified coexistence, Mr Barrio. That is why the policies of the European Union must be changed. And about the hurtful message of the far right, of neofascism, in this Parliament, I would like to think it was stupidity, but it is political misery and human misery. Enjoy the moment in this Parliament because we are, fortunately, many more, in a very pluralistic way, those who defend democracy, human rights and the same rights for all and for all, regardless of where we were born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u148	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The Socialist Basque shouldn't speak a word. Gather EH, Mr. Otero, from there is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u149	Excuse me. And very short. Nik you had to beharrekoa esan of the lehendabiziko txandan. Bath, well, yellow barrio, ñabardura txiki pare bat egin nahi dizkizut. You have come down here and tried to entangle us a little bit as if the opposition of Elkarrekin and ours were an anti-European opposition. And no, please, I will ask you not to mix things up, I think we have to distinguish between what is an anti-European policy and what is a confrontation, because we do have with the current migration policies of the European Union, which is what is being asked to change. Policies they're provoking right now. But, of course, you said "it's that you put all your ideology here in all this." And I would ask you what do you think of the policy on external borders and, above all, on the southern border and above all on migration issues, it is a deiodelogized policy? He was telling us we're making a catastrophic speech. Tell me when we can start making a catastrophic speech about the results of European migration policies. From what tens of thousands of deaths on the border, especially on the southern border, we can be talking about a catastrophic policy or a criminal policy. You tell me, you tell me, please. Eta azken kontuarekin bed is, since at the same time duzun gaia, transferentziaren inguruan hitz egin duzu. It is true, for us the seventh point, that demands the transfer, for it is true that we had to make an assignment. We called for the transfer of all competences in migration policy, which is what we believe we should push for. And, of course, it seems to me important that, and seeing the minimum common denominator or the situation - langa, ezta? - of the minimum common denominator we have on this subject, of course it reaffirms me in what we originally wanted: it is that we have more transfers and more competences in migration matters, better; because I believe that we also have a correlation of forces to make migration policies more ambitious, more inclusive, more generous and fairer. And the last thing is, if you mean transferments, or excess, I have said that we are not here to accept what we cannot change, but to change what we cannot accept. And I'm also saying that we can't accept a limit that crosses and divide our country. We don't accept the border. Not just French politics. You have a different point of view, some of them have a different point of view, but our country, our town, the Bidasoa river, like so many other challenges, divides the different valleys. But, Dede Luego, it's not a front. It is nothing but another river which should cross the Euscal Sea of Bidasa for us, which ought to pass freely. We and the refugees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, from there, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u151	Now? I am now. This way, your... [[End of tape 71.]] [[Start of tape 72]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u152	Now? I am now. This way, your permission. I'll only take the word, the PP-Ciudados team has made it around the amendments. You say in your deletion amendment, with regard to paragraph 7, which you have already commented on, that the aforementioned transfer is not part of the urgent needs for the proper treatment of the situation described for the adoption of measures to protect migrants. I asked to delete precisely that point. I agree with Mr Otero. In fact, we lowered that point a little bit. We would ask for the total transfer of migrations. But we believe that this point was important and also necessary, because it is being found that the State reception system is not sufficient and is not responding. And on many occasions, the Basque Government has its hands tied, because because it has no competence, it depends on the Government of the State. I understand – and it has also been commented – that the situation is complicated, it is not easy, but we have to look for solutions. And it cannot be - as Mr Otero said earlier - that there are migrants in transit, that there are migrants, that there are people who have been waiting for almost three years for answers regarding their asylum application, and that they have to travel to Madrid separately too, after all the transit they have gone through to conduct an interview to formalize their asylum application. And if it takes months for them to get in, they can access the Ministry's website to take the appointment. And that's inadmissible and it can't be. Therefore, contrary to what you say in your deletion amendment, our request, we consider the request for transfer, but it is part of the need to take measures to protect migrant people, because this is also protecting migrant people. And I'll end up putting barriro in value because I don't finish our speech like that, by the four groups of people in value, the majority of this legislature, the united text we've got. In the former place, I say, an answer to this doctrine, and need all the force of them, besides the fascist and xenphobic discourses which exclude them. And I'm not going to get in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mr. Barrio, from whom the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u154	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. But, Mrs Ipinazar, the speech about transfers in such an initiative is that it is not appropriate and not credible. And it is not credible, moreover, being the two parties that are in the Government of Spain in relation to this issue: the Socialist Party and the United Left-Podemos. It's just not credible. And so, if we are going to give serious consideration to an initiative of these characteristics that I am going to vote for, except for point number seven, we are going to make it effective as well, and we are going to make it credible. And the point of the transfers is negotiated by Mr Erkoreka or Mrs Garamendi with the minister in office and is moving forward, as on other issues. We have a living Autonomy Statute and a living Constitution, and there are transfers and negotiations, and that is why it is moving forward. But this voluntarism with the two parties of the Government of Spain sitting in this House (...) transparency is a bastion of the initiative. I think you're losing the initiative. In any case, Mr. Martinez tells me that... read to Pope Francis. I am very careful, I am a Christian Democrat and I read to you very carefully. And I believe that where Pope Francis is best and best heard is in Europe - of the world -; it is in Europe where his complaints or criticisms are best understood or where they are best heard. And where if something is done, it's done, it's in Europe. I mean, in that sense, I'm pretty quiet. And when you talk about military structures and NATO again... No, no, I am talking about defence structures; defence structures of our principles, of our democracy, of our integrity in relation to the threats we may have. That is, not structures of attack, nor, in that sense, of offense or invasion. I'm talking about defense structures. And that's a very important thing. And that is something that you, as a member of a party that is part of the Government of Spain, would have to understand and not frivolize in the way you do. Good. And Mr Otero is talking about the fact that I want to lose sight of the issue of anti-European policy. Yes, you are doing anti-European policy, because you cannot come here to say that the European Union is doing criminal policies, because that is not true. That's not true. It's not true that he makes criminal policies. They may be inefficient policies in some cases, clumsy or insufficient policies, but criminals are not. A policy endorsed - with its shortcomings - by 27 democratic States cannot be criminal. It can't be. And that you or you, in this case, as ideological political discourse or Mr Martínez de Elkarrekin We can do. The European Union cannot be accused of criminal policies. Border policies. You qualify border policies. Indeed, they are complicated and mistakes are made, but they are political, they are democratic policies; with their mistakes and they will have to be perfected; endorsed by 27 states, I say again; working on it, and they will try to improve it; supervised by a democratic Parliament, the European Parliament; or controlled, in fact, as we control the action of the Government; and possibly intervened by very important courts - by the Court of the European Union or by the Court of Human Rights. And there they are so that those policies, if they are not implemented or inefficient - and much more if they are criminal - are denounced and punished. So, in that sense, you and Mr Martínez's frivolity with the European Union are not allowed to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u155	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missa-Vox, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u156	(...) and by allusions, I want to refer to the Communist ultra-left. I'm going to tell Mr. Martinez Zatón what a moral filth is, as he says. I could tell you that you are an exaggeration, as Mr Lehendakari very often uses the word. A moral uncleanness, Mr Martínez Zatón, is to come here and in his first intervention, and in the first minute of intervention, to say that the nine people who have died on the Bidasoa River have been murdered... [[End of tape 72]] [[Start of tape 73.]] ... Mr Martínez Zatón, it is to come here and in his first intervention, and in the first minute of intervention, to say that the nine people who have died on the Bidasoa River have been killed by the European Union and by France. I believe that this is a moral uncleanness and that, moreover, you are diluting in all the institutions, the fruit of this disorientation that you are having. He's no longer a winning horse, Martinez Zatón. They're dumb, slingshot. They don't convince anyone anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u157	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. End of discussion, we vote first to remove the popular-Chaulous team of Euscals. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u158	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians, the EH Collect, the Basque Socialists, and together the original text of the lawal proposition which has been proposed by the Podemos-Nozzers. The vote will be scored, if there is no problem: the first six and the seventh. Let's vote for the first six. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 72; the contrary is 1. Abscesions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u159	So they're accepted. And next time, we vote for the seventh point. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters of 66; the contrary, 7. Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-23.u160	So the seventh point is accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at 7:11 p.m.
