ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. Before we start, I remember that 15, 16, and 17 points have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: The question is, "Jon Andon Athunka, Einz Eubertarians, members of the team of the U.S. President and Warden of Security, 2020 to 2020 to 2020 to the Euscadicus Public Security Plan." Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u1	[[Microphone Off spoke]] Congressmen, First Vice President, good morning. The Basque Plan of Public Security for 2020-20-25 period sets a close security as the basic activity axis. It's the edge...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u3	... (policia pattern? ) One of the principal characters is bound to affinity. In the event of relating the plan, it was evident that in the course of the past years steps have been taken in this direction, and that in this legislation the attention was necessary to continue to increase and increase, to strengthen and strengthen the confidence, communication, and interaction of the people? ) with one. In this sense our question is this: What measures your department is taking closer attention to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u4	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mr. Erkorek, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Cuckoo, border houses, and public attention are paid to almost 200,000 people in the year. These citizens, of course, require the attention of the Border for very different reasons. In many cases, it is only in order to make simple and simple administrations, for instance, to demand permission for the minors to go abroad. At other times, however, it is used for more weighty enterprises, for instance, to present an accusation of a crime. But the accusation of Crimes is not all the same: it is not the same, let us suppose, to require a single verification of insurance, or a charge connected with a serious crime which requires long differences, profound and complex. And these last, being the most important, are usually below 40% a year. Until now, this attention has been given exclusively to on-call personnel, who are given special and clear training in research. A group that, by definition, constitutes a small group. And this causes delays in care to occur in times of greatest influx of people, which, logically, cause discomfort and discomfort in people who have been the victims of a crime and who, in some cases, are approaching in a state of agitation, are traumatized or even suffer some kind of functional diversity, conceived in its broadest sense, isn't it? Of course, this must be alleviated; there is a problem that needs to be addressed and resolved. In order to alleviate these potential funnels that are sometimes, in fact, materialized, electronic denunciation will soon be enabled; throughout this year it will be implemented definitively. But, logically, not to eliminate face-to-face attention, as is sometimes thought to be the purpose of electronic denunciation, but to improve it. This, the complaint, the face-to-face, will be divided into two blocks coordinated according to issues that, due to their complexity or gravity, should or should not be dealt with by specialized investigation personnel, so that only serious crimes of complex processing that require complex and difficult diligence will be dealt with by these specialized personnel. This is, in particular, the purpose of a pilot project that we launched in Vitoria in December last year: 47 agents, men and women, all bilingual, of the 29 promotion, have been trained through a short but sufficient module to meet this task. And, in a frankly broad schedule, they pay attention to all those assumptions; to all those care requirements that do not need to be met by staff specialized in research. This measure is giving the attention to greater agility and, clearly, better quality, especially in complex matters, is it not? The rating between today is being very positive from all the groups with which it is said, including the villagers, because they have given a positive rating. However, in six months' time, the project will have a general rating in June. And if this valuation gives a positive result, we shall extend this pattern to all the outer houses, XXX. By the time the promotion agents start out on the street. As we see, service and attention improve, always for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "The question was asked by the congressman at Maddalen Irina EH Collecting, with the minimum waged on the return to the EAE reality." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u7	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. The Spanish Government has agreed to increase the minimum wage. The course is correct, but it's a very small step, and it's very far from 60% of the average pay that the European Social Letter recommends... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... the direction is suitable, but it is a very small step, and it is very far from what the Social Letter of Europe recommends at 60% of the average salary, or from the International Organization of Work, OIT. We could even look at many indicators, but, for example, the index of prices for consumption is enough to see that it is not enough to exceed the structural prevention; or that, in other words, it is not enough to live. And if it's not enough for Spain, then what can we say if we look at the reality here? We've opened a window to fit the minimum pay to reality in 2022, an engagement in that sense. Considering the state of Spain, Mr. Urkullu, do you see the necessary pay for the Euskal Autonomia Erdigo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u9	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Good morning, Mrs. Iriart. You know, you know, that this Unlawal Law, or the RedModick, has no right to make a minimum wage between the average callings of the whole state. That's why both the Jelt Party and the EH Collect has voted for the intervention of this jurisdiction in the Spanish Congress. Nevertheless, in answer to your question, it is in the least possible and desirable that the salary of the workers of Basques and the conditions of labour should correspond to the social condition of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u11	Mr. Urkullu, I agree with you that it is absolutely desirable and necessary. When you answered my question last week, I heard some things you said: You spoke of social cohesion, of diversity, of inclusion, youth, giving, the production of projects, of young men's lives, of solidarity. And that's the question, isn't it? Is the question whether she could live here with 1,000 euros? He said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Do you know what I mean? "Se puede vivir digmemante con 1000 euros aquaí?" We'll have to make decisions, Mr. Urkullu, to make decisions that exceed the margins and demand political courage. You have spoken of restructuring the political state's debates this week, but this is not the joker we could use in the interval, which is not now or is not the case; if we are to give them structural steps and wish to give answers to the people, it is the choices and means to make. Waiting is not an option; waiting is disappointed, as it has happened again this week. This we shall say of the present Government, of the right hand; and that we know of the right extreme, which we have, and which I have. ) Other things. Parlamentu honetan ebaki proprieez hitz egiten denean, erabaki burujabeez hitz egiten denean, Parlamentu honetan burujabetzaz hitz egiten nean esaten digute jendeari interesttzen zaizkiola the things of eating. The food stuff? Hauek will say the things about eating, these are the things about eating, and never better said. All economic indicators are twenty percent of the one here in Spain, rent, pay, apartment price, purchase basket. If we look at the people of the United States, or at the Pontevedra and the Basque People, or the Basque People. And this requires its own answer, the minimum pay which is strictly connected with the social and productive reality. A window is open. It could be useful. Now it is time to make use of it, and we have the Basque Council to begin working with it, and the places here to begin with that work and that way. Es una obligación, señor Urkullu, we are under obligations. We cannot talk of social cohesion, of equality, of inclusion, of neglecting life from projects, is an obligation. We have a window of opportunity and we have our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Yes, Mrs. Irriart, you've mentioned it before, and that's how we agreed to accept the budget, so we'll do it: that in all the districts of employment and conversation there should be a minimum pay proportion to the average rent. You mention the act and the use of it, and this adaptation can only be effected by a collective negotiation between the parties of legitimacy. That is to say, by traders and corporations, we must not represent or regulate the capacity of each part of the government or of the legislature. We have tools to facilitate the collective negotiation of Euskadin, our economy, and the situation of the corporations, okay? It is a question of respecting them, and above all of taking part in them and taking part in them. Elkarrizketa sozialeko mahaiaz ari naiz, adibidez, baina zuk ere aipatu duzu Lan Harremanetako Erakundea. I am also referring to our ability to implement a proper framework of labour relations that you have mentioned. This reality was embodied in the interprofessional Basque agreement on the structure of collective bargaining of 17 January 2017. For our part we will continue to work to ensure that collective agreements... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... of the collective bargaining of 17 January 2017. For our part, we will continue to work to ensure that collective agreements and inter-professional agreements negotiated by trade unions and inter-professional associations in the autonomous community have priority over any other sectoral agreements or agreements at the state level, provided that they are more favourable to Basque workers and workers. In this way we want to continue to move towards working relationships that are more adapted to our own reality and fairer in terms of wages, stability and quality in employment. We agree on the need to adapt working conditions to our socio-economic reality by defending an autonomous framework of labour relations, by defending and participating in the instruments at our disposal for social dialogue. Instruments you have mentioned. From the public administration, within the sphere of our responsibility, we are improving the conditions of work and the quality of public contracts. With respect to higher wages, we have always applied the most legitimately; we have added additional contributions to the stars, which in this legislation will be awarded 10,000 jobs in public employments, the precursors in order to introduce social clauses into public contract when we have accepted the law of 3/2016. After all, the best guarantee is a collective negotiation between corporate and union representatives to improve the conditions of work and the state of our economics. It's supposed to be fun, it's supposed to be good. It's gonna be good for the social conversation, always respecting the negotiation skills of the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "It's a question made by María Jesús San José lópez Euska Sozialists to the planetion, Housing and the Chief of Transport, about the social pact of the housing." Madame San José is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Vence Prefect, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. Arriola, good morning. Thanks to the initiative of the Basque Socialists, it has one of the most progressive housing laws in Europe. The Basque socialists defend the subjective right to housing, which makes housing a real right that can be demanded by the courts, betting on the provision of decent and adequate housing for every person who cannot afford it by his or her means. Right to materialize through public rent, through a fair and sufficient financial benefit intended to pay the rent. Socialists are convinced that in order to achieve a fairer and more egalitarian society, we must have a truly significant public housing park for rent, which responds to people who have difficulty accessing the free housing market. And this affordable public rental park must continue to increase it with the construction of new housing, with the capture of uninhabited housing towards public supply through the public programs of mobilization of vacant housing, Bizigune and ASAP, and with programs of purchase of housing and buildings. This action, given the initial situation, requires the implementation of sustained, consistent and resourced housing policies, and in order to deliver effective results requires long-term maintenance. There are no magical solutions to housing. Mr Councilman, you announced at the beginning of this parliamentary term that your department was going to work on the implementation of a social pact for housing that incorporates a great deal of agreement between public, social and private actors involved in this matter. Its ultimate aim is to create a framework that will provide confidence in the future, which will boost and facilitate the implementation of housing policy in Euskadi on the basis of a consensual strategy for the next 15 years. In the current economic and social situation created by the pandemic, and which the confinement has highlighted, many people and families face great difficulties in enjoying decent housing and adequate to their needs, so it is more necessary than ever to have a social pact for housing aimed at the development of the subjective right to housing, thereby ensuring access to decent, adequate and accessible housing for those who lack the necessary resources to achieve it, promoting the social role of housing, public promotion of rented housing and the promotion of rehabilitation, as well as the activation of empty housing. This Social Pact for Housing is one of the commitments of the electoral programme of the Basque Socialists for the autonomous elections that were reflected in the government agreement between Basque socialists and Basque nationalists, which has been transferred to the government programme 2020-2024 for this legislature. This pact aims to create a framework that provides confidence in the future and promotes and facilitates the implementation of housing policy on the basis of the broad spectrum of consensus agreements for the next 15 years. It is proposed that this pact reflect the housing commitments that the public, social and private actors involved are able to agree on their different areas and competences, and all this from a long-term perspective. The Basque Socialist parliamentary group therefore asks you the following question: what steps are being taken to develop this government action? That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u17	Thank you, Madam President, Mrs San José. Indeed, in the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport we have proposed to form a great social pact that will guide housing policies in Euskadi during this decade and part of the next. It is important to note that the Social Pact for Housing is a project with an ambitious purpose: to accelerate the conformation of the subjective right of housing in Euskadi as an effective right. And this requires involving in this commitment all relevant actors, both at the institutional, business, social, and knowledge level. The pact must therefore be more than a mere declaration of intent. We want it to be a collaborative and participatory exchange process in which policies, programmes and actions are agreed and shared among all the actors involved. And, in this sense, private public collaboration... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... in which policies, programmes and actions are agreed and shared among all the actors involved. And, in this regard, private public collaboration and the promotion of synergies is a key factor in achieving achievements. As you know, we have recently adopted the Housing Master Plan 2021-2023 and are in a position to address the Social Pact. We believe that this is an ideal time, on the one hand, because the process of drawing up the Master Plan itself has included the participation of many of the agents who will have to collaborate in the formation of the Social Pact and, on the other hand, because in drawing up the Master Plan itself, although it is a short-term, medium-term planning, it has been based on a shared diagnosis and a strategic reflection whose scope goes beyond its temporary copy. The Social Pact will have a 15-year horizon, and the aim is for affordable public rental to be at the end of this period in 5% of the main dwellings existing in Euskadi, doubling the current percentage by 2.5%, and increasing the supply available in another 24,000 dwellings, and also doubling rehabilitation measures. I remind you that this is not the first time we have discussed such an agreement. In the Legislature of the lehendakari Patxi López, we signed the first great Covenant for Housing in Euskadi, a pact that at that time was a milestone in housing policies throughout the State. We are now in a position to turn that experience into a new covenant. We hope to start with the first meetings in March on the basis of a first proposal for work that we will present to the various actors. Our idea is to draw up an open proposal that will allow the meetings to really be spaces for debate and co-creation in order to ensure that the final text of the pact captures the contributions and, above all, the commitments of all actors. If everything goes according to our forecasts, we hope to have the agreement before next autumn. In short, we want a Social Housing Pact that places access to decent and affordable housing in its rightful place, sets out the necessary measures to deal with it in the medium term in a consensual manner and involves citizens in defining such policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, if you're one of Mi's half-hatred by Podemos, a member of the Anician team made to the president about the future education treaty." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. It's been ten days since he introduced himself into this parliament by the power for the education agreement. And we have been critics with this speaker, because the critical is too general, and also because he doesn't mention one of the most important evils in our education system-that is to say, an unusual dualization of the network, a private network, and a public network. And we see that the present state of things is legitimating with all its evil consequences. We're not the only ones, but we've learned this week that what we didn't think was true, and that even in the government there's no agreement in that matter, and the Social Party has also laid its bet on the table for public school. Gauzak horrella, egyptian slut and Gobernu honek, zur Gobernuak, asmorik daukan eskola publikoari pisu gehiago emateko hezkuntza systeman? If the Government intends to agree on measures to make the public school more important in the Basque education system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. Our intention is committed to our program, and I read it literally: "Adoption of an education law that responds to the future challenges of our educational system and promotes the essential role of public school." It is our commitment to strengthen the educational service by confessing the essential nature of the public euscal school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u23	That essential role sounds like euphemism to me. I think this moment... Sounds like euphemism, to say the least. This moment I think is very important to lay the foundations for the future Basque education system, and I think it is an opportunity, an opportunity to reverse privatizing tendencies and to bet firmly on the progressive development of a network of publicly owned schools. All girls, boys, young people have the right to access... should have the right to access the public network. And it is an inescapable duty also of the Administration, of the Government to offer sufficient public places to satisfy this right. If we look at the present time at the offer of the planned places in the concerted centres, it is superior to the planned places in public centres. For example, and if we look at Gipuzkoa, we see that in most towns where public and private concerted centres compete, the public offer does not reach just 40% of all squares. For example, these are the percentages in some villages of Gipuzkoa for course 21-22: Andoain, 21% for the public; Aretxabaleta, 41%; Arrasate, 34... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... percentages in some villages of Gipuzkoa for course 21-22: Andoain, 21 % for the public; Aretxabaleta, 41 %; Arrasate, 34; Azpeitia, 42; Bergara, 39; Donostia, 43; Elgoibar, 43; Eskoriatza, 40; Legazpi, 45; Oñati, 33; Orio, 40; Oiartzun, 40; Toulouse, 32; Pasaia, 26; Urretxu-Zumarraga, 30; Villabona, 40; Zarautz, 36. Where you see a Basque particularity, the rest of the mortals the truth is that we want it is a renunciation, an absolute abandonment of public education by this government. It is also naive to think that there can be an end to school segregation by treating it as an isolated issue, as if it were not the direct result precisely of this duality, which is exceptional in terms of the titles of educational institutions. We know very well that both elements -- both school segregation and educational ownership -- are concepts that are completely interdependent and indivisible. Ending the segregation that Euskadi suffers inevitably passes by moving towards a greater presence of the public school, a greater presence of the public school, and making it truly, truly, the backbone of our educational system. And, for that, it takes concreteness, measures, mechanisms. The desks of our schools are of all the girls and boys of Euskadi. I'd like to think that I wish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. You have spoken of Euphemism, and you have spoken of too general a language, and the public school you plan may have more weight on the euscal education system. Isn't that universal? Isn't that euphemism? Look, as you know, we've been working on this project for ten months, and education community is being a part of this process. On the one hand, in the business organized by the Basque Education, on the other, in the business with the Department. As you know, a crew was formed here, with the agreement of the teams, in the Parliament, and the contribution of 100 experts was received. As you know, Madam, Madam, our engagements are written, and I will read them to you: To recommend a law of education to the future romances of our education system, to confess and encourage the fundamental role and social character of the public school. And I went on: To honor the law which receives these characteristics, to reform the education system, to improve the stability of education, to advance in eloquence, to guarantee equality, to renew the finances, and increase autonomy to the centres. Our will is to meet with the widest possible consent. There are other months before we have to process and accept the law. After that, this legislature will have a chance to discuss, improve, and decide this project again. On 14 October this Parliament agreed to set up a paper to define the basis for reaching a broad agreement on the future Basque education system. But that must also be done on the basis of existing reality. Let us not forget that the debate is taking place in this House and the Government has not yet received the text. We understand that it is not easy to synthesize into a 20-page document, or whatever it is. And, thanks to the effort of the chair of the committee, all the sensitivities and voices heard. And, above all, identify the points of agreement where all groups can feel identified. However, we have confirmed, also with the educational community, a shared will. We need a new educational framework. And with as much consensus as possible, to help transform and improve Basque education in the coming decades, to advance in equity and to advance in excellence. We have a good basis for departure, will and time to receive contributions - the deadline, here in the paper, has been extended - to adopt the Government's bill. From there, let us not forget that the education law will be debated, contrasted, passed by this Parliament with the participation of all groups and also its own. Let us therefore facilitate a climate of agreement, because I reiterate that the Government is going to implement the programme, more specifically commitment 53, which says: "enhance an equitable and quality educational service from the recognition of the essential character of the Basque public school". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the member of the Ciudadans made to the president about the future of Basque education." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Lehendakari, egun on. I ask you about the so-called draft basis for a 21st century education. I will not question the need to reform education and that educational framework that you mentioned earlier here in the Basque Country, given the results we have. But what alarms us is, from our point of view, the sectarian character of that document. A document that comes after the passage of many people through a parliamentary paper, although you have collected and it seems that you have only heard one or two people from that paper, and after the journey we have all known from that paper to Catalonia, to make a copy and paste of the Catalan linguistic immersion in our land. And it comes, too, after knowledge of such worrying data about education in Euskadi as that half of the pupils do not have the necessary competence in Euskera, although they study all or most of the subjects in that language; or worse, that one in five does not have that competence either in Euskera or in Castilian. And we ask ourselves: how do you learn if you do not know enough the languages in which you study? It's your data. And also the record of his three decades of education management. Subordination of education to Euskaldunization is also, from our point of view, a failure... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...and also the balance of his three decades of education management. Subordination of education to Euskaldunization is also, from our point of view, a failure, lehendakari. And, instead of looking for solutions, you decide to take two twists of nut: the euskera as a vertebrate axis of the whole system, expulsion of the Spanish from the classrooms and close to the concerted teaching, which accounts for almost half of the total of the student, is not the best solution. Therefore, I ask you, lehendakari: how do you rate such a draft basis?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u29	Good morning. You know better than you know that the process of education is very long and the results must be at the end. And if we look at the results, the rate of education-off, of titles, of how many doctors are made. We must consider all this in order to reject all the things you have mentioned. But how do I value the sketch of the basis of education so far? Well, the rating of the work we've done so far is very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u31	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...Lehendakari, you want the euskera as the backbone of education, above the contents. I don't think they recognize the failure to turn euskaldunization into the only goal of education in Euskadi. They are unable to draw conclusions and correct; there is no identification of problems, no diagnosis, no balance, just – let me say so – sectarianism. An entire generation has already been adversely affected by its right to quality education by a wrong policy. A kind of social engineering, with the school to the greatest glory of nationalism. And now, today, with a pact with Bildu, he wants to complete the purposelessness: the unique model, the euskera as the central axis, the B2 level requirement at the end of the ESO, and all happy. And I tell you, it's not about acquiring knowledge or skills; just knowing Basque is what you want. And with the socialists, their partners, questioning, as you have seen, looking at whether or not elsewhere, or acting like you don't like it, but that's the reality. They're wrong again, but we don't want the pagans to be our children or our grandchildren, lehendakari. I will make it clear to you: the Castilian is not the enemy, lehendakari. It's nonsense to throw the Spanish out of the classroom. An attack on common sense, on the right to education of our children and on the future of all. And the concerted school is not the enemy either; it is a legitimate option, with wide acceptance among Basque families and good academic results. It's a free choice. Therefore, lehendakari, persevering in error, betting on imposing more linguistic immersion will only lead to the loss of future options and drive away talent, or prevent other talents from arriving here, to Euskadi. And the Basques back down with a sectarian education. If I may, I will give you a piece of advice – if I may – that Bildu not move the threads of education, lehendakari. And I recommend less trips to Catalonia and more trips to Castile and León, or Finland. Yeah, yeah. To Castile León or Finland, to learn educational excellence. And I also recommend zero sectarianism. Those are the ingredients for a 21st century education. Read it. Read PISA's reports, what it says about Castilian education to those who laugh so much. If we brought him to the Basque Country and not his laughter, we'd better go to education. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u33	Thank you very much. Look, sir, in all the gatherings that I've had in the past, I've taken notice that even during the previous settlements of the − education should be a challenge of the people, and so we have it proposed as a challenge to the people. I am not going to fall into any of the excesses of life; I shall go to life and hold it. Look, on the one hand, the Board of Education and Departments have organized meetings with more than 500 professionals and more professionals, and the Basque Education has organized a number of jobs that have raised an enormous interest. And we'll continue with this hearing exercise. On the other hand, in a group of works in the legislature, 100 experts have contributed to their contributions. but it is evident that education requires a new and extensive compact, in order to continue the service which we offer to families and society. The first consequence of all that is done strengthens our end, that is to say, to agree with a new law of education, to increase the equity and excellence of our system. Education, therefore, is a country challenge. We have a law that's going to turn 30. Our goal is not to pass a law for a legislature, but for a generation. That is why a process organised by this Parliament has been opened, which has been transparent, constructive and open. You have participated, and I don't know what it is based on to say that the contributions have a sectarian imprint, alien to the plural reality of Basque society; your assertion is not sustained. In reality, contributions are a recognition of plurality and diversity. The contributions recognize the co-existence of the public school, which, I repeat, is essential and the school agreed upon in our country. The contributions recognize the asset of having two official languages, and support a model that will allow these two languages to be mastered, and at least one third. The unique and effective model of coexistence between the public and concerted systems will be maintained. In fact, last Thursday this Parliament supported the renewal of the agreements with the network concluded for the next six years. The model that guarantees the ability of families to choose will be maintained. There is no imposition of euskera: 81% of families choose model D of their own free will... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...the choice of families will be maintained. There is no imposition of euskera: 81% of families choose model D on their own, and this percentage continues to grow year by year. The sectarianism that you quote, Mr Iturgaiz, means intolerance, discrimination and hatred, and I assure you that the spirit of this law will be tolerance, integration and coexistence. These principles are a value recognized by the law in force and will be maintained in the new draft that is guided by the objective of advancing equity and excellence, equal opportunities and quality improvement. It is a project that comes to contribute, to add, to improve. The Department of Education will collect, analyse, evaluate and consider all contributions, including those submitted by its group. The new educational pact must be the instrument to enable us to address our future in an innovative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, the popular group of the Ciudadans, a member of Tourism, commerce, and the head physician of the consuls, as to the management of Bonodens." Questions that way, Muriel.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u35	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Look, this is not the first time that a bonodenda campaign has been run from the Department of Tourism, Consumption and Trade of this government. We could understand that there were difficulties in the first campaign. I'm going to listen carefully to the explanations you're going to give, and I'm sure you'll give me information about what's been achieved and what's been achieved... the money that's been inflated into the Basque shops. I come to talk to you about another topic, I come to talk to you about the difficulties that traders are encountering in accessing these bonds, in managing them telematically. I have received many testimonies and I have here at the moment to denounce and to put a voice to all those traders who feel like they are being misrepresented by the department, because they have difficulty managing the funds in a telematic way. The cry of the citizenry, the cry of the merchants, is that they would need, at least, a window of face-to-face attention so that those who find it difficult to manage these bonds in a telematic way could be seen face-to-face, which is sometimes much more humane at a time of difficulty like the one that is living with this crisis, and above all, bearing in mind that the trade sector is a sector that has been suffering for a very long time. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, what do you think is worth the management of the bonds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u37	Eskerrik asko, thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, of course the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has always been concerned and concerned about any of our aid and that it reaches its recipients as soon as possible and as diligently as possible. So far, it is more than 130 million that this department has tried in the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors, and in every aid and measure we have always sought the system, and if any of our measures can be improved, I have always been the first to recognize it. Euskadi (?) Bonodenda began, as you well know, on 27 October 2021 in two phases, one until 5 December and the other until 10 January (?) 31 March 2022. We are talking about 700,000 bonds, with a similar number of tickets that must be individually checked and validated before they are paid. To give an example of magnitude, more than 100,000 bonds were redeemed only in the first two days. The formula to process the program is through an agreement with the Chambers of Commerce of Euskadi, who are in charge of the weekly validation and the subsequent subscription of the commercial tickets. Euskadi Bonodenda was launched with an initial amount of €5 million, 500,000 bonds. But in view of the great success achieved, we decided to contribute 2 million more to the second phase. An extension was approved in the Order of 21 December. And I must say at this point that we are aware that in this enlargement of 2 million, the second payment by the Administration, the Chambers of Commerce, was delayed, given the dates on which it took place. We talked about the tickets for the remittances for January 21 and January 28 and February 4 were paid together on February 11. But we are also talking about the fact that tickets were paid for 1.8 million euros in that month. So I am not going to deny you specific and specific incidents, mainly because of the enlargement of the amount, as I explained to you, but we must conclude that the voucher has worked and has been very welcome. Of the 7 million we have launched for Euskadi Bonodenda, 6.3 have already been used, and as of 11 February all remittances are paid. The following settlement will take place today, 18 February, and if there has been any incidence, and with a volume of 700,000 bonds, there can always be some, I recognize it, and it has been solved in the fastest way and I believe that all traders, and also citizens, have shown their satisfaction with this programme, and we hope to continue with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Your word is the Larrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u39	Thank you, counselor. I knew you were gonna give me data, but I'm telling you about the human part of bond management, okay? I'm going to give you a testimony that says a lot, okay, about a person who's given me permission to listen to what happened to the bonds, okay? Intense audio does.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u40	Ma'am, please turn it off, please, please, turn off that device. Ma'am, please. These animals are not allowed in a control Plene.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u41	Okay. This audio comes to say that a person who has difficulties with computing is not able to manage the collection of their bonds, because it has a difficulty. And when you get to talk to someone personally, you don't get solved and you're told to talk to some family member who can solve the problem. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ...and face-to-face. Because, moreover, we are talking about people, and do not forget that we are here in this Parliament to solve the problems of the Basques. And it's just this. I mean, the broken voice of the person I've put on... Well, I've put in one, but I want to tell you that I've received a lot of messages, a lot of calls from people who need that attention. The data you have given me is good, but, apart from the data, we are talking about people and traders and entrepreneurs, who may be at an age when they are very difficult to access to the administration. This is the reflection I wanted to give you. We're going to have a little heart and soul to attend to the trade as it deserves. And if the merchant asks for face-to-face attention, it would cost his department nothing to offer a window of attention to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u43	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, I think I have already said this in this Parliament: I am very respectful of the parliamentary control work that you do – and I have said it more often – both in the control by Parliament, through your initiatives, specific questions, requests for information – and I think we are a very diligent department when it comes to answering – and in the control in Parliament, which is this debate with publicity. I repeat, you asked what opinion you deserve from the difficulties and delay in collecting Bonodenda's data that traders are suffering. I think I've explained it to him and given him the specifics. I insist, I am very respectful, and you can decide to cloud a project that is being a recognized success. I sincerely expected more than you, perhaps, to ask me about the European funds after you have made those trips to Brussels, or that you put me through the social networks about the funds. I think it's a good time to discuss it here. I could answer that they are a reality; the Next Generation funds, dependent on this department, are already a reality in Euskadi. With an approval of a sustainability plan of 24 million, for tourism sustainability plans in destination; or 5.5 million for sustainable trade and market plans. I was in Zumárraga yesterday watching works that are already under way with funding from European funds. Well, this doesn't ask me, it asks me about Euskadi Bonodenda. Well, I insist again, I, in fact, was aware of this problem at the time of the charge, at the time when a United Left Juntere of the Alava Junta asked me. I asked in my apartment and gave him that same answer. And you know you have my phone open, the department, for any question you want to ask. Then the parliamentary debate that you want (...), for my part, maximum respect, as always.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpology, Pazis Garcia Ortega EH Collectors to the Second Vice President, and the Chief of Staff, as to the necessity of strengthening the Vision." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u45	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. The beginning of the year 2022, with all its crudeness, has shown us that life can still be lost in jobs, that it can go back to work and not go home, and that it is happening. There is no end to mortal labour accidents, between Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzian this year, and January, and February, −, seven workers have died in an accident, from which are three sectors of construction. I mean, almost every week since the year started, a worker died at work. According to the data of Osalan, during the past year, serious work accidents went up 7,1%, and 35 dead jobs crashes, 29,6 more than last year. It's as unacceptable as a serious situation. We can't take this as normal or get used to it. It's time for all of us to start. The motto of placing life in the centre of life has a precise significance in this matter, because it's corporate benefits nowadays that are in the central system of production and working relationships. As shown by the Government's employment strategy, they are a work accident, the last pitiful result of the example of the relations of works based on the extreme preparation at work. In fact, only decent employments and employments with rights can protect themselves from being obliged to work under conditions of security. Your government has just accepted the security and medical health strategy shows the deficiencies that are in functional health. As it is acknowledged in this strategy, we are still unable to say that there is a general prevention in the workshops. It is likewise acknowledged that, although the evaluation of the dangers of the work is generally present in the business, yet this evaluation is extremely general and of very little quality. However, according to Osalan's data, there was no risk evaluation in the 2020s, and on 17% there is no data. It is also mentioned in the strategic plan that the prevention of the dangers of work may occur in mere formalism; The technological transformations which have occurred during the past decades have brought no considerable improvement with the accidents of the work and the disease of the profession. Information on business accidents shows that the preventive system and working dangers are not working properly. In this sense, in the presence of a personal, familiar, social tragedy, where so many lives are lost in the labor centres, this government must go farther than it is now. In fact, in the government, we need clear commitments, efficient measures, and, above all, all the necessary financial and personal resources. And on that road, last June, to the question of the Eucal strategy of the Eplega, the government admitted the commitment to strengthen the inspection of the work. And this engagement is thought to be a priority to strengthen the Vision of Job, the other to increase the ratios of Vision, in order to arrive at the opposite of those that are in Europe. The need and commitment to strengthen the inspection of work is also received in the Security and Health Strategy of Work, and in a motion approved last week in the parliament. So it's not a new commitment, but it's still unfinished. And this is... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... It's part of a legal choice. So it's not a new commitment, but it's still unfinished. And this is the end of the interpelration: To know the designs of the Government, to strengthen the inspection of the work, by increasing the ratios of vision, to attain to the one that is in Europe. The precariousness of employment and the failure to comply with the Occupational Risk Prevention Act 25 years later since its adoption are the main reasons for us to continue to suffer labour injury, so that still today, as has been happening since the beginning of the year, every week a person in an occupational accident dies. This non-compliance with the Occupational Risk Prevention Act will continue to occur if decided action is not taken by his Government. And two are the main lines of action: promoting quality employment, because only decent employment, decent employment, employment with rights can protect against being forced to work in conditions of job insecurity, and, two, effective control and sanctions against offending companies. This undoubtedly requires strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, providing it with the human and technical means necessary for the Labour Inspectorate to intervene before the accident or damage to health occurs. Limits must be placed on the business model whose objective is profitability and profit at all costs, although this is achieved by dehumanizing the work. The implementation of the Occupational Risk Prevention Act 25 years later cannot depend and cannot be expected to change the business culture in this area. Trade unions also do not reach all companies. As indicated in the Strategic Plan, 24 % of employment is concentrated in companies with fewer than five staff members and are therefore not entitled to trade union representation. The intervention of a well-equipped labour inspectorate in terms of human and material resources, as committed by his Government, should help companies to ensure occupational health, both through punitive intervention and by providing advice where appropriate. Because, as trade unions with a presence in the State Labour Inspectorate say, strategic plans are not worth much if they are not accompanied by the necessary resources to make their implementation possible. Within the framework of the Employment Strategy, his Government had committed itself to strengthening labour inspection, increasing the ratio of inspectors to the averages in Europe. Today, human resources at the Labour Inspectorate in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are far from meeting the ILO recommended ratio of one inspector per 10,000 workers, or as the Government's commitment to the European average is assumed. According to data from last year's Association of Labour Inspectors of the Basque Country, the average ratio in our community is almost double. More and more, the tasks assigned to the Inspectorate, such as the monitoring of the timetable that was launched, the actions against the wage gap between women and men, compliance with equality plans, and what happened to the control of ERTEs in the pandemic situation, or the control of new job models such as those generated by digital platforms, are increasingly being assigned to the Inspectorate. But the increase in tasks has not been accompanied by a proportional increase in human resources. And that's why some Labour Inspectorate unions in the state say they're going to do... They can strike for the month of March. And, as I have told you, this is the subject of our inquiry: to know what your Government intends to do in order to fulfil the commitment made to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate in order to increase the ratio of inspectors to the averages in force in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, as you yourself point out in your justification, the role of the Labour Inspectorate in guaranteeing the rights of workers, very specifically that of health, is not only one of the priorities of this Government, but it is at the forefront of action to achieve quality employment, to move from unemployment to unemployment, which we are, by the way, very successfully reducing to creating the conditions for such employment to allow sufficient and decent conditions for those who work. Because we do not want that job to be at any price, let alone at the cost of the health and life of the workers. Both the existing and the immense opportunities that will be generated in the profound transformation that we are experiencing must be geared towards inclusion, equality and quality. A job that allows decent living conditions in wages, labour rights and the right to health. There is no quality in employment without guaranteeing the integrity of people. It is a basic principle that he will never cease to listen to us. And, it's true, it's also part of the Occupational Health and Safety Strategy that reminds us of... I referred to this Parliament in December, which we presented publicly in January at an event to which we invited all the parliamentary groups in this House, although only two came, and which I asked to explain in the committee in this House. These principles have been shared by the Euskadi Social Dialogue Bureau, where all representative social actors have seats, although only those who want to engage in public policies are involved. And the public statement of the Labour Safety and Health Group of the same Bureau, last 15 December, expressly reflects this need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. A reflection that I had the opportunity to personally transfer last Friday to the Secretary of State for Employment and Social Economy at the first meeting of the Basque Labour Inspection Council, because the public calls for public offers of employment of the Labour Inspectorate, I would like to recall, belong to the ministry; as long as the ministry does not convene a public offer we have the vacancies waiting. I would also like to inform you that in the coming days my department will be offering the consolidated data on the activities carried out by the Inspectorate last year, which I hope will be of interest to you. In this data you will see that more than half of the actions have been, precisely, related to occupational safety and health and also account for more than half of the amount in the sanctions imposed by the Inspectorate. To this is added, in what we have done, what you know well. In this legislature we are increasing the staff in 10 places: 3 the past... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... by the Inspection. To this is added, in what we have done, what you know well. In this legislature we are increasing the staffing by 10 places: 3 last year, 4 in the present and 3 in the next. As we stood at the time, at the time of the transfer we had 38 inspector seats, and at the end of this term we will have 42% more seats, that is to say 54 inspector seats. And we're going to add another six sub-inspectors. That being said, as to what we intend to do. The first and most immediate thing is to update the Labour Reform Inspection service that we have managed to bring forward, despite all the obstacles, and that will be a revulsive to advance the quality of employment precisely, including EH Bildu, which has claimed that quality in employment. Secondly, we are making progress as budgeted in the provision of material resources so that the inspectors can carry out the processing of dossiers in a much more agile way during visits to the workplaces than last year was more than 5,000. And thirdly, we are closing a management plan: the first management plan the Inspectorate will count on since Euskadi took over the transfers more than a decade ago. A plan in which, again, we will count on the contributions of the social partners who have wanted to commit themselves to public policies that improve the conditions of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u49	Thank you, ma'am. The mountain, as I said last week's motion, must pass through words. But time is going on, and we don't see that it's taking place in the employment strategy. We've been listening for a long time to the motion granted last week to the inspection. But this commitment must contain numbers, and the calendar must be fixed, in order to begin the engagement. The need to comply with this commitment is based on the conviction that most occupational accidents and other health damage could have been avoided, and can be avoided, by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. Last week his government lost an opportunity with the motion of Euskal Herria Bildu to demonstrate that his strategic plans are also to protect people working in precarious conditions in public works, and especially on the high-speed train and in the works of the subway of Donostia; there he had an opportunity to demonstrate - as he has said again today - that there is a proactive attitude to precarious employment. I have to admit that I am also disappointed in the debate, because the government's parliamentary groups have come to say that the problem in these public works is that Euskal Herria Bildu is against these infrastructures; I do not know whether this would deny the existence of precariousness when not the exploitation of labour in public works. I don't know, but reality is clumsy. Construction of the Zubieta prison: works started in September, with 200 persons employed and with a period of execution of 22 months. We read again in the newspapers and hear the same thing from the unions, what is happening: non-compliance with the agreement, (...) wages, abusive days... Has the Labour Inspectorate appeared for this work? Is there anything you intend to do about the public works commission that was proposed here the other day? Look, Mrs. Mendia, ten years after the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate, the creation of the new places committed by your government has not even materialized, while the work of the Inspectorate continues to increase. In 2012, when the Labour Inspectorate was transferred, the employment ratio of the Autonomous Community was 38; today the actual occupation according to the data of its Council in 2021 is 39. In the actual occupation there is one more person regarding ten years ago. And the same is true of the subinspectors: in actual occupation there are the same people who existed in 2012, when the transfer occurs; 15 in the employment relationship, 15 in the actual occupation in 2021. And, in the light of your reply, Madam Counsellor, we believe that this 2022, when the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate is ten years old, it is necessary to review the terms of the transfer agreement so that this transfer is not merely an administrative decentralization, as is the case with minimum living income. It is necessary that the transferred competence also enables us to decide and promote the necessary resources for the Labour Inspectorate in our territory. Because what has come to answer us is that the petition has been made, but, well, we have to wait for the Ministry of Labour to decide if it suits you, the oppositions are called... I believe that it is also necessary to address the levels of self-government, Madam Counsellor, because we cannot say as you said this week, the Lehendakari, which is not a priority to speak of self-government, and then justify that the commitment to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate cannot be fulfilled, because the competence to decide on this issue lies in the Ministry in Madrid. Or, as Mr Lehendakari himself said today, we cannot decide the minimum inter-professional wage in this Parliament. Look, your occupational health and safety strategy does an analysis of the positive aspects and strengths, and the negative aspects and weaknesses of the strategy. And, among the negative aspects and weaknesses, it states that the autonomous community does not have legislative capacity in the field of work. I believe that this negative and weak aspect of your own plan, and your response to this question, makes it clear that it is a priority to talk about self-government. Because talking about self-government is also talking about new tools that we need for new public employment and occupational health policies, because more self-government must serve to protect people more and better, and that is a priority. And lastly, and in short, we must speak of the ratios of the working to agree and fix. And we need to talk, to agree and fix the calendar to make it possible. And if that be necessary, we must demand the agreement of the right of re-establishment, in order to determine here the resources we need in the Laboration of Job.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Your time is up. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours. [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u51	Mrs Garcia, I don't know, I may have explained myself wrong, perhaps, but I will repeat to you: the places have been created, they are budgeted as well, and what we are not going to do, at any time, from my department is to violate the right of no public worker to be on leave, to retire... Therefore, our responsibility as a government today, and as such I am appearing today, I do not know what competences I will have tomorrow, but with the powers in force today, which is how you asked me to appear in this House, I tell you that I am doing what I am doing with the government program, with the commitments brought to this House. We are creating the places, providing them with budget. We are providing the Labour Inspectorate with financial and material resources, which do not have anywhere else in Spain, which we will probably be pioneering in this facilitation of the means so that they can do their job well, which is to ensure contracts, workers' occupational health, etc. So, I think this is something I want to make clear. Another thing is what we'd like. Well, we'd like to have an OPE and people want to come to Euskadi to work at the Labour Inspectorate. That's what we'd like. And that's why we're creating the squares, the media. Therefore, the concern for the sinestrality that you are expressing is not just your group's, and you know it well, it is the whole of the House; of course, of this Government, of this department, which we work day and night to ensure and to improve all the means at our disposal. And so, I believe that the recently approved occupational health strategy... that I invited the groups precisely to attend that meeting and only representatives of the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group came, but it was an opportunity that you missed to be able to share, to be able to ask experts, because it was a participative day. But, well, don't worry, because we will appear in this House and will accompany my team and the director of Osalan who will be able to answer all your questions gladly. Therefore, I believe that this department is looking for cooperation, contributions. We submit it to the social partners. I believe that this is the place where, in addition, we need to debate, we need to agree. The Osalan Council is involved by the social partners. That strategy had been adopted by consensus. It is a strategy that changes the paradigm of occupational health, because, for the first time, the person is put in the center, and the occupational health is taken into consideration also from the vision of women, that we have our peculiarities as occupational diseases that so far were not seen and through this new strategy they will be able to begin to monitor, monitor and avoid. It also takes into account age, because we are increasingly staying in the job until we are older and there are certain pathologies that must also be taken care of, and jobs must be adapted to those people who are going to be working older. I therefore invite you to have an exchange on the day we have the opportunity to discuss in this House the presentation of this strategy that will enrich everyone. As you know, the Department is open to suggestions, proposals, but let us also be serious when making proposals and statements. That is, we, as a Government, are fulfilling what we have committed ourselves to, which is to create and equip the squares. What we hope is that the Ministry will do the OPE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpation by Jon Hernández Hidedez, together with the parliamentary members of the Society of Podemos, made for the second Vice President and the Chief of Staff and Empedugus, about abolishing extraordinary hours and creating new employments." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u53	Good morning, everyone. Vicelehendakari andrea, let me, before asking you directly for the overtime, which you know I am going to ask you, draw your government's attention to the difficulties we see the workers continue to have in fully guaranteeing their right to strike. This morning we were able to see, once again, how the guns were distributed to the strikers in the company Maxam; and, in contrast, on Wednesday, we could hear the workers of the Altan Pharmaceuticals explain to us how the company, while they strike, the company replaces them with temporary workers. I say this because it seems to me to be an important issue and that, logically, it is directly within your department. I will ask you, as you know, about overtime. A matter of concern to my group. I will start by recalling some framework issues that I think are important. The latest data we have seen recently point to an improvement in indefinite recruitment, which is undoubtedly benefiting from the recently validated labour reform in the Congress of Deputies. Temporaryity in recruitment has been narrowed and legislation has been amended to allow for use and, above all, abuse of temporaryity in recruitment. But now it is time to be far above that recruitment to ensure that the new rights achieved are respected. In the case of Euskadi, it is a task for you, your department, directly. Once the labour reform has been approved, it is now up to them to be very much above companies. However, we can also see, in the unemployment data recorded last January, that there has been an increase in the number of people unemployed in Euskadi in just over 1,000 people. We know that this is due to the effect of the Christmas campaign; it is common for unemployment to rise in January for this reason. But every new unemployed person is a person who is left without economic resources in a system where too much of what is needed for a dignified life must be paid for: housing, food, light, even education - which is free on paper, but which costs too much money to families - and also, unfortunately, part of health, since our public and free health does not cover all the needs for health in conditions - I am thinking of dentist, ophthalmology, etc. -. Unemployment remains, therefore, a problem for too many people in Euskadi. The Basque Government has, in our view, been setting itself as an unambitious target for too many years: the famous 10% unemployment, falling by 10%. Not ambitious, especially, if we respond to the economic structure of our country, if we respond to its industrial implementation, – although...–... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...decrease by 10 %. Not ambitious, especially, if we look at the economic structure of our country, if we look at its industrial implementation – which, although in continuous decline, remains important – if we look at our productive capacity and if we look at the creation of wealth generated by the workers in the companies. Characteristics which, in our view, should allow lower unemployment rates and more ambitious unemployment targets. It is no coincidence that the data from the 2021 Barometer of Consumption, carried out by the Euskadi Trade Observatory, detail, among other things, that employment is once again the main concern of our society. It is the main concern of Basque society because the working people - who are the majority - need, we need employment in order to have a decent life. Employment is the main concern of Basque society. And employment is and will remain the main concern also for the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita coalition. It is also true, I believe, that it is fair to say, although it is possible for anyone to tell me that I am propaganda, that the measures promoted by the coalition government in the State have prevented the destruction of thousands of jobs due to the crisis associated with the pandemic. But I think it is fair to say this because we all know the brutal destruction and precariousness of employment that would have occurred in the last two years if the previous crisis prescriptions had been applied, the formulas of which have always been based on the fact that we were the workers who paid the bill for the problems of capital. And I am not just referring to the previous financial crisis and the policies of the People's Party, which, of course, I am also referring to important reforms of the Workers' Statute promoted in the past by the Socialist Party and to the major industrial conversions that we know so much about in Euskadi. In any case, past water does not move a mill, and our group today is concerned that the difficulty in finding employment remains a major problem for thousands of workers in Euskadi. That is why we want to tell your Government that it has to act in the area of job creation in a very concrete line that is often forgotten, but that it has always been a central demand for the left, for the division of labour, for the division of employment. For us, it is an unacceptable contradiction that while thousands of people do not have access to a job, others are forced to work overtime. And I say well, they are obliged to do so, because although the legislation clearly states that overtime is voluntary - with its exceptions also provided for in the legislation - we all know that most overtime is not done voluntarily; and, furthermore, we know that most overtime is not compensated with rest time and not even paid. And here, Euskadi comes out badly. According to estimates by the union Workers' Committees, Euskadi would be the second autonomous community in the ranking of unpaid overtime in relation to the total overtime that is done. We are alone behind Ceuta and Melilla and together with the Community of Madrid. In recent years, we have listened continuously to the employer and we have heard in a multitude of media, we have heard them talk about absenteeism at work, but very little about the overtime that many workers are forced to do. We believe that the high number of overtime hours - especially unpaid ones - is being silenced and that the bar is constantly being given with oversized absenteeism at work. The realization of a type of work beyond the legally or conventionally established time, i.e. overtime, has a substantial impact on the precariousness of the world of work. They affect two essential elements of the working relationship: working time, with relevant influence on the personal life of the working people, especially with the difficulty of reconciling family life; and a second, salary. And they also affect, I would say, a third, which you know perfectly well as well: social security contributions; paid by not being paid for the salary that would correspond to the actual working day. But, in addition, we want to add today - and this is the objective of our inquiry - they also have another effect: they destroy employment. Overtime avoids sharing and creating jobs in our country. The overtime is ally of unemployment suffered by many workers in the Basque Country. According to calculations also made by the trade union Workers' Committees, in Euskadi there would be more than 280,000 overtime per week, which would be equivalent to the creation of 7,000 jobs. Therefore, we think that together with that reality of thousands of people looking for and not finding a job, we have the reality of thousands of overtime hours that are held annually in our country, which are not few. These overtime hours represent - and I would like the Government to share this view - a clear barrier to creating new jobs and a clear barrier to reducing unemployment. The excess of overtime that takes place must be resolutely combated. It is not just a question of labour rights, which is obviously also a question directly related to policies for job creation. And that is why we would like to know whether the Basque Government intends to implement policies to reduce the overtime involved in creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Lady Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u55	Well, the first thing I would like to say, because you have started your speech by saying that setting ourselves as a target for this country in this legislature a 10% target is unambitious, I would like to say that it is a realistic target. We must bear in mind that we are living in times of uncertainty, no one expected a pandemic, and, much less, no one expects a war on Europe's borders, but we are experiencing a great deal of instability and we must be realistic and know that these issues directly impact the economy. And, of course, it is a realistic goal like that applied by the Government of Spain to the whole country and the Ministry that you know well. Therefore, the first thing I want to say to you regarding your inquiry and the overtime is that there should be no overtime, except for those that are forced by the unforeseen circumstances of production... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... The first thing I want to say to you about your inquiry and the overtime is that there should be no overtime, except those which are forced by the unforeseen circumstances of production, and that, as you well know, they should be assessed and compensated. That's what the Workers' Statute says, and that's how it's still in force after the labor reform, which, as you say, is a big step forward for workers and their rights. At the same time, this reform restores the role of collective bargaining in regulating labour relations within companies, in which they allow them to be companies and trade unions through their collective agreements, from their negotiation, to determine under what conditions the ordinary day can be overcome. In addition, the Spanish Government, not the current one, but the first one that presided over Pedro Sánchez, decided in 2019, in the field of its competences, to regulate the time records to avoid fraud in the performance of working days. This regulation requires that any excess hours must be objective, traceable and negotiated as indispensable conditions, and to guarantee this the Labour Inspectorate intervenes, which precisely, in ensuring the fulfilment of this Royal Decree, has carried out in 2,434 actions in these three years. In particular, 760 in 2019, 769 in the year 2020, although it was a year with pandemic and with economic paralysis and 905 in the year 2021, that is, 17% more than in the previous year, and only 13% comes from complaints, which well points out the inspector's work that ex officio... , carries out the inspection on its own initiative. I am forwarding this information to you, because you asked me in writing and I was going to send it to you in time, as the Rules of Procedure of the House mark, but you do not seem to have wanted to wait for the department to send you the data for your request, and you have moved forward with this inquiry, which, let me say, surprises me a little bit as to what I am used to in parliamentary action. Normally, you ask the government for information and then you do what you think, but, well, everyone does parliamentary activity and control to the government as they please. So far, it's used to be like this. These are the data on what we do as the Basque Government, because it is true, according to the Survey of Working Conditions, by 2020 the number of people who perform overtime and do not charge them, which accounted for 26.8 of the working population, if we go to 2016, was 20. And the one of those who collect them, 8.9, four tenths more, and the one of those who do it often or at peak hours, slightly down, charging 6.5, four tenths less. That is the result of a survey that is being carried out every four years and that will allow me not to draw any conclusions, among other things, because I have told you that it includes an exceptional year, such as 2020, in which teleworking formulas were also extended, and a very detailed analysis should be made to know how this circumstance influenced the indicator we are dealing with in this inquiry. I prefer to look at the contrasted data, the work of the inspection to ensure compliance with the timetable; the great capacity we have demonstrated to sustain employment with the ERTE tool, and the enormous capacity to reintegrate these workers into their jobs. The great subsequent push that has made it possible to create net employment and that we are brushing out historical maxims of membership of Social Security. That picture does reflect job creation and is being given in Euskadi. So from that position of rejection to the overtime with which I began my intervention in defence of collective bargaining as a tool for the latest labour reform, as a way to settle and monitor compliance, and of the work of the Labour Inspectorate, I think that is how we will continue to intervene so that those overtime are not only unfair, but a brake on job creation. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u57	Eskerrik asko, vicelehendakari andrea. When you presented the Basque employment strategy, which you also shared in this Parliament with the groups, which we consider to be positive. We include some resolutions on overtime, precisely as a tool approach to employment creation policies. Our position was not well received, although on other issues we had important agreements, but it was not well received by the groups supporting the Government. And it is something that strikes us, especially because I hear you, because I understand that you, in this case you and your department, share that vision that our group also has about overtime, that it is not just a violation of labour rights, that in many cases it is also, but that it is an issue that prevents job creation and also destroys employment. That is why we are missing policies that include the fight against overtime as part of employment creation policies. All right, Labour Inspectorate does its concrete actions, I asked recently, I did not expect the answer, on other occasions I also asked, but we know what the reality is in the world of work, and you have given some data here. We know that in Euskadi it takes a lot of overtime, and that a lot of overtime is not paid. We therefore believe that there is a need for an important impetus in the fight against this. You have mentioned the modification of the year 2019 for the records of working days. Indeed, one of the circumstances that prevented or hindered the fight against overtime, and also that the workers themselves could denounce and prove it, was that the legislation failed to do so. That's changed. That is precisely why I believe that the Government, in this case its own, but all the governments in..., autonomous, have a very important tool to fight against overtime right now. And therefore, we think that we should give it, taking advantage of that reform that took place in 2019, we should give it an important boost for a thorough control of overtime in Euskadi. That is what we miss, and that is what we want to invite you to do more political action, because it shocked us a lot than in the Basque Employment Strategy because there would be no good reception for that resolution that we are presenting in this respect... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... the Basque Employment Strategy because there would be no good reception for that resolution which we are presenting in this respect. When the legislation was amended in 2019, as you say, there was a debate organized by the Association for the Advancement of Management, in which the then head of the Gipuzkoa Labour Inspectorate intervened and commented that about 400,000 people were holding longer days than they were, which, accumulated, would mean two weekly working days. In addition, something she has perhaps told us, a very important issue too, the weight of women is greater in unpaid overtime. It is also a reflection of the wage gap, of which very little is said. According to data before the pandemic, but we are sure that they will not have changed much, also from the Workers' Commissions, 50% of the overtime worked by women is unpaid; instead, in the case of men, it is 40%. And, in contrast, we also see that there is much talk of absenteeism at work, which is irrelevant in reality. There is an interested speech from business organizations - we have been listening a lot in recent times - that hides the unpaid overtime and, at the same time, distorts and magnificent the phenomenon of unjustified absenteeism at work, and, in addition, mixes it with other justifiable causes (temporary incapacity, paid leave, etc.). And we believe that it is done to impose a public discourse that justifies greater control and discipline over workers. That is why it is very important for us to focus on the overtime that is being done in this country and to fight openly against it as a measure of job creation. The Left has always advocated reducing working hours without reducing wages as a measure for the distribution of employment. And, I see, not the codfish they have just done in Belgium, where they concentrate the same hours of work in four days, which will make family reconciliation more difficult. That is deceiving the workers, the same hours and longer hours. We therefore call on you to give this new impetus to the fight against overtime as a measure of job creation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u59	The first thing I want to say, briefly, is that employment is being created, objectively, as the data say, and above all the data from Social Security, here, in Euskadi, and in Spain as a whole. We are brimming with the peaks of the previous crisis, the great crisis of 2008. And that's very positive. And the trend points in that direction. Despite the turbulence, despite the difficulties that entrepreneurs face with the cost of raw materials, employment is being created. And there is an optimistic view on this issue. Therefore, I want this to be made clear. Then, you commented, to see, of course, the difficulty of overtime... The Labour Inspectorate in this ongoing planning and the new one that will have one of the objectives is the fight against overtime. What makes it very easy to do that too is the record that was put in place, the material means that we are going to put in your hands, technological ones, that will make that control much easier. And I don't think you can establish a parallel, because it would be difficult... I understand why, perhaps, that resolution was not adopted, because there can be no parallel between the fight against overtime and job creation immediately because you prevent that company from having unpaid overtime or unnegotiated or imposed overtime, because, in the end, it is the employer who creates employment in this field, and therefore the decision does not fall into the hands of the Administration. What can we do from the administration and what are we doing to achieve the goals of ensuring that workers who have lost their jobs find a job? Well, I believe that something that is working very well, which is all that has to do with the retraining of workers from sectors in crisis, is working frankly well. They are people who have a long career working who have lost their jobs in mature sectors, who have no future right now, and are being qualified and are being relocated with ongoing dialogue with companies. This is a way to get back to work too: to give skilled workers in times when they need different qualities and people find work. And we also need to be able to respond to the demand of some workers who have jobs and want to work... They want to change jobs. So, there too we have to work. And you were talking about the women's gap. Indeed, the sectors in which women work - and that is also where we are operating from the department - are feminized sectors, with very difficult circumstances for women. And we always have it much more complicated than men. And even though the Labour Inspectorate has been fighting, we still have that gap that differentiates us between men and women and we have to continue to fight against it. But not only by pursuing unpaid or unpaid overtime from the Labour Inspectorate, but by giving women the opportunity to jump to non-feminized sectors, to sectors traditionally occupied by men, with many better wages, therefore, better contributions, better future pensions and better working conditions. And there we are. And I think that we should continue to work on that, because that does open the door for real women in the first-rate economic field... in the first line with good working conditions that give them guarantees of a good future. Therefore, this is the vision we have from the department, sharing with you that concern, obviously, and that fight against overtime since the Labour Inspectorate, and also sharing with your group, well, because all this battle, which we have been doing for many years, since the last legislature, to improve and strengthen the Labour Inspectorate by providing it with places and preparing it for when we can have new inspectors, but those we have are working at 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. 9th point on the subject list: Question, The Forest... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...to have new inspectors, but the ones we have work 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Wild House and the Congress of the Levors of the Book of Staff, the second vice presidents, and the Chief of Staff and Emplegue, about the laborers of the feminised Workers." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u62	Thank you. Good morning. According to last year, the salary of men and women in the community was around 7.200 per crack. According to the study in the Euscadical factory market, sex is an occupational separation, a factor which has the greatest effect on the crack of wages between women and men, until it is 35%, because the professions that are considered feminine are worse. And the pandemia has taught us, the leader of the Hills, who was prophesying from feminism: what a profound crisis we are involved in is that we are led to the collapse, and that women work badly paid but indispensable, because it is not a woman who goes to men's sectors because the Mountain Chief is the key to emphasize the necessity of these feminised sectors. Because we can't stop looking after the next ones because we can't stop looking after the scapegoats because we can't stop working on camps like the minimum services you put in, because we can't afford to produce food, sell, and we can't stop cleaning because it's at stake. And yet they continue to be works which are pre-elected, rejected, and despised. LAB reported that there are more than 17 feminized negotiations to the international day of the US AD, and there are no coincidences left in this. We're talking about co-mercial workers, senior clerks, washing machines. And in the government, to the international day business, there's an announcement of plans to challenge the pay-break. One of the 2018s is in progress, but the working women remain the same situation and the cracks of wages. That's why we ask you this question, Miss chief physician. Do you think this plan is being successful in front of the late jobs that are being given in feminised sectors?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u64	Yes, thank you. I quote the Operational Plan to combat the wage gap, and what we see is the latest report, which indicates a three-point decline in the wage gap: from 22.6 to 19.2 in one year, from 2018 to 2019, that is, just when the strategy was launched, but also when the Interprofessional Minimum Wage was increased by 22%. And that rise caused a widespread rise in wages, which was even higher in the case of women. It was the biggest impact in a decade to bridge the pay gap. So yes, I do believe that the strategy and the plan are being effective. The rise in the minimum wage also. And what has to help us definitely is this labor reform, which some and some of us have had the vision of supporting, also thinking about women, because it returns to collective bargaining and the sectoral agreement the protagonist to ensure fair and equal conditions for women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u66	Amaia Pérez Orozco says it's nice to talk about equality in the labour market and not to wonder who cleans the toilet at home. And we are still in a world where most care work continues to fall on women, both free work and precarious work. And without them there is no life, but still, we look elsewhere, when, for example, in the plan you mention, we don't talk about the feminized sectors, we don't talk about the work of home work, for example. And when these women raise their voices, claim their rights or a decent wage and decent working conditions, we keep looking elsewhere. That's why we wanted to make use of this question, and this time, for this government to demand an active workout over the demands of these sectors, because it can be an actor, beginning from consciousness, but building bridges between workers and patriarchals. You can start talking to Patronal too, and in order to face the crack of your salary, you could start making an intense work on feminized sectors. In the case of the law of equality, we have attempted to penetrate into the proper domain of this sector, and by consent of the groups we have succeeded in a correction of our own, in which the conditions of the working men in the feminised sectors of the public institutions were limited by the opposition which we require to promote, and by establishing, without this, the clauses of society in the public contract. It is essential to determine such things, the President of the Mountain, to begin with what the Administration itself can do, to begin with you as a model. Because it takes political courage to end a salary between women and men, and we need feminist policies. Here's the key.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u68	Well, you've also spoken to me before about conflictivity in feminized sectors and you've set some examples, but conflictivity has nothing to do with the wage gap, except that whoever might be using it as an argumentary, what he's doing is hiding his null will for collective bargaining. There is no more conflict in the feminized sectors. There is it in some cleaning companies, where there are actually more women working, but there are not in other cleaning companies, such as the Vial, where there are more men, and who actually have better working conditions. This is a gap within the same sector, we explain it very well in the book Work of equal value that we have re-edited in this legislature. The way to bring the gap within this sector is called a sectoral agreement, above and beyond those of companies, which some trade unions in this country like so much. And from this labour reform, to which your group has opposed, it is precisely the agreement that will prevail. As a result of labour reform, these women will be protected by sectoral agreements. And you're asking about strikes and mobilizations featuring working women. I understand that they are the same reasons – those of women – that lead to strikes and mobilizations for working men. This is the claim of a number of claims that are not being dealt with. I don't discriminate... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... –...women – who lead to strikes and mobilizations of working men. This is the claim of a number of claims that are not being dealt with. I do not discriminate in the right to strike and mobilization - it is a fundamental right - I do what I do is to combat discrimination and inequality of women, which has, among its many consequences, the wage gap. And I'm doing it with an awareness campaign that we're repeating these days. I am doing so with a programme of entrepreneurship and leadership that we adopted this week on the Governing Council and for which we have increased resources. I do this with pioneering programs for women to move to sectors such as the industrial sector, where they charge more and their working conditions are better and better paid. We organize days of debate and reflection – two last year – on inspection work, but also very specifically on collective agreements and how to bridge the gap. Days, by the way, like others to which we invite the Committee on Labour and Employment, and where we have not had the pleasure to coincide, but we will continue to invite them to attend. But I do tell you that it has fallen on many people: the last of the sessions had a complete hold, both in person and online. And we've opened the way for others to push sessions of this kind too where we all learn. Next Tuesday, Pay Equality Day, a media outlet has invited us to collaborate with them so that that day will not be another day. Again, our invitation to participate. In short, Mrs Etxebarrieta, those of us who believe in full equality, also in wages, we sow the way instead of laying stones. And the last seed was last week with the rise of the lowest wages and, recently, with the approval of the labor reform, which will benefit the working class as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The tenth point in the subject list: "Queen Martín was the same as Podemos, a member of the Antices, a member of the House of Representatives and Security, a project of FES." Mr. Martinezlin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u70	Yeah. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Erkorek. An intense week with the activity of the game, the adoption of that decree, the day, also, international to fight the game. But, well, I didn't intend to ask you about that, but about a project called FES, which is powered by a platform called For the Sustainable Game. And the question is very direct: what is the Basque Government's collaboration with this project?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u71	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, there's no cooperation until today, no agreement between you and that platform you mention. And as far as the FES project is concerned, the only thing I know is that it's still in study and adaptation, and that this phase can hardly be said until it's over, really, whether it's useful or not from the Administration point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u74	Yeah, thanks for the answer. Well, this is Proyecto FES' Webpage: It's a lot easier when you get there. And behind the FES project, there's no small association, it's not legal... Well, what they don't know about the laws, and there'll be a reason for you to be here in the Euskia with the government of the Kanta de Andalucí. But well, I'm glad, I'm glad there isn't that, that there isn't that collaboration. Of course, I trust your word. Because it's a project that, as I said, well, may seem like a project that's safe from education and awareness, but logically, if we see who's behind this project - apparently harmless - then logically, suspicions are also increasing. Because, as I said, they have been, and are, the bosses, the different bosses of the game, of the different channels of the game, the ones behind this platform. And they are employers who try to deny their own data, for example, from the report that you yourself were in the presentation or presented, if I am not mistaken, on Wednesday in Bilbao. They are dedicated - on that website you can see - to, supposedly, well, to trying to disassemble supposed erroneous beliefs about the game, such as that the locals of the game are mainly located in vulnerable neighborhoods, which we have had a lot of debate on this subject in Basque. But if we see the locations in the neighborhoods and in the villages, especially villages like Barakaldo and Irún where most of the betting houses are, if we speak in percentage terms. Or they try to disassemble things that the report says, such as that people with the greatest pathological tendency, have gambling pathologies, are people living in vulnerable environments, or that the proximity of gambling houses to schools does not affect minors. And that, as the Basque Youth Observatory's own report says, is that 32% of youth started in the game as a minor and 90% did so through the face channel. And I am sorry, because there are many things in the decree that we celebrate, but I am sorry that that decree, that additional provision in which it will not affect the existing premises. And besides, this employer, that employer, is also the one behind it, and I hope that it will not resort to the decree of the Basque Government. But it is the employer, these employers who have resorted to Royal Decree 957/2020, advertising the game of the Government of Spain, which greatly limits the advertising of the game, which is a fundamental tool to tackle the most serious pathologies that affect the game. Therefore, if that is the case, as you say, that the Basque Government is not cooperating, at this time, I will tell you to stop cooperating. Therefore, my suggestion, my proposal, is that the Basque Government should not cooperate with this platform - because it hides a very toxic reality behind - and that it should do so with the Department of Education, the Department of Health and associations for the prevention of ludopathy and people who have suffered from these diseases, in order to tackle this very serious problem in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martinez, I'm not going to talk about imponderable futures. Of course, it's only up to me to talk about tangible, tangible, verifiable issues, isn't it? And what is clear is that you yourself have made reference to it. This week has come into force a decree that you do not like the employer, but, well, which is what we had to do and which I believe responds, in fact, to the needs set out in... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... This week has come into force a decree that you do not like the employer, but, well, which is what we had to do and I think it does respond, in fact, to the needs established at this time. And, in addition, following the guidelines of the Basque Observatory of the Game, which is the agency created by the Government itself, which serves as an inspiration to its actions for all purposes. And I can also tell you, and you know this very well, that, at least since this advisor has taken possession of the Department of Security, aid has been called on non-profit entities to stimulate, to encourage the implementation of projects of awareness-raising and prevention activities in the field of gambling, precisely to avoid the problem related to pathological, problematic and excessive gambling. Nine grants were granted in 2020, many of them, six pardons, many of them specifically related to youth, and in the areas that serve as a reference for youth, including the school environment. And, in 2021, nine grants were also granted to non-profit entities for purposes that are highly linked, let's say, to the objectives that you and I share in this respect. We're talking about the Etorkintza Foundation, ASAJER, Jeiki Foundation, Gizakia Foundation, Kiribil Sarea Association, Friends Screens Association, Susterra Association, Izan Foundation, Association for the promotion of responsible and healthy use of technologies and communication. Well, this is the tangible reality right now. This is the trajectory and activity that the Department of Security is developing and claiming today in the field of gambling. Otherwise, I am not going to disqualify any collective and no initiative, either, by virtue of the collective, of the person who drives it. It will have to be analysed, where appropriate, whether it is good or bad, and, of course, it will never be a project that has to do with education by the Department of Safety that determines whether it is viable or not; it will be schools or the educational system that determines its validity, viability and relevance at a given time. But, I insist, beyond speculations and futurables, the reality is this. This is the commitment of the Department of Security today in the field of the game: the decree that has just entered into force, the studies developed and promoted by the Basque Observatory of the Game and all this line of aids and subsidies to all this type of entities that are contributing and collaborating very effectively and making a fundamental contribution, key, to advance in everything that has to do with the problem of excessive play, problem play and pathological play, which is a scourge to beat and combat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u77	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Intertermination, research, Casanova Alonso EH Collectors in the Department of Economics, patience, and the Chief of Environmental Branch, about the loss of parts of the Games and the rest of the Worlds." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u78	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief physician. If I were to say at the moment that the disappearance of Gamesa quotes upwards I would not be speaking figuratively or bringing a metaphor from the business world to real life, I would be describing what the situation of this company is right now. The disappearance of Gamesa contributes to the rise because once one of the shareholders funds of the Gamesa matrix has asked this fund for an opa to complete the control over Gamesa and then make it disappear as an independent company and even the split sale, once that has happened, the Gamesa shares have risen in stock. The market has therefore delivered a verdict. The market wants that to happen, the market is saying that Gamesa must disappear as an independent company; therefore, the disappearance of Gamesa contributes upwards. And in front of that, the question is, how is it possible? Where do we come from and how is it possible to be in this situation now? In 2016, Games worked as independent companies in the last year, Games, euscal company, won 300 million euros. He was well rooted in our country, hundreds of hundreds and hundreds of suppliers. He was strangely rooted in the Basque Country, but even in this practical way, and the predictions were good. Before we give the rifle and the project to Siemens, the owner of the company or the president, we don't need any operations, but we see an opportunity in this alliance with the Siemens. They didn't need it, they earned millions and millions, and it was a world-end company. Research and development in a future sector, − reassembled power, between the world leaders, a company of eupscals. And the fusium was given, or the fusion, the creation actually existed between two prostates, and it began to be that a via crucis is ending, or at least has come to an important boundary at this moment. First, the reductions of the planet, the collision of various controversial cultures, the flight of the Iberdronian, and today the main thesis is that Siemens Myrgi would take full control and then sell it in pieces; that it will undo several parts. And those who are in the greatest danger are the productions of the land, of the Onshore production, the part which Games have sent to the team. I can't deny that the déjà vu is a strong sensation when I comment on them. I am thinking of the question of Euskaltels here, which we accused recently, and which followed a parallel road. How is it possible, how it is possible, at the highest moment of renewed energy, in the greatest revolution, to sell the greatest company we have in our recurrent energy, and finally lose. How is it possible, in the midst of the digital revolution, when telecommunications are in the centre, to sell and lose the most important technology company we have? How is it possible? How is it possible? Nik you had gauzak aztertu egin behar dira, you gertatu in guztia ez zela soilik aurreikusgarria, baizik eta aurreikusita zegoen. The same minutes of this Parliament contain the concerns, the complaints, the requests of this parliamentary group to the Government in the context of Siemens' merger of Gamesa's absorption and the concern about what could happen. In fact, premonitoringly, one of the questions I asked at the time to the counselor was precisely the concern about the loss of the decision center... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... In fact, premonitoringly, one of the questions I asked at the time to the counselor was precisely the concern about the loss of the Gamesa decision center. Good. We have said at first that the possibility of disappearance is increasing, but what is not a possibility but a reality is that the decision-making centre of Gamesa is already lost with the appointment of a new CEO for the company, who will lead the company from Madrid, not only physically, but mentally, with the prospect that the company will take a new direction every time, more and more away, if not, definitely away, from this country. And that's the reality: Euskaltel, Gamesa, Ibermatica, ITP and another good handful of companies in this country, which seems doomed not to be able to have a company, no longer of a global size, but a medium, large, powerful company, a SME or a large company of more modest dimensions than other multinational giants, without anyone coming, take the check and buy it in front of the... I do not know whether impassibility or impotence of the Government and other actors called upon to do anything if they are aware of a country's economic model. And that, of course, is not happening. In view of the results, I believe that, Mrs Tapia, your Government could change its motto and move from the Euskadi Auzolan to the Euskadi Salgai, because here anyone who comes with the checkbook is taken from the best technology company, the best renewable company or is taken to the castle of Butron, whatever it takes. And where are the instruments here to address these indiscriminate purchasing policies as a country? And then I will say that this is not a question of flags or a question of feelings, it is a question that directly affects the employment and quality of employment in this country. Well, we should have instruments to, at least, condition this reality. Do you know that only two Norges Bank and BlackRock funds have invested 9.3 billion in Basque companies? It is true that most of them in multinationals who from Basques, well, have something, but not too much, like BBVA and Iberdrola, but also in Siemens Gamesa, for example, and in many other companies. EUR 9.3 billion only two investment funds. And there are others, there are others. What is our ability to respond? What is our ability to keep those companies that we consider to be strategically rooted in the country? And I'm talking about strategy, because these debates sometimes say, "We can't get into all of them." No one's asking to get into all of them. But Gamesa, at the time of its merger or absorption by Siemens, was the main Basque listed company, apart from the aforementioned BBVA and Iberdrola, and was worth both in Stock Exchange and the rest of the following five or six joint ventures. Is anyone thinking that in Germany, France or Italy someone is going to buy their main renewable energy company and is not going to encourage a public debate and there is not going to be an intervention by the political powers to condition that sale? We are not talking about entering all, but about selecting those that, because of their size, their sector or even their geographical location, are very important for the proper functioning of this country and its productive fabric. And that's not happening. Because, as I said, in the face of the immense investment capacity of these funds which I mentioned, we are practically unarmed, to a large extent because we have given up having instruments for this, because we have not been able to activate them in time. Kutxabank, which should be one of the lines of containment, is not only investing nothing in the company of this country, but is disinvesting in the biggest process of disinvestment that this country has experienced, more than 3 billion in industrial holdings from which it has emerged. They could also change the motto and, with respect to industry, say that their motto is "Take the money and run", as they have done in Euskaltel. The foundations they were called upon, as Kutxabank was called upon, from this Parliament formally and from a majority to do something about this reality, the foundations are neither expected nor expected, the banking foundations. The Finkatuz fund, which you announced, if I recall, in 2016, as it is having a very long gestation process. I hope the creature is beautiful because, really, the gestation is being very intense. Six years talking about a fund that's not yet operational. Even with the express endorsement of the first opposition group, in addition to the majority that has given it in recent years, the majority of the Government, and have not been able to activate that fund. And there have only been a number of operations, which have been confused with that fund, but which is of the Basque Institute of Finance, which do not respond to a criterion, do not respond to a criterion, have been opportunistic operations, which is not that they are bad in themselves, but that they do not respond to any planning, and which came more to cover the holes that Kutxabank was leaving, which did not extend the Basque presence in the capital of the companies in which he participated, but at least managed to maintain it. And that's reality. And we ask you: What will you do to fill up the Arks' roles? What will you do in this challenge if I do anything? What are you going to do about fixing the fund to make it permanent and strengthen it? What about Instituto Vasco de Finnanzas? We know the law is coming. We hope to give us a productive discussion about it, because we think we're short of tools, but we need them with submission. Eta hitz egin beharko genuke ére euskal EPSVen inguruko paperi buruz, éta berber gaitasun eta gihar ekonomikoa no la bideratu neurri txiki batan baldin bada ére, gure ehun produktiboa sussigatzeko. Bath, bitartean, we have to tell you, Mrs Tapia, that foreign investment funds are entering the Basque business fabric like the knife in butter, they are entering for the big ones, they are entering for the medium ones and they are entering, even, for the small ones. And time is running out, because there are not so many companies and, at this rate, we are going to stay and watch them come. Eta nire gallera, Tapia andrea, bada: Quo desque tandem, Ciceronek esaten duen moduan, Quo desque tandem, how long are we going to have to wait to see an effective public investment policy to keep the roots of strategic companies in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Casanova, where do we come from and where are we now? A pretty phrase, a pretty question that can be applied to many places and operators. This is not a new question you ask me on this legislature, it's not a new one, and it's not even new that I'm going to give you. It's true that the economy that's been in the world, and the context of enterprise movement and development, too, is happening in ours... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It is true that in the case of the economy given in the world, and in the context of the movement and change of enterprises, even in ours, the movements are going on: when those who come from outside and the natives are going out, it's something we forget. We know in the reality of glossization and internationalization, just as I have − compared the funds that come from outside, companies, and even when our companies go outside, what they do and how they buy them, and how they put them on the table, and what they do. If I bring this case of the Siemens Games you speak of, I only want to give you a couple of facts, in a way, to consider the real reality of things, because you've asked so many questions and perhaps to tell more about them in the Administration, to ask and examine them, but I'll give you a couple of questions. Hornitzaileen datuak. In 2016, i.e. prior to the merger in 2017, Gamesa bought 310 million euros from Basque suppliers. In 2021, in the midst of the pandemic, with the crisis in the functioning sector, EUR 322 million were purchased from Basque suppliers, i.e. 29% of all that is purchased in the state. I insist, despite the covid impact, and thanks to intense work within the cluster and also by the hand of an agreement, a MOU of work we have with Gamesa. Employment data: there has also been a 40% increase in the number of staff in the Basque Country. It has increased from 683 employees in 2017 to 949 in 2021, considering offices and production plants. Between September 2020 and December 2021, employees increased from 631 to 691, particularly in the R & D & I sector. And, of course, one important aspect must be added: the centre of decision, registered office, prosecutor resides in Bizkaia, which is where the effective management of the business resides, and, for example, where the Boards of Directors are usually held, except for some that have occurred in a pandemic, which have been remote. However, I'm very surprised that your concern for the company is concerned, because it's because CEO lives in Madrid or has gone to live. And this company that's in the retatory business, with its difficulties, not only the whole sector difficulties, have been discussed here by companies who work around the gas, because you're so worried about it that you're really worried about it. Everything's worrying. It is all to consider and say: "Hemos preguntado, hemos interpeldo, hemos mostrado preocupion... "I don't know. Sí, how's qé más? What do we do, really, to get these sectors active beyond being concerned? I'd tell you about... how it was mentioned: "Ademandás de lo que el país puede hacer putide, ese preguntado qué pueden hacerdes por país, además de mostra preocupacion?" "I don't know. Benetan, aipatzen digunean present error, gauza asko aipatu behar ditugu. Because the rooting of businesses into a territory... and I'm going to repeat things that I've already told you, but as you also repeat yourself, then I'm going to allow myself to intensify certain aspects... the rooting of companies, the attraction of companies to Euskadi, of investments, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, depend on a multitude of aspects. Aspects that the managers of these companies value when deciding where they locate a company and where they conduct a given activity, whether to one plant or another. Rooting is not imposed, as you well know; it is achieved only through a multitude of aspects that constitute an ecosystem. And, of course, it is not achieved only in terms of capital; it is one of the aspects, yes, but not only, as you well know. An ecosystem must be created that offers competitiveness, security and comfort in order to develop a business project. In this sense, we have worked, we work and we will work to make this a reality in Euskadi: for us to bring industrial projects, to keep those we have, and also to make them grow. We need foreign investment, yes, but we need above all to develop our local business fabric, with the aim of deepening the way they are located in the world and offering products of greater added value, which we have also talked about on more than one occasion. Euskadi's ecosystem is multidisciplinary: it feeds on a multitude of aspects. Aspects that companies that are going to be located in Euskadi and that are already in Euskadi value: tax issues, energy issues, finance, science and technology, talent, people, institutional proximity, social aspects... All this constitutes the mark of attractiveness of this country. Direct participation in a company by the government or by different actors, of course, to ensure the rooting of a company, goes beyond a certain participation. It goes beyond having a capital in that company. It goes from many other things that we have to consider, and that facilitate the management of challenges that a company has to face. In this context, as you well know, we have important companies that draw from a lot of suppliers in this country, from a lot of very small companies, which originate in a foreign direct investment, 100 % foreign, located in Euskadi, and, however, well rooted in their environment. Then it's not the capital that... or it is not only capital that is rooted in a company. And I'm going to refer to some of the competitive advantages that Orkestra's own competitiveness study says, in which you were present this year, which refers to why Euskadi is competitive. And it speaks of a high level of qualification in tertiary education, placed 23 of the 218 regions of Europe; our high productivity, higher than the European average and similar to the German one in its most productive regions, which are not all equal; the really advanced scientific-technical framework that supports business innovation; the basis of suppliers that we have, solid and of quality; the leading position in Europe in terms of digitisation, as the DESI report says, which is carried out every year; an advanced specialization strategy and a reference cluster network... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... digitization, as the DESI report says every year; an advanced specialization strategy and an international reference cluster network; a high level of internationalization with more than 30% of our regular exporting companies - by the way, with the latest data we have, recovering maximum pre-pandemic indices -; a high level of autonomy including fiscal autonomy with capacity to develop own, recognized policies; a society that generates wealth; a high quality of life, with concrete data, and high levels of inclusion and social balance. And he concludes that Euskadi is a competitive country, attractive for investment and economic activity. And, of course, all these are the aspects that make it considered that Euskadi is a place where companies come and develop. And it is all those aspects that contribute, moreover, to making the root of a company really well located; not only its capital, but all those aspects that Euskadi offers as an ecosystem. We have to consider that, moreover, there is one element that is key, and that has also been approved in this House, and that of course requires important development. And if we really want a model of competitiveness for the well-being of Euskadi, we must also bring to our companies - each and every one of them - that inclusive participatory model that makes transparency, the participation of people, their integration and their involvement in the company itself make that company grow and, of course, be different. These are values that must also be located in our companies. We have models, of course, on which we can look within the Euskadi itself, as may be the cooperative model, but we have to get that rooting also fixed by some working people who really feel part of the project. But we cannot forget that all this happens because the companies we are trying to develop in Euskadi and to collaborate and to help and to promote must be economically profitable for them to collaborate in the social welfare of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u82	Well, Mrs Tapia, I have to admit that your answer has left me a little puzzled; or, rather, your non-response. But before entering what he has said and what he has not said, I will tell you a story, which earlier announced that he was going to talk about the root and what the root means. And I'm not going to tell a story because the political communication manuals say that you have to humanize abstract debates and you have to talk about people and so on, I'm going to tell it because it's happened. That's what my grandfather used to say. When I started a movie like that that said "based on real facts," my grandfather looked at me and said, "this has happened." Well, what I'm going to tell you has happened. I mean, it's happening. It is a company called Altan, which was created under the name of Biomendi in Bernedo, in the Alavesa Plain, the region with the lowest population density in this country and at a very clear risk of depopulation. It was created under the name Biomendi. Even the euskera was present in the name. And it was created for what is basically created all the companies: to do business and to earn money. We don't forget that. We are not talking about public services or NGOs; we are talking about business policy. But, in addition to doing a business and making money, companies can have other dimensions. And when the bet is made and the public authorities turn to the fact that this company opens there, in Bernedo, there were other considerations: there was the consideration of fighting depopulation, of generating female employment - since the majority of the workforce is female - and of betting on a region that had many risks. That company was successful, successful; it was so successful that a multinational came and bought it. And the institutions that boosted their development became mutated by the forum. And it continued to be so successful -- and it patented things and generated new drug marketing models -- that another multinational came and bought it. And now they are in the hands of a multinational, who does not know where Bernedo is, who brings him to the pair where Bernedo is, who gives him the local development of this country and who is unable to negotiate a collective agreement. Not a good one, a collective agreement. That is the root and that is the nature and social vision that a company may or may not have. And when we talk about rooting, we talk about companies that have a plus - that have a plus of rooting - a country view and a model of social and labour relations different from those of these vultures, that of these vultures. Do you know why funds can't stop making money and if they don't make enough money, they cut off the head of those who have to cut it off? Because it's in his nature. You know sharks can't stay asleep, because they don't have a swim bladder. And if they sink... They go to the bottom, if they sleep. Well, this is the same. It's the same. So, the moment they get in, we have to try our clothes. And you said some interesting things. Your entire interaction, of course, is quite normal, and you're quite right not to talk about gambling and not to fix it, and I can understand it; and I'm almost grateful when some of the porters have lost their discussions, they come to invent or insult things, at least you've come to talk about other things, it's smart. And besides, I despise most of your interference with a single sentence, we agree: shooting isn't just being in capital. And it may be that foreign companies are pleased to be here because a hundred producers are advanced because they are qualified because they are financially funded, because there is communication, and whatever they are, they agree, but also because of capital. Aiartza jaunak beti exacten said nire zioetan gauza asko azaltzen ditudala, éa eskertzen duela, gero badakielako zertaz hitz egitera datorren. We, specifically, in reason, in the reasoning of this inquiry, said what we wanted to talk about. We didn't want to talk about the ecosystem in general or about R & D. We can and will talk about the ecosystem and R & D and many other things at another time, but today we wanted to talk about tools to improve public participation in strategic companies, and I mentioned them in my first intervention. And you in this regard, at least so far, in today's appearance, have said nothing. They blame us for just doing things... Joe, we do the things that belong to the opposition. I think you, sometimes, if you don't see yourself with the ability to deal with this and other problems, then, hey, let us... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the things that belong to the opposition. And I think you sometimes, if you don't see yourself able to deal with this and other problems, then listen, let us, we're not in the government. We cannot be asked to act as a government, we here in Parliament have several functions, the fundamental, control and impulse to the government, and we control and drive the government, and when there is a financial operation and we say 'be careful that there are a number of risks here', and the question we are saying is 'is the title at risk'.) centre of decision", because we are fulfilling our task, and now we are fulfilling our task. And when you tell us that fusion is very good, that fusion is very good, and repeats us in the following question, in 2017, we say the same as in 2016: "From a country perspective, this operation is good for the country, for industry and for suppliers." Well you're the one who has to explain, I think we've made ours (?)).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u83	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u84	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, you've started talking about real stories. I would rather not talk about real stories that have happened in this country in the industrial sphere. And you're also going to prefer that I don't. And in a country there are many things that can be done, even from opposition, not only to be concerned. Apart from worrying and asking questions, and the opposition must, of course, do this, and there are many things to be done here, and what I ask of you is as opposed, that you may be a constructive agent, not just to ask questions and control them. When we were talking about competitive and attractive Euskadi, I'm just going to give you some data from January 2022, which are in the press, and you can get them out just like me. Well, a company like CAF, by the way, of a certain size, of course, with respect to its competitors can be considered small, but for Euskadi it is an important company, it has achieved a multitude – I mean, because there have been quite a few – contracts at international level, a competitive company. The CAF-Iberdrola and Talgo-Repsol tandem have also launched innovative hydrogen train initiatives, with capital, and of course, located in Euskadi. Haizea Wind has just announced a new deployment in the port of Bilbao with 175 million euros. Haizea Wind, located in Euskadi, by the way, in which Ekarpen participates, with capital of the Basque Government and Kutxa; to be commented on. Iberdrola announces, of course, very important purchases and a contract in the United States, about 10 billion euros. That directly involves traction of Basque suppliers. A company like Ternua accelerates its growth by around 50%, companies of a certain size. And Gestamp tests his factory in Euskadi (?)flexible, which is going to be real in the year 2025, but the test is already there. This is also a Basque economy. This also happens every day in Euskadi: investment, expansion, alliances, growth, wealth generation. And from the Basque Government that is what we are doing: participating, making available to all our companies, especially the small ones, – we announced two days ago – 590 million euros with 74 different programs in 10, 12 relevant areas, where also the Finkatuz Fund will have a lot to say and a lot to do, where the IVF works together with the business fabric of Euskadi also to help them in their financial situations. Therefore, I root yes, but not only with capital, which also, but with all those instruments to make a more competitive Euskadi, I insist, to improve our well-being. And I'm going to end what they say about us, it seems like the debate is over here, but I'm going to refer you back. A day that existed, which took place in Bilbao, Bizkaia, Mundura Begira, in November 2021. There I will refer you to three international articles that you certainly know, Martin Wolf's article in the Financial Times, talking about the lessons that we can learn from what is done in Basque, not what has been done, what is also done now. An article by Dr. Caroline (?), of the (?) Centre in London, which also talks about lessons to be learned from Euskadi and being able to apply in other regions. And?), who was also on that day of Mundura Begira, publishes an article in the (?) Malaysia, that is, also in Asia they talk about us talking about how cities and small regions like us can participate and act in the global world. Then, it is not just all that, but I also believe that something, not all of it, obviously, but some is doing well, because we are beginning to be an international reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question of Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Collectors made for EH and Chief of Ogas, the agreement which the banks offer to the people." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u86	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. There have been complaints about the dealings which the bank offers to the people. When the banks reduced the preceding service to the time-tables, some of the services which were made in the shutter were to be done through the Internet or the cashiers, the disappearance of the suursals and cashiers of certain villages and neighbourhoods has caused many obstacles and difficulties in the daily life of the citizens and especially masters. The pensioners raised their voices, but I'm afraid that a lot of citizens share their complaints. And these complaints of pensioners have had their effect. The banking and boxes start to announce protocols, measures, separate shutters, and spring hours... They're from around here, too. It is evident that these complaints have made them uneasy, and that they have felt the necessity of doing something. And we'll see what's left of it, but today we want to talk about what the Basque organizations can do about it, don't we? For we have also heard political parties, we have discussed political parties, we have heard Eudel; [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... for we have also heard political parties, we have discussed political parties, and we have heard of them, and therefore let us talk of what the Basque Institutions may do to-day. In order to overcome the difficulties and difficulties which the people find in their contact with banks, it may be of great importance to the Basque institutions, Mr. Subazus, we would like to ask you whether it is a pleasure to terminate with the financial dispensation of the banks, and to guarantee the access to the financial services of the finances which are to be paid for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u88	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. [[Microphone Off spoke]] ...as in some matters, I think we agree in this matter. In this case we are concerned about a subject which is not new, but which has a special presence and echo in the course of these weeks. Kortajarena andrea, you are aware that the main demands of older people focus on issues such as face-to-face care without time constraints, telephone care, and also have the help of certain operations. The Basque Government, conscious and committed to this problem, has been in contact with the financial institutions representing the Basque Country for the past few weeks. We have shared and contrasted our concerns with Kutxabank, Laboral Kutxa, BBVA, Santander, Banco Sabadell, Caixabank, Bankoa Abanca and Caja Rural de Navarra. The response has been very satisfactory and we are committed to carrying out an analysis of measures to ensure that older people have access to different banking services and to improve face-to-face care. We are also discussing the option of jointly reinforcing training actions with a view to achieving a friendly banking, with training similar to that which has already been developed in Euskadi for the management of mobile devices. As you know, financial institutions work within the specific protocol of strategic protocol to strengthen the social and sustainable commitment of the bank, formalized last July 21. The protocol includes, inter alia, measures to promote financial inclusion, as well as to promote digitisation. In any case, banking entities have already begun to implement some changes, such as increasing turnaround hours, prioritizing the attention of this group, giving them more personalized attention or strengthening telephone care. Another issue that we are analysing, and on which we will have to go further with them, is that of access to financial services in rural areas where there is no presence of bank offices or cashier services of any financial institution. Our idea would be to be able to implement support and financing measures for the installation of ATMs in these municipalities from the Basque Institute of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u90	I'm glad you agree, and I'm glad you've also started your department in these matters. But it seems to us that the time for promotion has come, and also that we have the power to produce it. Because in the end, these institutions have a social function, and some of them, too, were created with a social vocation. And is there a function more social than reporting, listening to people, taking care of them? It is a fundamental matter, and rather than a direct concern of the entities, that institutions and administrations can produce such an operation. It is necessary, we think, to give a reflection about the social function which these entities now occupy. What's a good idea that social function is the cause of financial neglect? Or when a noise is made, when these complaints are made, to take such measures? I think it's essential to solve these situations in which the proper and specific measures are set up. And, at this point, I think it is also pertinent to remember the robbery of the bank bailout, which is already rising to 101.5 billion, of which only 9,500 are expected to be recovered. Socialization of losses from the suppression of services to citizens in order to increase profits. Well, I don't think we can admit that either. Eta euskal erakundeek badute eragiteko gaitasuna. Batetik, kasu batzuetan erakunde, entitate, horien parte badirlako; and, on the other hand, because the economic amounts that public administrations and institutions have deposited in these financial institutions, the transactions they make with them place them in a position to ask these entities for minimum commitments in terms of implementation and service to the people. In any case, as we are concerned, together with Podemos, and with the motion of pensioners, we will endeavour to bring this dispute into this legislature, and to make it in real engagements and real means of action among us by the Basque Institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u92	Mrs Kortajarena, I think it's true too and I think it's important to remember, and you know it very well. I must say that the Basque Government has no competence in banking supervision and regulation. In fact, regulation in these areas already exceeds even the state level and is in the hands of the European Central Bank. But, in any case, sharing your concern, as I said in my first speech, I summarize the issues dealt with in the previous speech. First, we have had discussions with the banking entities that have the most presence in Euskadi. Secondly, we are discussing the option of jointly reinforcing training actions to achieve a friendly bench. And, third, we are analysing access to financial services in rural areas with the support of the Basque Institute of Finance. I reiterate the commitment of the Basque Government and the Department of Economy and Finance to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, David Soso Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, to the Treasury and the Chief of the Ogas Department, about politics." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u94	Good morning, counselor. According to the autonomous index of fiscal competitiveness of 2021, developed by the Foundation for the Advancement of Freedom and the Task Foundation, the three historical territories and their respective estates are among those that lead these rankings at the state level; the rankings of fiscal competitiveness. For some years now, programs such as Invest in Basque Country of the Basque Government, but also of the deputations governed by you, boast at international fairs... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... tax. For a number of years now, programmes such as Invest in the Basque Country - of the Basque Government, but also of the parliaments governed by you - have been taking pride in Euskadi's international fairs, strategic documents and fiscal competitiveness forums. Mrs. Tapia did it a few minutes ago. Behind that euphemism, as we have already mentioned to you once again, there is a long list of tax rebates, deductions, mainly for large companies and fortunes. The Society Tax, by way of example, has not ceased to lose weight in the Basque Country's collection. In 2021, we collected 36%, or we collected 36% less than in 2008. The tax reform of 2018, agreed with the People's Party, has not allowed the recovery of corporate tax collection. In 2021, the record year of collection that you celebrated, has left us with 22% less than in 2018 as far as corporation tax is concerned. Compare with the IRPF assessment, which collects 37% more than in 2008. They only raise taxes paid by the popular classes. For businesses and large estates a wide range of tax candy is offered. Does the Economic and Financial Adviser share that fiscal competitiveness is a fundamental axis of economic development policy? Are you going to keep boasting that in this country the rich pay little taxes to see if they attract their fortunes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u95	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u96	Bai, President Andrea. Mr Soto, I wonder whether I share the view that fiscal competitiveness is a fundamental axis of economic development policy. For this purpose, the Autonomic Tax Competitiveness Index of 2021 prepared by the Foundation for the Advancement of Freedom and the Tax Foundation is on the table. I am greatly surprised, Mr Soto, at the credibility you give this foundation. I suppose at this point, in any case, that we already know each other well enough, so that you know that I am not precisely a follower of this type of foundation or less of its postulates that seek to articulate libertarian public policies. Neither is this government. A government that, in fact, uses its very valuable fiscal self-government as one of its main attractions in the development of internationalization policies. Yes, Economic Concert is a fundamental axis of economic policy for economic development and one of the main vectors of internationalization policies. By the way, maintaining our basic public services is also a key axis. To consider self-government as an attraction in our policies of internationalization is perfectly compatible with knowing and sharing the debates on international taxation that are currently taking place. Moreover, the international debates and agreements that are taking place at the international level affect us completely, as the Basque Government is not alien to them. He will know that, recently, we have made an institutional visit to the OECD and have met with Pascal Saint-Amans and David Bradbury, heads of the International Prosecutor's Office and promoters and creators of the most important agreement of recent years for combating the erosion of tax bases and the transfer of profits. Agreement establishing fiscal measures to tax where value is generated. These people are also responsible for the recent OECD agreement on the taxation of the digital economy, which will ensure that multinational companies are subject to a minimum tax rate of 15% from the year 23. The adaptation of the Concert to international agreements sends a clear message. It shows that we have the capacity to implement economic development policies, yes, but at the same time we are a serious and committed country to the fight against tax fraud, the fight against erosion of tax bases and the transfer of profits and the implementation of how many measures lead us to the taxation of the most just and balanced digital economy. In answer to your question, as to whether I share that fiscal competitiveness is a fundamental axis of economic development policy, I will tell you that I do not share the fiscal competitiveness defined by that foundation, but I do believe that the fiscal capacity we have in Euskadi is a fundamental axis for economic development policy integrated into an international tax environment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Counsellor, for the answer. Regardless of whether we do not take as a guide or horizon what the Foundation determines, and neither do you, we are glad that this is so. The reality is that the positive assessment it makes in terms of fiscal competitiveness due to the loss of collection of the corporation tax, which is not casual, that is, it is due to a political practice with regard to the design and structure of the fiscal policy of this country, which has been generating that it is less collected by that tax, and yes, successively, more by the tax of the IRPF, in that is what we should stick to in order to reflect on the modernization of the Basque tax system. That I believe you will share, because if you referred to the OECD and also to the agreements that have been adopted within the international framework, and also within the framework of the State with regard to new taxes and new forms of taxation, you will share that we also need deep reflection in Euskadi on how we adapt to the new times to Basque taxation. And the reality is that, in general, the answer you give to our parliamentary group is that this is not the time. That's what you've been telling us for the past few years. It is true that the premises that have been established from other frameworks have been adapted or assumed, and you have also agreed in the Joint Commission certain concerts concerning certain tax formulas, but, apart from that, what we and we are asking from the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza is to open the debate of the Prosecutor's Office also in Basquedi, regarding the own rules on which we have jurisdiction. And that's true, as you say, that's a value. A value as long as it does not go to the detriment of the popular classes, adds fiscal pressure to them and what it does is to lower the fiscal pressure to those who have the most, which has been the practice of the last few years, and, of course, what underlies the tax-tax agreement with the People's Party. We invite you to use the agreement, with regard to the modification of the fiscal structure of this country, with the help of our parliamentary group and not with other formulas, and also this body, which has the competence of the Basque Government to harmonize this country's tax system, to make use of it, for example, with regard to the Heritage Tax and Succession Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u99	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u100	Mr. Soto, very briefly. Look, I'm going to sum up what I brought you in in the first intervention, which is what I really wanted to transfer you. First, Economic Concert is a fundamental axis of economic policy and economic development - and it seems to me very good that you accept it in those terms - and one of the main vectors of internationalization policies. Secondly, it is a fundamental axis to maintain our basic public services... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... You accept it in those terms, and one of the main vectors of internationalization policies. Secondly, the maintenance of our basic public services is a fundamental axis. And I believe that the fiscal capacity we have in Euskadi is also a key axis for economic development policy integrated into an international tax environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u101	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, Joseph Manuel Gilegas of the popular-Ciudadnanos, a member of the Board of Education, financial instruction." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. Well, we are in the middle of this debate about the new education law and in the middle we are beginning to get used to this House having to learn from the press about certain reports from your department, in a practice that seems to us to lack transparency and which I hope you will correct as soon as possible. And I say this because already in September we had to know through El Correo the bad results of Basque students in language skills and how model D was failing. In December we learned, also from the press, about the terrible results in mathematics obtained by Basque students in the Diagnostic Assessment. Our parliamentary group requested the data from that report and you replied, surprisingly, that they were being modeled. And it's even more surprising that they should still be in the process of modeling after I don't know how many months. I don't know if we have a lack of infrastructure problem or something, because... Anyway, let's get to the point. On February 10th, we met, also through another report from El Correo and the Basque Diario, not directly, another report from his department, also unknown to this House, in this case on the amount that would entail for the public coffers the elimination of the quotas of the concerted raised in that draft document made by the Chairman of the Education Commission on the future law of education. A document that must be remembered when it is necessary that it is not the result of any agreement, of any negotiation, or even of any conversation on it, which is nothing more than the President's point of view. But the journalistic information about that report, about that ghost report, because we haven't seen him, they say... or provide some interesting figures. The cost of eliminating quotas is 288 million. It is said that the departure for the agreed centres would then increase from 691 billion to 979 billion. This would mean an increase of about 1,600 euros per student and course. The increase in funding for the concerted action would then be 42%. Let us see, and we are not assessing the figures or saying if there are few or many, but, as we have had to know that information partially and through the press, it is necessary that I ask you now: First, what report is it? Where's that report? Is that 288 million the amount that the Basque Government figures for the under-financing of the currently agreed school or covers other concepts? How did they calculate that figure? What concept do you mean? Would this figure cover all the underfunding you have calculated? Anyway, what is the origin of all this data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u104	Yeah. Mrs. President of the Parliament. The Chief of Investigation and the congressmen, good morning. Gil jauna, I would like to begin my speech by clarifying that the working document which echoed the means which you have cited in your justification and which was now prepared internally, internally, in April 2021, prior to the beginning of the work required for the planning and regulation of the new period of consultation 22-23, 27-28, and, above all, to contextualize the subject we were going to and which we are going to address, that is, to put on the table various scenarios with absolute transparency and assumptions of consultation. As I say to you, a hypothesis paper, which was handed over to the centers and which is merely an estimate and merely an informational one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u106	...advisor for the answer. It's not like I've cleared up a lot of things. It tells me that it is an internal document that was made in April 2021, but we still do not know why the press has it before this House. And he tells me he turned himself in to the centers, but he didn't turn himself in to this House. And, therefore, understand that I see myself in the need to keep asking not only where that report is and what its status is at present, but, I repeat, what are the origins of the figures that appear there, that is, are figures that are regulated how and in what way. And I repeat that we are not saying that it is little or that it is a lot of money, that we will see when we can understand how those figures are calculated and how it has been done, because we do not know. Finally, we, as you know, have always defended the funding of the concerted school on equal terms with the public school. That it's a mistake to counter both schools. The public school has its needs. And we have to face them directly. But the concerted school has been carrying an underfunding deficit for many years. And, indeed, it would also be a good opportunity for this new law to fix that problem. We agree on that. But please, without any illusions about the reports, that is, let us put everything on the table, let us give those reports to this House, that we can study them all, let us know the origin of the numbers and in that sense we can agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u108	Bai. Gil yellow. Mainly, the purpose of the document was to initiate a process to be able to make a shared diagnosis of the situation with the agents involved. It's a working paper. In an exercise of transparency and, as I have indicated before, with the merely informative objective, this document, together with other information, was shared with the employers of the centers agreed in July last year. Along with the same one, the request for contributions for the new period of renewal of concerts 22-23 was moved, in a context of descent of students, with different incidence in each region. Cannot be extracted or extrapolated from a previous contextualization study in which you venture a cost estimate based on both the course 14... or 2014-15 as of the year 17-18, i.e., conclusive statements cannot be drawn. In addition, all aspects underlying the approach to a sustainable model of educational consultation should be taken into account. An actuality marked by demographic changes, the decline in the birth rate of recent years, the need to attend to the increasing diversity of students and to contribute... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the decline in the birth rate in recent years, the need to cater for the increasing diversity of pupils and to contribute equitably to the new challenges and difficulties that this diversity creates; the duty to guarantee the right to education to students with unfavourable socio-economic conditions; and an adequate and balanced distribution among schools of pupils with educational support needs. Look, Mr Gil, the most appropriate response to all these aspects requires considering different factors such as: projections for the future; cost analysis in relation to faculty, classrooms, students; updating the components of the concertation modules; study and approach of formulas for attention to diversity, and, of course, their corresponding allocation to the economic module. As you can see, none of this is reflected in the report you mention. These are precisely the aspects on which the Department of Education is working to update the concert system on the basis of coexistence and complementarity in the provision of public education services in compulsory and free basic education in publicly funded centres. As you will see, it is a complex issue in which many more factors are involved than those reflected in the working paper, and we continue to work with the actors involved. With all the documentation we use, with all the actors we negotiate with, it would be impossible for us to send all the documentation and all the reports we transfer with absolute transparency to all the educational agents; it would be impossible. With this, it is clear that we are always going to work at the hands of this Parliament, we are going to work at the hands of educational agents, but let us work. And sometimes they read fewer newsletters, but they read more...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Ubeka Aranz and the members of the Kultura and the head of the political department of the Society, about the initiative of the assaults that are suffering from the courts." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u110	Good morning, Mr. Zupiria. We have had worse times for the Basque tongue, for our natural language, but the times we live in are neither the best nor the best. It may be inferred that the judicial power endeavors to establish by judicial judgments in the new policy of the language, beyond the reading of justice and laws, which are peculiarly derived from the courts of justice. If we had first difficulties to advance, then at this day, the manifold oppression which has been driven out of the backs of society, is nothing but the porch of that which comes from the courts. So, Mr. Zupiria, in front of all this, in front of the attacks that are suffering to the euphorium, what is to be done?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u112	Chief of Parliament, Chief, Congressman, Mrs. Ubera, all good days. I agree with your questions about the ideas you're talking about and the concerns. I also have that uneasiness, because sometimes I find that the two official languages of ours did not receive the same treatment, and that the languages which are only ours, are the euphores. And it is true that at this time we have seen in certain places the messages, judgments, and decisions which do not favor the normalization of the eussa. I shall here remark, that the vast majority of this legislature had made a decision by means of an expression, and by another proposal of the law, last year in June and October, about a judgment. In this country every institution asks us to follow our course in order to normalize us, to maintain our rights in the language of the people, in order that we may have the talk of the eucalyptus, and in order to secure the rights of the language of the people. In particular, it is mentioned, that the legal right of public institutions and legal rights are established by the language of public employments, and by the dates of necessity, which are always placed in the middle language, and respected in legal order. Finally, the U.S., in all those preoccupies mentioned, asked for consent to renew what regulates the normalization of 86/1997 Decree, in the public sector or in the public sector. This is what the parliamentor asked for, and that is, Mrs. Rebeka Uberea, who's making fun of her diary. And this, by respecting the jurisdictions of each organization in conjunction with the other institutions. In the case of local institutions, the knowledge, promotion, and language within the organization is a special jurisdiction of the local councils or councils. It's a joke to help them, but it's a complete autonomy to get the needs of the people and the rights to respond to the execution of the language for the best policy to plan and carry on. Besides, it is necessary to remember, they are decided in council assemblies. In this respect we appreciate the labor of the townships in a positive manner, because they are considering the rights and wants of their citizens, and the progress of progressive and effective language. In their language, when there are sentences contrary to the planation, they are presenting resources which they see well enough, and in the case of them, we are giving− with the help they ask of us, and respecting their jurisdictions. So our answer was to help the councils who asked for help or criteria. In addition to this, the plans which are at our level and influence those municipal councils may be carried forward, and we are speaking of this, in leisure, in social space, in sport, and in several other camps. We are concerned, however, as we have been told, with the judgments which we know, our order, and... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in sports and other camps. We are concerned, however, with those judgments which we know. It is therefore to defend our order and our jurisdiction, as we have established in the Euscara of 1982. And it'll be important to discuss these decisions and take lessons out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u114	Thank you. Well, Mr. Zupiria, it has been shown and it has been shown that with the accounts you've mentioned today it's not enough, and, after all, it's more than ever the need of a quantum leap in the state of the euca. And today, we want to make a request for you: not only in answer, but only to limit, as you have mentioned, the municipal council, or the institution, in the presence of the courts of justice, to support its defence. We think it's time to pass from defensive position to the proactive, and, consequently, as they are soliciting from euphora, in the political area, and to put the political region together with the political territory for the future of the eucalyptus to build together with its compact columns. So let's be able to protect the house of the euphora with a vast shed. I'm trying to tell you that after the verdict against the Council of Irungo, we tried to open the way together in order to accommodate the law of the Public Function thus established, but we didn't. In short time, we can have different options to step in those areas which are essential, and with the decree of language requests, −, today, is not valid in the Law of Public Emplegu, and also in the monograph of the strategic agenda of the Euska which we are about to perform. The President has also stated this week that it may be a convenient moment to resume the discussion of the new States before the correlation of Congress has changed. This assertion, perhaps, ought to make us think our language of rights, and we ought to begin our journey in this direction; for, as I have said before, it is very evident that the necessity of making a quantum leap in the States of the euca. So, Mr. Zupiria, what we wanted to know today was why you're ready to go on that road, to break it. We are prepared to answer from political territory to the demand of euphorion; but, of course, we can't alone be who we are not. And it's essential to give you that leap. Is there any chance, Mr. Zupiria, that we should go on this road together? Are we going to have funk?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-18.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at twelve-eight o'clock in the morning.
