ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Provide the law made by the parliamentary team to facilitate the traffic consumption and change the Earthzoru and the 30/2006 law of June 30th of Rome. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted, and we're just going to argue. Since it's a side shift and a counter shift, is it supposed to be a part of the other round? On the counter shift? Okay, well, we'll start our shifts. Mr. Otero, recruit the EH team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today we are connected with a proposal of law, which makes the retractable energy easier in buildings, or sets them up. I must say, it is a simple initiative, a simple initiative, but it seems to us that it is necessary at the same time that the enterprise which brings us here will be effective and effective. And I'll explain. I think there shouldn't be much news about the energy context. You're all aware of our emergency situation here for a quick review. Our neurological consumption remains high, our dependence on external energy is almost complete, including the dependence on fossils. And in our country, the retractable energy, even though something has been put, has not been sufficiently or properly extended. That's our emergency situation. And that's why it's so important that we're at some point and we're almost like an obsession, to spread retractable energy and re-establish these retractable energy on every possible scale of fashion that can be available and accessible to us. We have to do it on every scale, but we also believe that we have to encourage a first or urgent issue. I mean, in the extension of small-scale energy that citizens have, right? Deesho, I'd say that a lot of our people are already holding on to the neurotic transition, and that they're making essays in the fashion of self-conceiving, and in the fashionable community, and in the modality of self-disputed self-consumption. It is evident that these low-scale facilities are of sudden advantage: personal benefits, for those who make these facilities, and for all of us social benefits. I mean, if someone does an installation in his house by means of photoboltical plates, he's suddenly benefited, for instance, by a large amount of electric bill. But at the same time it does us good, because the energy that consumes it reduces from somewhere else the fluid CO2 from somewhere else, and lowers the neurostic dependence we have in other places. And maybe I think it's the most important thing when somebody takes a retrieval facility in his house, and the transition becomes an active agent on the side of the neurotic transition. I mean, it puts a consciousness to the power consumption. It often happens that once the installation has done, it adapts its consumption to its creation, i.e. to the production of the installation in its own house. That, all that, gives him a benefit. However, it happens that these premises are made; that is to say, in the three fashions I have mentioned, the −auto consumption, the self-consumption of self-consumption, and the survival of these vital communities, as yet, there are so many obstacles, so many obstacles, so many delays. And having long since come from the institutions of the European Union, as the Dutch of the country and its designs say, we must, in some measure, exercise some part of the difficulties and difficulties which all of us are in possession of by these means of innovation.... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... that we must, in some measure, exercise in order to ease the obstacles and obstacles which these facilities of renewing them, do we not? And that's what tonight's proposal is for. Seeing, of course, that we are obliged to make proposals, which are annexed to our jurisdictions, and that there are at present so many inconveniences beyond our reach. It may be − and I'll talk about it later when I make a little bit of −'s self-consumption, there are physical boundaries, how many meters it can be done. There are other obstructions, I don't know whether any of you have contributed to the origin of a neuroptic community, but if you did, you'd know that once you started creating a ical community, you'd come into a sort of bureaucratic ode. Or there are other kinds of obstructions, for example, when we put self-consumption installations or the energy that comes out of it to be thrown into the net, the prayer and normalization of it are passing months and months, because the bottle consists of several throats between it and its permissions, isn't it? There's another obstacle that I want to discuss about this and the law proposition is from now on, which is that municipal work has still been required for these facilities. In some cases the delay which this brings may be for a few weeks, sometimes around a month; but there are cases which are also − non-compounded, and according to the townhouse, and according to the rate of work that this documentation or that permission has been granted, is the delay of months and months, isn't it? And that's where we come to operate and that's where the initiative comes from. Hence the law which we bring to-day is a proposition of the law to facilitate self-consumption by changing a specific article of the law of city and soil. That is to say, the law of the State and the soil establishes in its article 207, how the licenses, the municipal licenses, work, work. And what we're proposing here is that we make an exception when the installations of the photovoltary are required in the buildings, and that it is not necessary to ask or get this town license, and to change it in exchange for a preliminary notification. In other words, what is proposed today through this proposed law is to change the land and urban planning law of 2006, which in article 207 regulates the issue of municipal work licences. And what is proposed through this amendment is that, from now on, for those installations of self-consumption in the buildings it is not necessary to obtain the license of municipal work; that is, that there is an exception for the development, for the impulse of the installations of renewable energies in houses. Not only that, but also adding to this proposal, it is also proposed that those installations which are to be carried out in buildings intended to set up charging points for electric vehicles should also not have to have the corresponding municipal construction licence, and this can be replaced by a prior communication. So once a person decides to do this work he can do it simply by communicating it to the city council, thus winning in some cases because precious months that help us in the energy transition. That's it, after all. That's why I said the initiative was simple. But at the same time, I think the initiative will be somehow effective, because today we find the bottle in front of a neck, or because we find ourselves. There will be no discussion, no opposition. And in this sense, I'd like to use the idea that you've made for this legal proposition. He's given his opinion, and I'd say the arguments are more or less in sync with what's done here and what's made by "Male." that is to say, it is necessary, it is granted, to avoid such inconveniences and delays, as are necessary for us to detect, see, and correct those inconveniences which we meet with from the European Union. And in that sense, we're glad to hear about the fun of you, which isn't very common to our legal proposals, but in this case, we could say that we're almost 100 percent in harmony. And in this sense, too, it seems to be with the parliamentary groups which I have hitherto had, that our proposal to-day will receive a very large protection, and in this sense we seem to be able to give a happy account to those who are looking out or paying attention. And I don't have much more to say about the law. But I'd like to take advantage of this moment to make thanks, to make offers, to ask a few offers, and I think it's time to make a little self-critic and a little critical. On the one hand, I'd like to thank Navarre, the Basque People, because if you see the proposal of the law, you'll see that in Navarre it's like a whole proposition of law received in this law, almost identical. And so we're talking about a size made by our members of Navarre and a large amount of protection. I also want to make an offer, because now we know that the bill's accepted here and we'll have to discuss later on at the committee and so on. I also offer the offer to all the other teams, as we have found this obstacle to extend the recurrent energy, so you may have other proposals, and our hand... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... As we have found this obstacle to extend the recurrent energy, you may have other proposals, and our hand is open, taking advantage of the execution of the law, to make further progress. I'd like to ask Mr. Tellegio a small request from the Environmental Committee. And, well, there's a very large consent to take this to the board quickly, and all the proceedings as quickly as possible... to go as fast as possible, not to delay; to avoid delay, to prevent this law being held in delay, is it not? I think we have to make a little self-critic from us, and all of us, because this proposition, as I said, is simple. But it was actually possible, and I want to remember here in 2019 that this legislature declared the state of climate emergency in September 2019, and I believe that more than three years have passed, and this, this initiative and the enterprise like this, I think, has been a long time before these groups have been able to carry forward such enterprises. So I do a little self-critic. He may, in some way, be justified. In fact, I think we've all been waiting a little while during this legislation because the law of myrgetic transition and climate had to come, just as the scientific planet would have to come. And I think that most of us understood the place to make so many proposals, that this was the time, especially the condition of the climate. And it's getting a lot behind us. Deucho, I believe, and the President also said that the transition here is to be committed to the most general policy and to the climate change. If commitment is in word, but I think we're being delayed too much, and it's not quite natural and it's not quite acceptable that we're not in the Basque Autonomium yet, in order to regulate the resectoral expansion, or even that the law of the climate and of the neurogentic transition should not be in force, as it is in many other places, because the transition... the necessary transition to carry this necessitical transition forward. That's where I leave it, because the President's here also asking for the law of the climate change I've just said, and the effort to make the PTSPs as fast as I can, because it's very urgent and very necessary. I'm done. We wait for your vote and your opinions. And I mean I think it's a good sign today that maybe it's a little sign. It is clear that the acceleration with the steps we take today will not be enormous, because necessity is very large in the retended energy camp. But we send a good sign to society, to society. To make it easier, we make a little progress. It's a little step, but it's a step ahead, and I want to put that in value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u3	Mila esker, mahaiburu andrea. Lehendakari, Members of Parliament, very good morning. Despite the fact that the scientific community has been warning for years of global warming and how harmful it is to continue to use fossil fuels, in our society we have taken years to make the necessary decisions to prevent this warming from happening. As a result, agreements, strategies, plans, recommendations have been adopted from different institutions, from different levels, as they have said, to promote the use of energy from renewable sources, establishing clear and concrete objectives, such as the 2030 and 2050 horizons. In one way or another, policies against climate change are cross-cutting, and should include areas such as housing, urban planning, mobility. Today we take one more step in the area of urban planning. And as is well known, the promotion of energy installations intended for self-consumption, both individually and collectively to produce clean energy and advance energy sovereignty, is a priority for our training. And we have demonstrated this with various initiatives presented in this Parliament, including the creation of a public Basque energy company to advance sovereignty through energy cooperatives. And while there was no debate here, in Catalonia last week a public energy company was set up very similar to what we have proposed in this Parliament. In Catalonia they also have their Catalan Energy Institute, with its functions similar to those of the EVE. But there they have fully understood the need to create a public company specialized in generating and marketing energy. And we bring back this debate of the public company Energia, because if it is possible in Catalonia or in Balearic Islands, where the initiative like the one we are debating today, that of the regulatory change of urbanism, was approved in 2016. And we like the project of the Norwegian company Statkraft, it is possible that Euskadi also has its own renewable public energy company. We believe that it is very necessary and urgent to reduce bureaucratic obstacles to the promotion of energy self-consumption, or the charging points of electric vehicles. We believe that speeding up the procedures and replacing the urban license with a prior communication is a very positive initiative, provided that it promotes progress in energy sovereignty, and that it is also environmentally friendly. In this sense, promoting energy self-consumption facilities on buildings or urbanized soil, such as parking pergola, meets both requirements. Since we managed on the one hand to speed up the citizenry's ability to produce all or part of the energy it consumes, and also to reduce the electricity bill, reduce its dependence... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...to accelerate the ability of citizens to produce the energy they consume in whole or in part, and also to reduce the electricity bill, to reduce their dependence on authoritarian countries or on energy oligopoly. But we also managed to take care of the environment and biodiversity by not occupying rural land or protected areas and to locate these energy installations in cities or urbanised land. As we said when this debate took place in Navarre, it is necessary to bet on the energy transition, distinguishing between the energy that is used for business and that which provides well-being citizenship. And the latter is a social policy that must be encouraged. For all this, we are going to vote in favour of dealing with this initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Since there are no reverse shifts, we'll go to the vote. [[Pause]] Now that the dispute is over, we will vote whether the proposition of the law be considered or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table are 72; the votes are 72; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 1. Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u5	The law, therefore, has been admitted to, or the proposition is taken notice of. After that, we'll go to a vote. Mystto-Vox has to take the word? No? The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u6	Egun on, good morning, Mr Lehendakari, parliamentarians. In view of the bill that Bildu brings us today, I explain the meaning of our vote. We consider it appropriate to bring this amendment of law in order to deal efficiently and effectively with the new challenges of the 21st century, adapting it to the path marked by the European Union to renew the authorization of the authorization technique prior to the circumstances in which it is required by the aforementioned principles of necessity and proportionality, which means the reduction of a large number of existing urban licenses and their replacement by a system of subsequent administrative intervention through responsible declarations, with the consolidation of public-private collaboration in this field as a guarantee of their effectiveness, particularly in the municipalities that are to manage a large number of applications. On the other hand, the expected economic forecast for this year, as well as for the coming years, points to a clear deterioration in macroeconomic indicators such as sectoral and employment indicators following, in principle, the health crisis caused by the covid as well as by the Russia-Ukraine war. In this sense, the expectation of worsening the rate of growth of the Spanish economy and, consequently, of the Basque economy, as well as the world economy, augurs for the short-term concurrence of a recession, which obliges economic and sectoral policy decisions to avoid further slowdown. In the face of a problematic economic situation, the Basque Autonomous Administration must place special emphasis on those reforms that improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the productive fabric, thus counteracting the demands of an adverse economic cycle. In this regard, it should be noted that the current law gives rise to waiting times for the conduct of very long urban activities. These long deadlines either penalize our community or unnecessarily increase the cost of all economic activity for its development or drive investment away. In short, this type of unnecessary administrative burden hinders the survival of solar plate plant promoters, thereby increasing the intensity of job destruction. Government action must therefore be aimed at improving regulation, generating efficient rules, simplified procedures and effective institutions to facilitate the smooth functioning of productive activities and thus growth and economic development. Therefore, after the above, and in the current texture in which we are caught up in the fight against climate change through decarbonization, all this aggravated by war, we have an obligation to review and change the current legislation for its effectiveness and efficiency. I tell you that we will be happy to participate and amend this bill as soon as it is processed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Socialist Basque, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u8	Madame Chair, President, chief of departments, good morning to all. The law of the earth is almost all that has to be said of the change, by the hand they have already made before me. We live in a deep and ecological transition which ought to be founded on the solid principles of ecological justice. As a starting point, the difference... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... we live deep in a transition which ought to be founded on the solid principles of the ecological justice. As a starting point in this society with the problems of differences, any ecological transition, any production, economy, or any change of the pattern of culture would have to result in the terror of the output state. With this great opportunity of change, the perpetuity of old differences and injustices which we have long borne would be unacceptable. We cannot allow the old patterns of inequality and injustice that we have been dragging for too long to be perpetuated in the face of the great opportunity for change that is opening up before us. That is why the Socialists have firmly committed themselves to electric self-consumption as one of the fundamental pillars of this just ecological transition. Firstly, because it is a way of democratising access to energy. It is about pulling electricity out of the hands of those who have been doing business with it for decades, to make it available to society. It is no wonder that those governments of the People's Party were alarmed at this unstoppable current: democratization of energy, empowerment of society, ending the juicy business that has given so many joys to a few. It will always weigh on the back of the Populars the slab of the sun's tax. A tax that will pass into history as the most shameless measure to favor a few to the detriment of the majority. Fortunately, that long Sunday afternoon that Mariano Rajoy's government assumed came to an end. One of the first steps of the Socialist Government was to break the dam that prevented the deployment of renewable energies, and especially those linked to self-consumption. We abrogate the infamous sundown. We approved the compensation and sale of energy surplus of self-consumption. We approve the collective self-consumption, allowing for the sharing of photovoltaic installations among several people. We have defined a road map for the deployment of self-consumption, with the aim of achieving an installed power of 14,000 megawatts/hour by 2030. And we have invested more than 600 million, expandable to 1,320 million to facilitate such deployment. We have destroyed the tribute of the sun. We have accepted the compensation and sale of the superfluous use of self-consumption. We've accepted a collective self-consumption by giving us a chance to share the photovoltal facility with several people. We've specified a range of self-consumption routes for 14,000 megavartium hours on purpose. We have invested more than 600 million euros, which can be extended to 1.320 million to ease the extent mentioned. In this deep crisis context, increased by the war in Ukraine, it is necessary to speed up the process of increasing retal energy. The greater security of supplies, and the more negligical autonomy will enable us to penetrate into the process. And to do this, we need to locate all the obstacles that prevent the deployment of renewable energies, and try to eliminate them quickly. And that is what we have agreed today in this Parliament: to remove, under certain conditions, the condition of a work permit for self-consumption facilities, at least to process it and to give it as a good thing. A proposal that has had the favourable report of the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, with socialist adviser Iñaki Arriola at the head, firmly committed to the transition and to ecological justice. Let's go this way. I've often said from this army that the people are worried about them. They feel fear and confusion in the presence of their complex stage, and to-day more than ever they look for answers to their institutions. Let's be in the position of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning. As you've seen it on the marker, we've agreed to the Basque Country introduced by the Collector. Once, by the way, I'd given you my reasons. But, on the other hand, I should say above all, because of consistency. First, because the proposition of the climate change which we shall vote for is present, and because, as we have often said, there is need of small projects in this country, which we now urge, both middle and great. Many years ago Michel Labégueri wrote that I could say in memory and not sing: "O new song, our people must have the way and the bridge, even in their houses, clear water. Not all of them live in the Euskakia enough, but I shall still need a song and two songs." And that's what we've been talking about since PNV for the last 40 years, and we're really proud of our career. And we know that now that we are in front of another situation, we must advance another step, because our society demands us, because our planet demands us, because technology has come to another point and the time has come to decrease our dependence and to enable us to transition. We can do it alone. This government, this is crazy enough to start this process, to start with this plan, to start this dynamic. But we believe, as we are patriots, that as far as we are concerned, we have a public view, and we are convinced that, for this challenge, it is necessary to participate in all of us, and that we need agreements to examine our projects, always... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... that it is necessary for us to participate in all these things, and that we need agreements to speed up our designs, always in the disposition of our order and plan, and, of course, always in the default of our natural inheritance. 'A song or two,' said Labegerie. Well, a song: "We've got to take a walk along the road and win the future on foot." And two songs: "As long as we can fix the world, let us dance, let us dream. You and I are unstoppable together." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by Cardinal Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, the prosecution against the Border, and the declarations of hatred in our streets and villages, as a strategy for the defence of the Government of our fellow-citizens. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u12	Good morning, president, lehendakari, councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let us bring to this plenary a motion resulting from the question I had two weeks ago with the Councilwoman for Equality, Justice and Social Policy. And I am not going to extend much, because there is also an agreement signed; it still seems not to be spread, but will have it your lordships I suppose immediately. The interpellation that, I say again, developed two weeks ago with Mrs Artolazabal was marked because we were both convinced of the fundamental keys in which to work in order to advance socially for coexistence. That was the fundamental element: keys. There are issues, there is a way forward and, of course, there is a framework within which to act: the rejection of all expressions of hatred, harassment, violence, intolerance, physical or verbal aggression against certain persons belonging to certain groups, the exaltation of the violent, the homages to ETA, the constant protagonistism of symbols, banners, painted at certain sites and locations. All this clearly attacks our coexistence as it is so clearly identified, among other collectives, by the Observatory of the Radicality of the Basque Collective of Victims of Terrorism, which also does a thorough job of identifying all these expressions of radicality, which with hundreds throughout the year in our society. In the motion tabled by my group, I wanted to focus on some of the issues that might be better included or more clearly included in the Basque Agenda for Co-existence of the Udaberri 2024 Plan for Co-existence, Human Rights and Diversity. It is a plan that the Basque Government has, which was approved in September 2021, at least it can be published. And in that sense, it covers these four years of work, in one of its parts, for coexistence; and that we did go to a critical part, but we also understand that it is an element, an instrument of the Basque Government that we also want to use and that we want to put into value and that we bring to this plenary after the expressions of violence that we have all been able to see and that we kept the inquiry the other day. Therefore, it was very important in this plan, the Udaberri Plan 2024, starting from the context in which the situation of Euskadi was framed in 2021, to then deploy lines of action in the Agenda of Convivence. There are some lines of action and some lines of action that are clearly improveable or completeable or extendable. And in that sense, it is where we want to focus, because in the context of the Basque Plan and Agenda for Coexistence, this said, this hopeful look that spoke of the future – and, indeed, as we all think – in relation to our coexistence, becomes concerned at various expressions of violence, intolerance and sectarianism that still emerge in our environment. Painted, threatened, physical and verbal assaults, attacks on Ertzaintza are expressions of a culture of violence that still underlies in certain sectors and is incompatible with democratic coexistence; a critical look also before public ongi etorri to ETA express, et cetera, et cetera. That is, the context in which that plan moves and which we, of course, intend to improve. It is clear that then these lines of action can be developed, further developed, completed, understanding that the plan can be - and it is, and should be - this whole plan, like any other government instrument, but it has to be something alive; it is not something that is written, that is in a drawer. That is why we have brought him in, used him in the interpellation, and we have, of course, used him in this motion so that it can be completed. We're filing a motion. The motion urged the Government, the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, to include among the actions integrated into the lines of action of the Basque Agenda for Co-existence, Plan Udaberri, which I have already mentioned, those relating to the defence of the work of Ertzaintza, to the social recognition of it, and to the social reprobation of the culture of intolerance, violence and hatred. And we asked the government to establish the description and its location on the lines of action of Udaberri 24. Well, through the compromise amendment we can see that we can work on that circumstance in relation to the evaluation of the plan and in relation to the participation of parliamentary and political groups. So I think that element will be fine, and we certainly feel identified. I say again, three are the important issues. That was the counselor's answer. We shared vision at that time. Of course, a better implementation of the plan, surely; we can make a living document in which we can work, and it seems that the compromise will be to work on this equator of the legislature and the equator also of the validity of the plan, and two years that are, of course, left where the plan can be enriched. That is, it is clear that in order to build coexistence, the Government also has to put on the batteries. It has to be demanding at the head of society, so that these expressions of hatred, intolerance, violence can be eliminated; they are delegitimized and reproved permanently, as the Counsellor said the other day very well. That is why I have to start by thanking the amendments on our initiative, on our motion. I believe that it has been a constructive attitude that the parliamentary groups have taken in the debate that we were discussing. The group... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...amendments. I believe that it has been a constructive attitude that the parliamentary groups have taken in the debate that we were discussing. The Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and Elkarrekin We United Left have had things that have been reflected in the compromise amendment - which I certainly feel identified -. In the compromise amendment - which you do not have yet - I see. He said that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to continue its work in defending the work of the Ertzaintza. And I think that's fundamental, that's important especially knowing that Ertzaintza has a series of clear collectives or enemies who want to discredit it and want to attack it even or want to undervalue it. Well, I think that commitment is well - it's a little lower in the expression of what we put forward in the motion, but well - in any case, we feel equally identified. And to intensify - which is what we were looking for - to intensify the actions carried out within the framework of the plan, in order to continue to move towards greater coexistence in Euskadi, promoting the radical delegitimization of violence and the consolidation of principles, ethical and democratic values, promoting a culture, recognition, respect, dialogue, combating attitudes and hate speech. I believe that this is important, in addition to the second point raised by Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr Martínez, in relation to the balance sheet of the Plan for Co-existence, Human Rights and Diversity Udaberri 2024. I say again, it was approved in 2021. We're in Ecuador. And, well, you can share in this House the state of execution of it in the first half of 2023, gathering the contributions that parliamentary groups can make. I think it's okay and that can be enriching of those lines of action in which this plan of coexistence is articulated. We feel identified with the compromise amendment - I say again - which contains input from the amending groups. In my interpellation, the councilwoman... It has already become clear how serious certain attitudes are. And that is why we have brought this question, and that is why we want Parliament to remain a speaker that we can do much more. The Government, we, society in relation to social reprobation, in relation to delegitimization. That is, the analysis and identification and the neutralization of all those violent behaviors and attitudes, because they are elements that want to attack our coexistence and of course, we have to be very clear about what we have to do - as the country's main institution. A good time to reflect on the plan in this half of the legislature, and approximately two years after its approach or approval. And there are two others left for the development of their lines of action. I think we have been able to identify some issues that can be improved, I say again. We consider it very necessary, very necessary to carry out... To continue to send messages from the Basque Parliament to the society that we work for the coexistence of support for the work of Ertzaintza, the delegitimization of violence, social reprobation, speeches of intolerance, hatred, rejection of ongitorris, elevation of ETA. I believe that this issue is still clearly improved in what we can do as lines of action, recognizing also the value of the legal political instrument that we have on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u14	Good morning. And thank you, ma'am. We're arguing from the PP-Ciudados team again about an initiative on edge or edge attacks. Even in the plen before, we attacked an assault against a borderer. And in this way, this initiative, well, is not a new initiative, but we have succeeded in an agreement or agreement between two parties that at least hold the government. And then this morning, the PP-Ciudados have added to this middle course. We've got −nik, I think we've got a correction and a construction deal. Today, I believe that the initiative or motion, the interpellation that gives rise to this motion, speaks of the attacks received by the Ertzaintza. And I believe that today it is also fair to remember the murder 25 years ago of an inertza, of Txema Agirre, 25 years ago, this very week. Eta, zorionez, zorionez, biolentziaren garaia, biolentzia politicokoaren garaia, beasts of the native Iraqis; beasts momentuko biolentzia bat ari gara. Eta gizarteak eta bagita ére Eusko Legebiltzar honek aurrerapauso itzela eman ditu biolentziaren kontra, elkarbizitzaren alde éta memoriaren eraikuntzan. And in the face of the risk of oblivion we share that the truth and memory of all victims is the best of antidotes. And also for guarantees of non-repetition, marking anyone who banalizes what happened here: the joint fight against all political violence, against any attack on the mere fact of being in this and any other aspect of life. And therefore, that is the best path on the path of delegitimization of violence. As I was saying at first, we've signed a medium with the two sides that support the government, and also with the team's suggestion. And the terms of the first point, after all, the police's work... Well, in the course of defending the police or the bordering work, we agree, like − I always say, with the right of criticism in hand, but in defense of that job. And also the reason for the second point was that we said exactly the same thing about the motion that had been introduced in the week before the proposed team, when we always say the same thing to each other, "− despues de repudian, de rechazar o de condenum creemos que los conctivo es..." [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... after repudiating, rejecting or condemning, we believe that the most constructive thing is to see what actions can be improved to prevent these situations of political violence or harassment or such speeches from being eliminated, although they are extremely minority, fortunately, in our society, from being eliminated. That's why we put it in that built proposition, and I think that's how he reads the nationalistic side and socialistic aspects of spring Plan 2. The year... The next year will be the second year since the spring Plan started, so we'll have a rating or evaluation of that spring plan. The government will have to do it, but we thought that in this legislature we thought it would be a constructor to do this, and also in this −, in which case we would insist on receiving different contributions from the parlamentary groups, and also at the time of defining the enterprises of the next year. So that was our intention: To make a constructive correction, to find an agreement. And that's what's done, so we call the whole House to stand up for this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u15	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u16	President, ladies and gentlemen. We share the two axes raised by the People's Party motion. We share the social recognition of Ertzaintza, the political and institutional recognition of Ertzaintza. We did it seven days ago in this Parliament. We reiterate it again today. We won't get tired of it. And we also repudiate any intolerant action, any violent action, as we have been doing since time immemorial. Perhaps it would give a shade to the motion he has put forward, and that is that when he refers to intolerance as a culture, there is no culture of intolerance; there is the counter-culture of intolerance. Intolerance is quite the opposite, precisely, to any face of culture. And we also share, as a result of the dialogue and agreement, that the Udaberri 2024 Plan needs to be evaluated in a prudent time and that it can include those contributions that the groups consider appropriate to improve on a level of coexistence among Basque citizens. The previous time, seven days ago, I said in this very rostrum that we may be carrying too much ink to the Democrats for the need for coexistence. And for the lack of scruples of a few, very few, to exert episodes of violence. I still think so. I still believe that Euskadi is a country that already has a level of coexistence, tolerance, encounter, pluralism, extraordinary freedom and that the episodes against all this are fortunately very few. And it is - as I said earlier - those energetic, those intolerant, those who have to learn from coexistence, and not the rest of the citizenry. But, in any case, in this field of freedom, tolerance and coexistence what abounds does not harm. And that is why we have also arrived with Elkarrekin Podemos and with the People's Party to the transactional that has been presented. And that is what we encourage the whole House to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u17	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ertzaintza is always necessary. It is so when it treats victims of gender-based violence; when it provides courses in schools alerting to the risks of new technologies and social networks; when it guarantees security in traffic through controls; when it executes any kind of judicial decision. In short, it is necessary when carrying out any police action. "La Presence de la Bordera hace que nuestras calles san procios más secureo." This at least is what our party thinks, and I dare say that even the greatest part of the Basque society thinks the same. Part of the majority. The edge is, moreover, the nearest policeman, who works in the village, who has been playing the necessary part of the time to settle democracy in our own country, and who deserves the respect of our society. But one part of society has not taught the Border the respect our police deserve, not in history, even at this time. Borders must have suffered terrorism for many years. And once they have overcome this, they have continued many speeches and attitudes based on hatred. And if it was unacceptable, it is intolerable, because it is only another face of violence. And unfortunately, we've known such things in the past few months as Mutrikun, Gaste, and others that haven't been public. And our team, yes, it's always been taught... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... and others that have not been public. And our team, yes, it's always been taught solidarity and gratitude to the edges that have been exposed to such violence. The engagement of the Government cannot be doubted, and all the actions that have been carried forward are so manifest, all precise actions. He said that the commitment, solidarity, innumerable expressions of affection and all the work done by the Basque Government and the institutions to highlight the police work of the Ertzaintza and all the suffering they have had to endure for many years cannot be called into question. And there are all those concrete realities and actions that testify to it. For example, the Association of Victims of Ertzaintza, ASERFAVITE, participates actively in the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism. On 25 May 2016, the report on injustice suffered by the group of ertzainas and their families as a result of the threat of ETA between 1990 and 2011 was prepared and published. The Directorate of Human Rights, Victims and Diversity maintains a fluid and constant relationship of accompaniment and support to the families of the victims of Ertzainas. It is promoted and participated in public acts of honour to the victims of ertzainas. The Ertzaintza has already promoted acts of recognition, memory and tribute to those injured or deceased in service. In fact, today, following the custom of previous years, a tribute will be offered in the Plaza del Guggenheim to the Ertzaina Txema Aguirre Larraona, murdered by ETA on 13 October 1997, as has well recognized the parliamentarian of Elkarrekin Podemos, Íñigo Martínez. And, from here, I would like to send, as did the lehendakari yesterday by our group, our affection, our affection and our solidarity with Txema Aguirre's families and friends. And the initiative mentions the Udaberri 2024 Plan, which is also a demonstration of the Government's concrete commitment to Ertzaintza. A concrete and demanding and ambitious commitment to the search for a real and normalized coexistence in our country and in each and every one of the peoples of our country. In this regard, I must say that the text explicitly condemns terrorism and violence; in fact, the radical delegitimization of the unwarrantedness of terrorism and violence appears no less than six times in the document. The action line one of the plan reads: "Advance and consolidate policies for the recognition and reparation of victims of terrorism", and the action one of this line speaks of "Developing the document, steps to take in the recognition and reparation of victims of terrorism", which was approved at the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism at its meeting on 16 December 2020. And, in the sense of what I have just commented on, it is in the sense that we drafted the amendment to the initiative proposed by the People's Group, in order to highlight the document that had been prepared from the Department of Human Rights. We put it in value. We believe that it is a demanding document, we believe that it is a document that is intended to enhance the work of Ertzaintza, while at the same time ensuring normalized coexistence, and it is true that we have improved it, or our amendment has been improved or supplemented by the amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos, which requested the Government to make an assessment of that plan. We agreed on the date, that we understood that it was concrete to be able to make that assessment, and that is the commitment of the Government. I believe that what is done in the amendment, or what we commit ourselves to in the amendment, is nothing more than what the Government is doing: committing itself to evaluating the plan, and at the same time committing itself to receiving input from the groups. I believe that this is a common theme in both the department and the government as a whole, and that is what we are committed to. And in that sense, we have signed the transactional. I believe that all groups that have minimum ethical values, or that share minimum ethical values, and in that regard, I would like to welcome the fact that at least those groups have been able to have a common text on an important day, and also pointed out as today's in a matter as important as the one we are dealing with today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u20	Thank you, Madam President, good morning to you all. I want to begin by making a public recognition and showing our gratitude and affection to the Ertzaina Txema Aguirre, a hero who with his life managed to prevent the inauguration of the Guggenheim 25 years ago from becoming a dramatic attack on a catastrophe more carried out, as always, by the murders of ETA. This hero was killed at the age of 35, leaving a widow and an orphaned father child at the age of nine. The victims of ETA have their names and surnames, and it is our duty to remind them of it on the ultra-left abertzale every day, because there are also many victims, and all, moreover, would deserve a tribute. Having said that, I must confess to having felt a certain surprise when I read the text of the motion that is being debated today by the People's-Citizens Group, even more so after having followed closely the speeches of Mr Barrio and Councilwoman Artolazabal on this issue in the last partsession. It has surprised me that you propose to incorporate into the plan Udaberri 2024 actions for the recognition of Ertzaintza, and to end the violence of which you are the object of your agents, because we are talking about a very serious thing, and because the plan in question is of such a small category that, for example, to improve coexistence in this community, two actions of the kind: to develop the process of reflection and debate, youth, coexistence and future, or to create a graphic artistic element, symbol of the principles and values that sustain coexistence. So in view of both actions, we do not imagine that this Government will go beyond a proposal to attack those who attack ertzainas, those who from the seats of this Parliament launch all kinds of accusations against the Ertzaintza, those who pay defamation campaigns in public spaces against the Basque Autonomous Police. To fight and generate spaces in which to discuss the desirability of fighting or just protesting, perhaps also to shut up and look away, right? Everyone here knows that it is still a long and hard way to go to achieve the coexistence in peace and harmony of those who murdered and applauded murders and their victims... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... all of us here know that there is still a long and hard way to go to achieve the coexistence in peace and harmony of those who murdered and applauded murders and their victims. We all know that those who attack out of service, who want to live and live like the rest of the people, are sympathizers - when not affiliated - of Sortu, of Bildu, that is, of the Left Abertzale. And we all know that Bildu considers Ertzaintza an enemy to eliminate, that he does not lose the opportunity to make accusations about his way of acting. That on every occasion presented to you he sows doubts about his commitment to the defense of coexistence in our society. That every time she can, she launches and pays campaigns to stain her image and encourage the violent response of her puppies against her. And so much encouragement is bearing fruit: assaults on festive premises - happened in Vitoria, happened in Mutriku - and painted on walls and walls of our towns and cities. Proetera urban art, which has become a permanent collection of friends of violence. Political violence, violence after all, has names and surnames, and in the Basque Country it is called EH Bildu, Izquierda Abertzale, heirs of ETA, nostalgic of terrorism etarra, secessionist left. They choose the one they prefer, because all names lead us to the same people, to the same ideology. And I insist, everyone here knows that, as they themselves know. We are fully aware of the campaign against Vox, led by PNV and EH Bildu, supported by PSOE and Podemos. Against a political option to which all evils are attributed, but to which no violence of any kind can be attributed. We are also aware of that other campaign, in this case led by PSOE and supported by the PNV, to erase the many shames of the Abertzale Left, its intimate relationship with ETA, its connivance with terrorism, and its constant legitimization of violence as a tool to make politics. Let us not forget that Bildu refused very few days ago to condemn the attacks suffered by two ertzainas at the hands of his puppies. They reject, but they do not condemn. And then they throw all kinds of sufflamas at a police force that, like others - Civil Guard, National Police - have fought terrorism and terrorists. And what are we going to do? Keep moaning? Continue to promote uplifting statements that serve no purpose by telling them that they are very bad, and then agree with them? Because that's just what's going on. These are bad people. These are the people who most compromise coexistence in the Basque Country. They are the ones who lavish serial killers when they get out of jail, extortioners and kidnappers when they step back on the streets of the villages where their victims live. And if they do, it's because they let them do it. Because those who have the capacity to ban, prosecute and condemn have decided to profile and let them do it. Concrete actions, and not meaningless words in a romantic name plan, spring. That's what we need, concrete actions. Prohibition of tributes to the ages and persecution of those who organize them, who summon them and who pay them. It condemns formally and forcefully those who do not condemn and continue to legitimize terror as a way of doing politics for those who still advocate the elimination of their political opponents. Protagonism in ETA's terrorist textbooks as the main negative conditioning of cohabitation in Euskadi in the last four decades, so that young people do not forget who is the enemy of peace, who is behind so much death, so much infamous attack, so much persecution and harassment. And if we are talking about concrete actions, which are not what this Government has incorporated into its Spring Name Plan, why not condition progressions of degree and transfers to the Basque Country to the collaboration of murderers and kidnappers, for the clarification of hundreds of unsolved age crimes? These are real performances and not create a graphic artistic element to improve coexistence. Collaboration and clarification would allow many victims to take giant steps towards forgiveness that in the current situation is unthinkable. It's very difficult. In order to move towards this coexistence, this Government demands that the victims make an effort that does not require the aggressors. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party-Citizens, today I expected more strength. Or do we believe that with the notebooks of memory, with dossiers on every unfinished procedure, we are going to mitigate the pain of the victims, who know that the killer of their father, their mother, their sister, their son, their grandson, are not paying for their murders? We listen to Councillor Erkoreka refer to the defamatory campaigns against Ertzaintza as a form of freedom of expression, when what is needed are decisive actions against their promoters, their enforcers and their financiers. Bildu's new attack on state security forces and bodies with his "Alde hemendik", carried out these days, is it not a hate crime either? Incorporating concrete actions in Udaberri 24 to eradicate violence against Ertzaintza is the same as doing nothing, it is parrot chocolate. Another thing would be for this Government to fund public and official recognition campaigns for the Ertzaintza, the state security forces and the army, for their contribution to the fight against those who make peaceful coexistence impossible in the Basque Country. By the way, with many dead in their ranks, precisely for defending us from them. You know that you would have relied on our support if you had asked for force, action, to make a common front before murderers, kidnappers and palm trees; but we cannot help extend that curtain with which nationalists and socialists want to hide their inaction and their usual association with Bildu. And you know that this is the case, that with its attitude this Government does nothing but pave the way for those who continue to claim in the streets the so-called heroism of the murderers, increasingly and increasingly brazen. And I will also stop at the amendment you have made today, because it is a little mermaid singing. What they tell us is that the Government is doing and that all we need is to continue doing it. When in reality it is not done, because if something were done, today, today, our streets would not be flooded with age-old banners and age-old symbolism, and allowing this symbolism. Ladies and gentlemen, with your words and your inaction you are passing a very valuable time to bet decisively on coexistence. They're letting go of opportunities to demand Bildu and kidnappers to apologize for the damage caused. To recognize their terrible mistakes, to renounce all kinds of violence, whoever their goal is; to work with judges and police to bring peace to so many homes where victims still mourn their families, without knowing who was taken away from them; to end tributes and campaigns of pressure and harassment. You choose: words or action... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... without knowing who took them; to put an end to tributes and campaigns of pressure and harassment. You choose: words or action. In Vox we are clear that "action", and the more forceful, the much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u21	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u22	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Today's initiative seems to me to be perfectly retivative, and I don't know whether such a feeling of déjà vu as you share with me. Mr. Barrio, when you made an interpenetration to Mrs. Artola generous, you were constantly referring to the discussion of the previous evening. And I'm not against the decision taken by the desk, but by this means that PP has no initiative, that he doesn't have any recipe for this country, he goes on again, trying to strain his co-operation, and that he's still working on his obsessions, I'd say desperately. It's okay, because that's the way he's going to play political resolution. I heard you in the interpelation, Mr. Barri, I have to say with less interest from −, and this time in a collision with the government, you wanted to put him into a discussion because you didn't like the spring plan. And now I don't know if you've consumed it because you've finally reached a middle-way, which's completely declamative, it's not really picking up the actions or specific measures you've brought, and it's only an expression, is it? And, well, you've agreed not to take any additional initiative with your signature, and, well, I'm grateful too, Mr. Barrio, when you bring in the initiative when you ask for someone to arrest, arrest someone, put somebody in a state of active hearing, always to cause pain to someone, to take revenge on somebody, or act on somebody, but you don't plan it. I, perhaps from a contrary point of view, am not on behalf of the spring plan, I said −, because he is partial, because he steps the victims instead of equalizing them, and, as Mr. Díez has said, because some of the victims are very large references, but other victims have disappeared from this plan. And when that came up, we made it clear. This time, there will be two years of balance, so I'll show up my position. It's not my plan, the spring plan is not the plan we'd have wanted, but we're going to abstain from this agreement that we've brought. Gentlemen of the PP, I believe that you intend to draw a situation of social radicalisation which, fortunately, happens only in your minds, in your imagination. I think that today you are out of reality, and that you want to bring us another parallel that just as, perhaps, benefits you in something. You start from false premises, and so you also come to absolutely false conclusions. Do you really believe that this society is more tense than it was 10, 20 or 30 years ago? Or is it precisely what interests you, bringing these initiatives? Tension her, to see if, as you have lost social muscle, you recover a little with these kinds of initiatives, to better place yourself in a scenario where I have to say that you do not place yourselves. Do you really perceive a radicalized society? Do you really think that this society is eager to go back, to parameters of the past, to fortunately outdated times? I do not know why they do not want to assume that steps have been taken, giant steps have been made, in the coexistence in this country. It's the same because it's something against what you've always been, because it doesn't seem to rent you. You, I believe, bring insignificant facts in a generality, to which you want to give some entity to simulate that you have initiative. No initiative, of course, to respond to the problems of citizenship. I know you're upset about freedom of expression, but I'm not sure what the message is that now obsessesses you. I don't know what we're talking about. I do not know if the problem is the message of "Euskal presoak, Euskal Herrira", a message that has the support of 91% of this Parliament. I don't know if "Presoak etxera" or "Presoak kalera" is what worries you. Article 1 of the General Prison Organic Law: "The primary purpose of the prison institutions is the social reintegration of the prisoner. They are also responsible for providing assistance and assistance to inmates." That is, social reintegration. In other words, to return to your society, to return to your family, to return home; to go out on the street. And yes, we also claim, like this article 1 (a) of the General Prison Organic Law, that they receive assistance and that they receive help, and that they receive solidarity, to all inmates while in prison. And I don't understand what the problem is. I don't know what they're trying to do: never go out? To violate the law, even more, to extend the sentences until they die in prison, something that has not happened a few times? Do they suffer neglect, neglect, rot in prison, have no right, have no hope? Perhaps this is precisely what they want, even if it is wrong to say so. I don't know what the problem is. I don't know what a sign is, a sticker, I don't know what a banner is, an anonymous pint, I don't know a T-shirt. I don't know what to give... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... I don't know if it's a sign, a sticker, I don't know any more about an anonymous pint, I don't know a T-shirt. I don't know what you're trying to give him the category. If there's a message on a wall, it's a scandal, it's not allowed. But lately I see many messages against certain particular victims in the nets, which are offensive and menacing, and they speak nonsense because they may have a new position against certain particular victims. And I don't see that worrying about you, Mr. Barrio. Perhaps those who offend the victims are not far from your political position. I say that they are concerned with facts of little relevance, anonymous, spontaneous authors, without a concrete political fatherhood. And this reminds me of the known Streisand effect. This happens when a small fact has occurred, of which no one has knowledge, of which no one has any idea, which is publicly denounced to drum and platter and which makes everyone know it, which gets exactly the opposite effect: that when it is denounced, then people have knowledge and then they start to give it entity. I would say that it is perfectly applicable to these cases of which no one knows, you do not know what facts you are referring to, and I do not know what strategy someone, perhaps, is delighted with the political projection, with the communicative dimension that you are giving them today with this initiative. And I don't know if with this attitude it will deter or encourage them to continue to do so. Because I think they actually want to give you a stratospheric relevance to bring in initiatives here, to breastfeed on this subject, twice in two weeks. Something that, by the way, would show that they care very little about the revictimization of the victims they claim to protect. And that this argument is simply instrumental for other partisan interests that you have bringing in these initiatives. We go to ours, we get to ours. We started a way to make a living in order to strengthen our co-operation. We knew that life was not easy, we knew that it had powerful enemies, there were many temptations to stay in the past or to turn back to the past. We knew it wouldn't be easy, but we're still going to fight that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u24	Thank you, President. I also wanted to join in the excited memory of Txema Aguirre, 25 years ago today of his murder, and, of course, from the People-Citizens Group to do so clearly. And extend that agreement to all the Ertzaintza agents killed, killed, and all their families. Well, if in the end we criticize because we criticize. I mean, we criticize the documents that the government presents, because we're not here, because we have to be... If we take them in and use them to enrich them, that also annoys some. In this case, some parliamentary spokesman, Mr Arzuaga, was annoyed. Me in the... It's just that I'm talking about the Udaberri Plan and I'm talking about what the plan says. And that's why... And I think it's right when you talk about outstanding subjects. Carmelo Barrio doesn't say it, nor does the PopularCitizens group say it, is that the Udaberri Plan, an elaborate plan, says it. So I share it with others. Not you. You're trying to tell me that I'm getting off my sleeve, no, no, no, the Udaberri plan says so. And the Udaberri Plan so the subjects are still pending. Before I read him another section of the hopeful look, but he still has worried expressions, worried look. Well, well, it also says in this plan "that the social construction of a shared memory, based on the principles of truth, justice and a critical reflection of the past". And it says "a critical reflection that particularly challenges ETA and its political universe," which is you. I mean, I don't make this up, this says a paper prepared with experts with... Well, we have been told that it is an objective element, country, context, in 2021, that will be employed for four years. So one of the strategic lines of this plan or the agenda has to be in that delegitimization of what the plan says, of the pending subjects. I mean, you're still part of the pending subject, the coexistence of this country. This is still a negative part of the outstanding subject in this country. You mean to tell me that I'm repetitive. Well, then, if that is your disqualification from the position because I bring this debate here. What I think is that this debate makes no sense to you. And it hurts and it shakes him a lot. And so, well, as it develops a series of approaches, it minimizes the situation of... the serious situations that happen in this country, somehow justifies the fact of freedom of expression, direct attacks on the victims of terrorism, is pleased in that situation as, well, a normality that we do not know how to understand. What do we have to understand? What do we have to understand? The victims of terrorism say so, the Basque Government's documents say so. Mr. Arzuaga, look, I'm happy with the deal today. I'm happy. Mrs Martinez also told me that it seems that I do not know, that I fold a little. No, I don't have to justify myself, I already think my political position already you know it, you know it everyone and I don't have to justify myself in relation to whether I go down, or not. I thought the deal was a good one. And I made an inquiry to the counselor the other day, we basically agreed. We talk about the pending subjects, we talk about... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... If I go down, if I don't. I thought the deal was a good one. I asked the counselor the other day, we basically agreed; we talked about the outstanding subjects, we talked about the need for Ertzaintza's work, we talked about social reprobation, we talked about delegitimization of violence. And that's where I'm staying. And we have an instrument that we can work on. It says you're not so concrete... Well, it's just that we're being given a margin of work, too. Of course, we're in a Parliament. Fortunately, we have enriched the parliamentary debate, opening up an evaluation and opening up the possibility of a political debate, at the beginning of next year, on these issues, because this document and this plan still has a two-year course. Well, that's fine with me. Moreover, it is possible that this approach that we take in 2023 will continue to continue in future plans, which I am sure will be, because this, in principle, concludes in 2024. Well, let's do that review, let's see. And we are also going to move in the context that you and I share and that we have said, that this is the context that also says the Udaberri Plan that I read in the first part of my speech, the first intervention: that hopeful look that becomes concerned, because there are a number of issues of expressions of violence, intolerance, sectarianism, attacks on Ertzaintza. It's just the plan says so. So, in that sense, let's see how we can work to improve that. That today was... He told me I've been a bit of a pain in the ass. I am very strong, but today I liked to seek an agreement - and I have found it, and I have succeeded - on this issue. I think it would do well to change the meaning of your vote to positive rather than abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u26	Well, since you're true to the truth, Mr. Barrio, I think you've met the deal, and I'm glad you signed it. I want to... and I usually say it when we discuss these issues, that I think it is also time for some of the speeches we have heard today and how we are doing the debates... At least when I go to talks organised by different associations – I don't care, victims' associations, by the Social Forum – the debates are even more advanced than what we are doing here in Parliament. And I think it is also time for us to move on to that stage and for all the groups to move on to the stage that they are marking and leading Basque society in a very plural form as a whole. I also believe that the rejection of condemnation, of all aggressions and of all signs of intolerance, which I believe is the way on which we have to unite, has also led us to talk about the Udaberri Plan 24, which in three minutes, obviously, I will not repeat. It is not the plan of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida either; it is a plan that has many positive aspects and many incomplete aspects - as we have already mentioned - and not just in this matter, because it is a plan, perhaps, too ambitious on the issues it deals with. But, well, the perspective of integrality is also positive, but it is difficult to implement - I was going to say in the first round - but we share that perspective of human rights. But, well, in that sense, we welcome the agreement - as I said in the first point - and we will continue to work; and I hope that it will come in the first half of 2023 to present the balance sheet of these first two years of the plan and that we will also have the opportunity to see the comprehensiveness of the actions and to see the proposals for improvement that from our group, as in the presentation and also in the previous meetings that were made, will do them, but good. Some things have also been heard in this House, accusing the other groups, all the other groups, of certain things, and I believe that there is not enough democrats' varnish around the world to give the far right of Vox the minimum democratic varnish. And I always tell you, you're here thanks to a handful of votes, but thanks to the set of Democrats in the Basque Country, we get a democratic system, for all (differences?) So that you too, unfortunately, are present in this Parliament, with your speech of hatred and intolerance. And, of course, you will not share the Udaberri 2024 Plan as you do not share any minimum human rights in this world, in this state or in the Basque Country. You, with a speech always of hatred and intolerance and death to intelligence, which is what represent your ideas, which has just come from a festival in Madrid calling to return to 1936, which is what you have done at your death feast to intelligence, never better said. Therefore, as much as you want to give yourself a democratic varnish, you are here, we have to listen to you, but we have to fight that return to 36 with plans like the one that has been talked about today and with joint actions by all people who defend democracy against hate speech, against speech of reaction and against speech of death to intelligence. Therefore, we are not going to fall into that trap of legitimizing them as another force in the defence of human rights, because they represent quite the opposite. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u27	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr Pricee... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u28	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Firstly, Mr Martínez, I believe that when initiatives, or in this case amendments, are born constructively, it is easier to reach agreements. And in that regard, I must thank you for your initiative, or your amendment, being born in a constructive spirit. But I have to say one thing too, and that is that when the initiatives to the amendments in this case call for something that the Government usually does or is customary to the Government, which is to evaluate the plans that are being carried out and, at the same time, to commit themselves to collecting the contributions of the groups that, as I said in my first speech, is something... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... It is customary in the Government to evaluate the plans that are being carried out and, at the same time, to commit to collecting the contributions of the groups that - as I said in my first intervention - are common in both the department and the Government as a whole. That, indeed, combined with the constructive spirit of your amendment, has made it much easier to reach agreement. And Mr Barrio, I believe that the subconscious has failed you, because I do not know whether you have found the agreement or the agreement you have found, but, well, in any case, we are very happy to have been able to sign this agreement, as I said in my first speech. And, Mr. Azuga, you asked some questions, you didn't ask us, but, well, I'd like to answer. What do you ask is that modern eroscal society is more radical, or that social partnership is worse than that of ten years ago. Of course, it's better. Of course it's better. But since it has improved much, it does not take off the fact that there are many other things to be improved yet, or that there are. And we want to put focus there. We've improved a lot, but we still have a lot to improve. And there's still something to do with the Basque Country and the Basque Country. And I think that's the important thing. It also seemed to me to understand that it has referred to these facts or acts that we want to condemn firmly today, which are attacks on ertzainas in certain peoples of Euskadi, as facts of little entity or which nobody knows. It seemed to me that he meant them like that. I think it's troubling. In the event that you consider them facts of little entity, because we consider them facts of a great entity; it is that they are very serious facts; it is that there are people who by their profession cannot enter certain bars, cannot go to certain streets and cannot participate in the festivals of their people. These are made of a lot of entity, a lot of entity for us. And in case you meant that no one knows them, because I would find it worrying, because I don't know which streets you are in, I don't know which bars you go into or what friends you have, because I have friends who are ertzainas and who don't want to go to certain bars for comfort, because they have had episodes that have been complicated for them. And that is something that we need to eradicate from the coexistence of this country immediately. And for that we also need you, we also need you. This is something of the country as a whole, of the political forces as a whole. And to eradicate this intolerance that still exists today, which is obviously and fortunately much less than it was ten years ago. It was just missing. But it still exists. We need all of us. Eta gero bukatzeko, gustatuko litzaidake beda ere hausnarketa bat Egypt, ze gaur egun... Gar etorri gara honora eztabaidatzera ertzainek sufritzen edo paratzen dituzten erasoei buruz. Eta zu agerra gaur hemen hitz egiten prisoner eskubideen buruz... Eske guk aitortzen ditugu zentzuk say prison eskubideak, baina eske lehen esan doubtan that we share a common minimum ethical, we refer to that. That when it comes to attacks on ertzains, we condemn all attacks on ertzains. And when we have to talk about the rights of prisoners, we will talk about all the rights of prisoners. But today it was a day, first of all, to condemn the attacks on the ertzainas, to highlight the work being done by the Government and the Udaberri Plan to recognize all the suffering that the ertzainas and the ertzainas have had to suffer, and all the work that remains to be done. And if we go a little further, today is also a day to remember Txema, the ertzaina killed while doing police work at the Guggenheim. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Listening here to Mr. Arzuaga go out and make that ideological political pirouette that he always does to come out of rositas, is something we're used to. I was talking about straining cohabitation, Mr. Arzuaga, you. Tensioning coexistence is what you do every day in the Basque Country and it is what we have to suffer all those who live in this society. They act - as you well know - in the purest style of the Calabrian mafia, and they do so daily. Example, the current campaign against the "Alde Hemendik" Civil Guard, does it ring a bell? Because you've spread it a lot on social media, you'll be proud of it. I wonder who you are to determine who may be and who may not be in the Basque Country. Because many of the civilian guards you refer to have been born here and are as Basque as you are. So the first thing you have to do is to respect the whole of society - as you very well say - and not to turn away those who are not interested in their political ideology. Because thanks to them and all the other security forces and bodies of the state, many of us are here alive today. Perhaps this is defined by them as freedom of expression, Mr Erkoreka. I would like you to one day define what you consider this coven that Bildu's have done against the Civil Guard, and that they daily do against all the security forces and bodies of the state that bother them so much. I would like to know, because I did not consider it freedom of expression, I consider it a hate crime. And I think that's where we should meet. Because he was talking about prisoners needing to cover all their rights, Mr. Arzuaga, and the victims? What rights and hopes have all those victims that their friends have killed over decades of terror in the Basque Country. That's what I'd like to hear. And to say that to hear Mr. Arzuaga say that they will follow his thing, to me the truth that gives me a little bit of fear, because I do not know which way is yours. So far we know which one is, I don't know which one they're going to take and choose now. And Mr. Martinez Zatón, get in touch, because I think intelligence is something that you lack. In principle, because you don't understand what you're hearing. Sometimes you have to listen and understand. Do not interpret to the free will what you want, but there is - I repeat - listening and understanding what is heard and what is read. Because you say you don't have to let us talk about Vox. I'm sorry, you didn't put me here. Neither you nor any of those who are here. We've been put by the voters who have chosen us to be here. And we have as much right as you have to say in this rostrum what we have to say, of course, with much more respect and education than you have every day in this rostrum, I also have to say to you. I remind you there's a hemerotheque. I don't think I've ever insulted anyone or disrespected anyone, as you do every day against a political force... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... In this atrium, I have to tell you too. I remind you there's a hemerotheque. I believe that I have never insulted anyone or disrespected anyone, as you do daily against a political force, which is the third political force in Spain, do not forget that you are talking about more than 4 million Spaniards who voted for Vox. And what you are, is increasingly insignificant, and your party. I remind you that they are less and less, and they have less and less representation in institutions, because for what you are going to stay in this community it is to be the cowards of Bildu, which is what you do every day: following and politics like that, you do not differ in anything, Mr Martínez Zatón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Azuga, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Díez, maybe I called it a retration just two weeks ago, because then we talked about the attacks on the edge. And I think it was plain that I was arguing with Mr. Atucha. I don't know, if you wanted to talk about it again today, I'll send you to read what I said there, because today I'd answer you the same. I was thinking today about other things. That's why the subject was also accepted from the table. Dela pints, posters, banners, and so I asked what the message was. What a message that upsets Mr. and Mrs. PP. In this case, to bring such an initiative. And they've brought us a lot of generic aggravations, but they haven't made any specifics. Do you want me to give concrete expression to an aggravation that happened yesterday precisely, and not on the part of an anonymous citizen who paints or posts a sign, but by an institution? Yesterday, the day of Hispanidad, the government delegate threw goras at the Civil Guard, the Armed Institute, the Civil Guard of the bathtub, the electrodes and the living lime. Yesterday, Mr. Denis Itxaso said that your work is known and recognized by Basque society. Indeed, the work of the Civil Guard is well known by Basque society. It is recognizable in thousands of roadblocks, arbitrary arrests, torture and summary and extrajudicial executions. The victims of the Civil Guard have expressed themselves. Institutional representatives should act with another decorum, with another responsibility, avoiding – which can be – humiliating all the victims of the Civil Guard. Truth was called humiliation by the members of Zoren Fundation. They caused our victims. This long shadow is the consequence of constant praise in this country of the Civil Guard. That's why we've asked for a few times a truce or a retreat. Because that's the way. Get out of here until it's all over. Today we are told that they intend to strengthen the culture of coexistence, but I immediately see that they use this as a bold weapon. Mr. Prieto said: "Here we are in coexistence, you come," and I would like to know under what conditions we must reach coexistence, how we come to that sacred olympic of your coexistence, and what conditions we must meet in order for you to accept us: if we must express ourselves as you express ourselves, if we must have the account that you have, if we must think as you think, if we must have the identical experiences that you have, or we must have the political project that you have. And you will understand that at that price we have a certain reservation, a certain scruple to accept that approach. Be careful to condition cohabitation, because that's no longer cohabitation, that's drag it, that's imposition. We will continue to work for coexistence, hopefully with all of you, but surely, with Basque citizenship, confidently with society honestly, listening to them and offering them our vision, our action for a future with more freedom, with more democracy and with more coexistence, in which all the rights of all people are safeguarded, how not, of all victims, how not, of all prisoners, and how not, that freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration, something with which some today wanted to climb, are also safeguarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. After discussion, we're going to vote for Popula-Ciudadans, together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Eukal Sozialists and Euzian Abertist, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 51; the contrary, 1; the abstainments, 20; the white ones, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u34	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos, which is the same as that of the parliamentary faction of the Podemos, concerning the covenant of the Nuclians in which the ANDI Armes are to Debe. Discipline and final resolution. It's the turn of the proposed team together, Mrs. Podemos-Nozzer, who represents the Animal Team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Since Russia invaded Ukraine, and since the war at Ukraine, many things have changed, many things have changed for the worse, and have become worse. And among them, there's one thing and there's fear of a nuclear threat... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] Many things have changed, for worse, they have changed, they have become worse. And among them there is one thing, and the fear of a nuclear threat has come again. Since the cold war was over, we had no such threat as it would really be capable of on our skin. And now it is. And it is not only fear, but fear, that rests on nothing, is a fear of one's own body. Russia has remarked clearly that she will do anything for her interest and for her defence. And the Secretary General of NATO has also been told to make nuclear maneuvers in the first place... (... ') making nuclear maneuvers. So, there's a fear as there weren't many years ago, a nuclear threat is something that's alive in our society. And that, even though it's 70. Sign in the years' decade... Sign it, even if it came into force, the agreement, the nuclear weapons, not the reproduction of them. Five states had nuclear weapons, five states decided to sign a contract like this. And although this agreement is now in force, we see that it is not effective. Why isn't it effective? Well, on the one hand, between those who have the 93% of all nuclear weapons, the United States is − from the other side of Russia because the relationship between these two forces is not very good. And on this subject, too, the controls and the action of one another are obstructed. Again, another thing happens, and this agreement does not include in it those which are tactical or not strategic weapons. And today, in this modern investigation, even in nuclear relations, even though nuclear heads have become less, even if they are different nuclear relations, they have increased. And that's also how the official investigations tell us that there is a reactional tendency to nuclear science. And on the other hand, what this compact does not possess, is that other states began to make nuclear weapons like −India, Pakistán, North Korea, Israel−. There are other states that have nuclear weapons, which are not included in this agreement. On the one hand, on the other hand, it's a matter of standing up... international agreement to limit nuclear weapons is not effective. And now we live a nuclear threat to our most prominent skin. So what? Well, 2017. in the year of the United Nations, a movement began to be made to sign another treaty. And since the 2021th year, now this pact is juridically related, already among the crematories. And this is the agreement, the Treaty, which forbids nuclear weapons directly. The Treaty of Prohibition, in this case of nuclear weapons, does so by filling a gap in international law because it prohibits nations from developing, testing, producing, manufacturing, transferring, possessing, storing, using or threatening to use nuclear weapons, as well as allowing nuclear weapons to be parked on their territory. We think this is the best way to prevent them from existing... that there is a nuclear threat, that nuclear weapons are prohibited. It's the only way, given the current situation. The fact that we do not possess nuclear weapons does not mean, moreover, that we lose sense in ratifying a treaty such as the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty. Because nuclear weapons are also a business. And today we have big banks, big investment funds, big powers, which are investing in nuclear weapons. In the signatory states of the prohibition treaty, banks, companies, universities or individuals are not authorized to contribute in any way to the development of nuclear weapons. So we would also have as indirect effects the signature of this... the ratification of this treaty, which stigmatizes manufacturers and nuclear-weapons holders. To delegitimize, to corner nuclear weapons. And of course also that a parliament like ours supports the ban treaty would also contribute to delegitimizing, stigmatizing and cornering nuclear weapons. We believe that, of course, the proliferation of nuclear weapons must be avoided. But we are of course convinced that the only realistic way to achieve this goal is by advocating the destruction and prohibition of nuclear weapons. The more support and ratifications have all the anti-nuclear treaties, the more pressure they will have the big funds, the big banks, to disinvest in this death industry. And the more international support the CTBT has, the more delegitimized the great masters of war and the nuclear powers will feel. In fact, this treaty, despite its short history, has already achieved 91 signatory countries, and 68 of them have already ratified it. In short, we believe that supporting the initiative we bring here today is of common sense. Nuclear weapons, no. Well, let's ban them... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...we believe that supporting the initiative that we bring here today is of common sense: nuclear weapons, therefore, let us ban them. But there is also another data, and with this data I would like to finish my speech. There is a data analysis platform, an international data analysis company, which is YouGov, which points out that in Spain 89 per cent of the population is in favour of the Government of Spain ratifying the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty. If this is the figure that is estimated in Spain, I do not think it is smaller in Euskadi. The people in Euskadi, our citizens, our citizens, would, mostly, overwhelmingly, be in favour of signing this international treaty. It makes no sense for us in this Parliament to turn our backs on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing the corrections to the teams of the Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u37	President, ladies and gentlemen. A man invented the nuclear bomb. A mouse will never build a mouse trap. We have reason to be concerned about nuclear weapons. In fact, for weapons of any kind used in war, for weapons used to destroy, kill and maim. We have reason to be concerned about the effects and results of wars involving biological weapons, chemical weapons, anti-personnel mines, cluster bombs, missiles, tanks, drones, etc. We have reason to be concerned about the threats of dictators, especially Putin. Threats that have partially met the attack on the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant in Ukraine, in breach of the internationally agreed basic nuclear security pillars. Fear of nuclear war is not an unfounded fear. Nor is there any certainty that it will occur. And, perhaps, doubt is the most complex part of the debate, although as long as doubt exists nuclear war will not have begun. Putin has twice threatened nuclear war: one, when he has signed the disposition of all weapons at his disposal to subject the Ukrainians; another, when he has denied that this would happen, because his claims and (denials?) they are an indivisible part of their criminal character. Putin talks with his weapons and gags the laws. Putin's weapons need to be silenced, and laws need to regain their voice. There are nine nuclear-weapon countries in the world: Russia, China, India, North Korea, Pakistan, Israel, the United States, the United Kingdom and France. Countries with very different political systems, models of freedoms and rights. Countries with close, distant, or confrontational international policies and relations. Countries with which Spain understands itself on a scale that goes from much to nothing. The capacity for the destruction of nuclear weapons, coupled with their mobility to achieve any objective throughout the planet, is sufficient reason to decide on their cessation of manufacture, their prohibition of use and their dismantling. 77 years ago the atomic bombs launched in Hiroshima and Nagasaki caused 200,000 deaths. Today's nuclear bombs can reach a power of 3,800 times greater. Part of civilization has considered this for decades, and that is why since 1970 there has been the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and since 2017 the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. As it is easy to deduce, nuclear-weapon countries have not joined the 2017 treaty. However, the 1970 treaty has produced results, even if these are not enough if it is taken into account that for 30 years to date it is considered that the world has gone from having 70,000 nuclear warheads to 13,000 nuclear warheads. Unfortunately, we are not in treaty times and we are in treatment times. We are in times when security is especially valued, when defence is valued and when, from policy and concerted action, defence systems are provided to those who have been invaded, violating international law. The political will expressed in the UN, in 1970, in the Cold War, in favour of peace and disarmament, had and has all the meaning, as expressed in 2017, wanting to take a step further. That target, in 2018, 2019, 2020 or 2021 was hopeful. After 24 February this year everything has been touched and affected. The margins of military policy have been moved, and it can no longer be approached only with desire: it must be done with realism and pragmatism. Some argue that an act of defense is already an attack. That weapons for defense are always a pretext for those who instigate wars. I maintain that if we had no more defense than that of the treaties, Putin and the Putins would have no limits to kill, invade and occupy. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in 1970, already recalled that states should refrain in their international relations from resorting to the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state. And in that treaty is the signature of Russia... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... the use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state. And in that treaty is the signature of Russia. Now Russia's signature is in the invasion, slaughter and spread of the threat. Spain, the Government of Spain is committed to making the use of nuclear technology only for peaceful purposes, just as it works for a nuclear-weapon-free world and supports gradual steps to advance the path of nuclear disarmament. Political position which we share and defend, and which reinforces our commitment to contribute to the creation of favourable conditions of peace, distension, confidence, which, unfortunately, are not now being given and which are so necessary to advance nuclear disarmament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u38	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. I must confess, Madam, that in her time, for three months (... ) he proposed, that this other proposition, as it is to-day, made me conspicuous, and I did not know very well what to think or how to interpret. It's true that I wasn't very focused on it because of the vacation, wasn't it? And he gave me the attention, I say, I didn't know quite what the purpose of the proposal was. After re-reading the legal proposal, I asked myself if the text was formally applied to the Basque parliament, in order to prevent nuclear weapons, or to discuss something else with each other here today. Because it has really been hard for me to know what the real fund of this GNP was. Because at times it seemed more like an intention to settle accounts between partners of the same government in Madrid than to ask this Parliament for a political position on such a serious, important and disturbing issue as nuclear weapons are. I believe that it could also be interpreted that its GNP invited this Parliament to intervene as an intermediary between the differences that they might have, and to sort out in some way the differences between the Madrid Podemos and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It is true that this is not the first time that they have brought their internal differences to this House. And I guess it won't be the last one either. And I will try to explain my doubts using only your text, the original text of your proposal, because I must admit that more than ever I have been deeply drawn to the attention of certain logic that you have used in this proposal. He says: "as part of an agreement with Podemos in September 2018, the Spanish government pledged to sign the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty." And later he also says that the agreement was concluded between the president of the Spanish government, Pedro Sánchez, and the leader of Podemos at the time, Pablo Iglesias. And yet, the signing of the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty is not part of the coalition agreement that emerged after the November 2019 elections and that no action has yet been taken. I really want to ask you, politely, and what does this Parliament care? Or what can this Parliament do to fix its internal discrepancies? Or is it that United We can't be as Spanish government as the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? But there is another part of the explanatory statement that I do not want to fail to mention because it also seems a little surprising to me, and you mentioned that YouGov survey on the opinion of the citizens of the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty. It says in its text: "taking into account the evidence contained in this document – the survey – we understand that the official position of Spain supporting the potential use of nuclear weapons and against the ban treaty does not represent the opinion of the majority of the population or of the parties that are part of the government". It does not represent the opinion of the majority of the population or of the parties forming the Government. But what I know, in the government are only Spanish Socialist Workers Party and United We can. Then what do they do in that Government if it does not represent the will of that Government? Therefore, I would say that the text is somewhat extravagant, if not mind-blowing. But, well, I want to address now the focus of the issue of this initiative, which is the current nuclear threat that is flying over us and which is a subject, for me, far more important or worrying than its internal cuetas. Last week President Biden warned that the risk of nuclear weaponry has been at its highest since 1962, that is, since the Cuban missile crisis. (...) Putin is not joking about the potential use of nuclear weapons. And today, the only ones who are agitating the nuclear threat in the world are, on the one hand, North Korea and President Putin, Vladimir Putin, and their puppets: former President Medvedev or the courageous Chechen leader Ramzan Kadirov, willing to sacrifice his three children aged 14, 15 and 16, to send them to the slaughterhouse to prove that he is not a coward. And, look, the only thing Russia has achieved since the beginning of this new invasion, since February 2022, is that two countries like Sweden and Finland, (...) for over 70 years, have been rushing to the door of NATO to call for their urgent accession. And seeing the behaviour of the present leader - tenant, rather - of the Kremlin, for it is not surprising either. And, by the way, on his initiative I have not seen – on his initiative – any criticism or mention of the constant threats... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It's not surprising, either. And, by the way, on his initiative I have not seen – on his initiative – any criticism or mention of Putin's constant nuclear threats to the use of nuclear weapons. You present your GNP for fear of NATO, and only for fear of NATO. And maybe they didn't even know that the previous weekend (?) the invasion of Ukraine, the Russian Army was carrying out military maneuvers in Belarus with ballistic warheads, and that Putin directly mentioned at that time, when he announced the invasion of Ukraine, mentioned the use of the nuclear weapon. Having said all this, it should also be pointed out that nuclear weapons are not needed to cause nuclear disasters either, because the occupation by the Russian Army of the former Chernobyl power station, in order not to know what, or the constant bombings, which Mr Prieto has also mentioned to the current operating power station until recently, in Zaporiyia, are a direct threat. And that weren't aim errors, they were voluntary bombings with bombs and missiles with intent to sow terror. Only this past Saturday, October 8th, there were ten rockets fired next to the power plant. And to conclude, believing that the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty is a kind of safe guarantee at all risk to world peace is – I think – a toast to the sun, but that's all it is, because those (?)have the nuclear weapon: the United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom, France, India, Israel, Pakistan or North Korea have not signed the treaty. And I imagine that Iran, which is pursuing the pursuit of nuclear weapons, will not have signed the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty either. And to me it seems great, it seems to me very good that it is signed by all the countries that do not have nuclear weapons, because it seems to be a political, ethical and moral commitment to improve this world, and on the basis of peace, but unfortunately, it is nothing more than a commitment to try to achieve a better world. And in conclusion, I'd say, I really hope you'll soon be able to get your internal problems and ('... ) The struggles between you and me, on one hand. Without having to bring some subjects into this legislature. And on the other hand, I want to remark that we're all here, and I thought, that we're against nuclear weapons, and that it's even more unacceptable to use these weapons. We all want a peaceful world without violence. But I'd say... ), that we shall vote our corrections, and that at the present moment no proliferacion. Prohibition doesn't make much sense in this world. That's what we think at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u40	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Little more I'll add. I will vote in favour of the full amendment tabled by Mr Aguirre and Mr Prieto, and I will join in. It is quite clear that the reflection, seeing this kind of political debate, or this political debate, an instrument for some internal objectives, is a political group that wants to be both government and opposition, I say in the same structure of organization of the state, because if you want to be government and opposition at the same time, your approach will be, but that is not explained in... You are not talking about this at the Governing Council of Spain, you are not talking in the follow-up committees of your Governing Pact, (?)) have not taken this initiative to the Congress of Deputies, which have voted the parliamentary groups that are represented there, what you voted, what your group voted, what you voted... I do not know, and use this a little bit... knowing, moreover, what is the position of the Government, which is what we have to understand, and what we have seen, the position of the Government because recently by the Secretary of State, Mrs Moreno, she has been in New York on 2 August representing the Government, and supporting only as an instrument and political structure of nuclear non-proliferation the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and saying absolutely nothing about other strategies talking about this issue, and that we must move along this path – the Government of Spain, your Government, in which you belong and your party is a member, has said – from where we must move, and which way we must develop. Him (?) a ban treaty does not appear at all, and in that sense, because today the formula is there. And?Spain has explained it very clearly, and has explained it very clearly many times. The most clear explanation was, at the time, Minister Dastis, who, of course, is the clearest position there has been, and who, of course, Mrs Laya, Mr Albares, has not moved, of course, from that interpretation in relation to the prohibition treaty, and is the position at the official end of the Spanish Government, because no one has said anything else. Spain is not equipped with nuclear weapons, and it said: "The Spanish Government is firmly committed to nuclear disarmament and to the goal of achieving a world without nuclear weapons, in line with article 6 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons". That made it very clear, that is, that commitment within that treaty, because that treaty sometimes contradicts and contradicts the subsequent treaty we are talking about, (?) not the prohibition. And that was also acknowledged by the Government, and that was one of the difficulties in, of course, making an approach to the assumption of that treaty. Spain has been an important part of the debate on the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons, and had an active participation in the conferences of Norway, Mexico and Austria on this issue, that is, Spain has been, and I suppose it will remain. We have seen that Mrs Moreno, Secretary of State of the current Government, has been in New York precisely to enhance the non-proliferation treaty, so that position that Dastis explained in the Congress of Deputies, is there. In spite of this, the Government explained, it did not support it in Resolution 7/2.258, of the General Assembly of the United Nations... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... At the Congress of Deputies, there it is. In spite of this, the Government explained, it did not support United Nations General Assembly resolution 7/2.258, which convened a conference to negotiate a nuclear-weapon-ban treaty - TPAN - and did not participate in that negotiation or its adoption. That was a decision taken together with the vast majority of European Union member states - we are part of a very clear political action club, that - and all the allies of the North Atlantic Treaty organization, NATO, except the Netherlands, which subsequently voted against the treaty. So in that sense it is quite clear that there was a political and reference position, (...) how treaties are assumed and how treaties are proposed. The state position, state position. That is to say, it is the one that still has this state, where you are a government. It also said, the text of the TPAN, adopted on 7 July, confirms to the Spanish Government that this instrument - it said, because it is also necessary to put data in relation to what the political or legal question - does not serve the purpose it claims to defend for a number of reasons, among which they highlight... So there is also an approach to... that it is not good, that it is not necessary or that it contradicts the other treaty that you propose to us. The text, which is part of a humanitarian consideration shared by the Government, does not take into account the security dimension, without which it is not possible to lay the foundations for a realistic effort to end nuclear weapons, and is not compatible with the commitments undertaken by Spain within NATO. Two. Some provisions of the text contradict the Non-Proliferation Treaty, a fundamental treaty to address the proliferation of nuclear and key weapons in international peace and security, the legitimacy and effectiveness of which could be seriously damaged by the recently supported CTBT. So there's a contradiction between the two. And the Government of Spain, its Government, on 2 August, was there, of course, defending and appreciating, and saying that that was the road map in relation to nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. And it said that, in addition, the text does not offer guarantees of verification to control compliance with its provisions. That is, it is a legally bad or incorrect text. Because that is a fundamental element in any disarmament treaty, which in practical terms would make any nuclear disarmament process impossible. That's the point. There are objective elements to understand that this treaty that you propose is not good, nor is it good. It has contradictions, it has dysfunctions, it has legal elements that are difficult to articulate. So... But we have another that of course leads to greater adherence and the purpose is also the same, the purpose is the same: it is nuclear disarmament, and the position of Spain in that regard. And that is what the Government was saying, which will continue to work, which I believe is what the current one will be doing. I do not know, with the delay that you have in favour of nuclear disarmament. It will only be feasible if a realistic approach is adopted, progressing gradually with the participation of the nuclear Powers and within the framework of the NPT, the legitimacy of which must be maintained if it is to remain effective in the face of the risk of nuclear proliferation. It said more things the answer. But, in any case, this answer is one of the clearest in relation to this issue in the Congress of Deputies. Minister Dastis said that in 2017, and of course, this position is the one confirmed by the current government at all times. He'll keep telling us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. The nuclear risk has been there, there it is, and now we can say that it's climbing. At present, even in the context of the invasion in the Ukraine, Russia has threatened to use its nuclear arsenal. A threat completely unfair. Meanwhile, NATO, manoeuvres with nuclear weapons have been announced to the purpose of disuasion. This scale shakes the risk of nuclear resistance. The Fourth World War will be with sticks and stones. This phrase is attributed to Einstein. The second, we all know, ended with nuclear weapons, and more and more scenarios and more actors are forecasting this third total war with the use of nuclear arsenals. It seems that today we have a semantic debate between non-proliferation and prohibition. But not to develop, not to increase arsenals is fine. But banning them from illegalizing these kinds of weapons is better. And that's the point. And it's simple. And I don't understand the debate we're having, frankly. I agree with the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, but I agree with their prohibition, as stated in article 1/A of the Treaty, of the prohibition, elimination or irreversible conversion of any nuclear weapon. Mr. Aguirre says it's a toast to the sun. I believe that this is an objective which this Parliament should support today. Prohibit, consider illegal this weaponry. Eliminate it. I think it is an objective that we should all share absolutely without any problem. According to the dictionary, proliferation is the increase in the amount or number of something quickly. That is, not to proliferate, it may be to increase in a more paused, slower way. Something, something, which I believe is happening today, because the risk of nuclear conflagration is indeed real and very dangerous. Not to ban them is to play with fire, never better said. And I don't say that. Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, says: "The world is just a mistake in calculating nuclear annihilation." How to play it to a miscalculation, ladies and gentlemen. It does not seem very safe, talking about defence issues, moreover, when this decision, when this calculation, depends on the military. Therefore, I understood that today we really came to make an allegation in favour of banning this type of weaponry. It seems simple, I said, but I realize it's not so much, it's not so much. Because other interests come into play, yes: politicians... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] I was saying, but I realize it's not so much, it's not so much. Because other interests come into play, yes: politicians, geostrategics, etc., but also economics. Because when the economic comes in, the possibility of doing business, then, what is reasonable, what is simple, what is natural, the logical disappears. In this legislature we listen to the Amnesty Internationale, we often appreciate what this international organization should tell us. He's the one who pushed the battle for the Deceku of Nukule, and the other. The Amnisis demands prohibition, but not today, we won't listen to this international organization, but we'll listen to another international organization, NATO, which is more powerful. It was here that this armed organization was refused, but this time we will submit because NATO said we can't show up for the prohibition agreement. The sperm has no nuclear weapons. So, what's the problem with signing and burning for this? Well, with economic interests, it produces, it develops, tests such weapons, and, of course, it has interests in exchange because it depends on NATO. I felt sorry for today's initiative, it's a shamus. Unfortunately, we have no jurisdiction, we have not enough independence to make a decision about it. We won't even survive. We'll ask the government, the Spanish government, to do some things. But I was thinking today that we could be ambitious, but it seems like EAJ and PSE don't want to be like that. And I'm really surprised, I'm surprised, because I thought today that you'd come to an agreement and, in a way, we'd at least appear on behalf of this prohibition. And it's not because I'm speculating, it's because it's been achieved in Madrid. I believe that a decision is taken in the Defence Commission, and in Congress, which says: "The Congress of Deputies urges the Spanish Government to welcome the adoption of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons". Why can't we come to this deal? And second: "to continue to work on the Stockholm initiative within the framework of the Non-Proliferation Treaty". Mr. Prieto says, "We're worried about a nuclear war, we're in doubt." Here you have a certainty, this treaty brings some certainty. I agree with you that the Non-Proliferation Treaty is not being implemented; it is not being implemented, because it is being signed, ratified, not threatened and threatened with the use of nuclear weapons. But this treaty raises the bar of demand. I do not understand why today, even if it is a declaratory one, we will not give way to this treaty. And to Mr. Aguirre, zalantzak dauzkazu edukien artean, bathe formatan geratu zara, speculatzen, and Gobernuaren arteko lehia bat badagoen. Ez da speculatu behar, Bakarrik joan behar gives the minutes of the Congress, look at the decision that has been made there and try to bring it here. Because ados nago Gorrotxategi andrearekin, nik uste dut hemen, jendeak gure gizarteak, NATori ezetz esan zion, gizarteak ulertzen du arma nuklearrei ére ezetz esan behar diegula, eta horretarako, hitzarmen bat daukagu. Eta, gutxienez, nik pentsatzen nuen, benetan, helduko zinetela adostasun batera to welcome you to the adoption of the Treaty Ban on Nuclear Weapons, which has been done in Madrid and which is not going to be done here. And for me, I honestly think they're screwing up; they're screwing up, because they approved one thing in Madrid and in this town, which is accepted much more naturally, they don't want to pass it. This motion, moreover, or this text, in Madrid, when discussed, separated you from the right of the far right, and today you will vote with you. They're doing something wrong, I mean. I do not know if they should request a recess, reach an agreement and enter to welcome, approval of the treaty. I don't know why you get there, with the right against, and here you're going to do exactly the opposite, with the right in favor. And... strike, I'm sorry, but I have to make a connection with the previous subject. Here we speak at once of ethical superiority, some things ought to be condemned, some little things to be condemned. We're talking about big things. And I do not require either sentence, or counter-position, or contempt. No, I'm telling you to protect an international contract today, but we'll fail. I can't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the answers, together, Podemos-Nozzer, the representative of the Anxiec team, the Signora Hatage, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Well, turn the answers. Mr Prieto, you have surprised me, I have to confess that you have surprised me a lot of your intervention, because I think it is quite contradictory. He has begun by stating that the nuclear threat is true. It's true, there is, it's not an exaggeration, it's an exacerbated, exaggerated fear. That's right. And he has continued to say that the prohibition of nuclear weapons is desirable; that is, we have a certain threat, it is desirable that nuclear weapons be prohibited. And he has continued in his argument by saying, moreover, that the 2017 initiative, that is, that of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, makes sense. We have a certain threat, it is desirable to ban nuclear weapons, the 2017 ban treaty makes sense, and yet I do not know with which deadly return it turns out not, that in this context it does not serve. I say: And why in this context is it not useful? Honestly, I just don't get it. If we have a threat... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that in this context does not serve?. I say: And why in this context is it not useful? Honestly, I just don't get it. If we have a nuclear threat, if it makes sense to ban them, if it is (...) to ban them, if we have a treaty that prohibits them, and that treaty makes sense, why does it not make sense to sign it right now? It's something I can't understand. And it has also been said, "The treaty alone does not serve." Of course, it's just that no treaty on its own serves no purpose. Nor does it serve as a proliferation. No law alone serves. The adoption of a law - this is first of all - no law guarantees its implementation. So, what? Don't we make laws? Do we stop making laws? Do we stop making treaties because they're not going to be done anyway? The truth is, I don't understand. Mr Barrio also referred - it is true - to the argument of Minister Dastis at the time, in 2017, against the prohibition treaty. And it is surprising, I suppose that also that of Mr Prieto's argumentary had to do with this, because in 2017 it was precisely the Socialist Party that affected the Government of Spain, which was then chaired by Mariano Rajoy, the non-ratification of Spain of this treaty. At that time, Mr Dastis told them that it was good, that it was a sin of goodism, that if the countries with armaments did not sign it, then it would be ineffective. Honestly, I don't know what's happened here ever since. Mr Aguirre has based almost all his arguments also on the fact that we came to settle with our partner in government in Spain. No, it has nothing to do with this. It is simply that we believe it is worth expressing our support for this treaty. And I'd like to say that besides, we wouldn't be pioneers, would we? Statements such as these have been approved in Zaragoza, Seville, La Coruña, Barcelona, Cádiz, Teruel, Guadalajara..., in several municipalities, in several cities. And also in the Parliament of Navarre. Navarra has approved it, with the favourable vote, by the way, by Geroa Bai. So, well, the objective of this proposal is much more... It has nothing to do with fighting or wanting to get out of the way, but it is simply the wish that this House should express its vote in favour of banning nuclear weapons; as simple as this. It surprised me, I have to say too... Well, and I think it also has a lot to do with the background of the refusal, and it also underlined Mr Arzuaga, NATO's defence, who came out almost unintentionally. First, saying that even countries that traditionally did not want to now want to, as they say, "Long live NATO", and, moreover, not realizing that I have made clear that Russia is also being a nuclear threat. In fact, I began my intervention by saying that Putin himself had said that he was going to use absolutely all the weapons in his hand to... In other words, there is no whitening of Putin's figure and no bleeding exclusively against NATO. This is because nuclear weapons are bad, we do not want them, and that is why we want to ban them. Indeed, it is not an insurance at all risk, but it would be worth the same as I told Mr Prieto. Thank you for joining the team. Well, you've made it very clear that we're against "proliferation, reproduction," but it's still better to say that nuclear weapons must be banned. Unfortunately, today is not the time to make a statement like this in this parliament. It's very strange; I assure you, very strange. Not nuclear weapons, but not even prohibition. Well, go and tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u47	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Gorrotxategi said she didn't know what had happened from 2017 until today. Well, anyway, it's too abrupt a statement; I'll try to help you understand something. From 2017 to today, what has happened is that there is a war in Europe. What's happened is there's an invasion. And what has happened is that all agreements between countries have been violated in relation to the use of nuclear weapons or threats of nuclear weapons, or in relation to nuclear weapons, in relation to invasions, etc. In other words, what has happened is that on 24 February 2022 there was an invasion, and that, since then, this invasion of Ukraine has repeatedly been threatened with the deployment of nuclear weapons if necessary. What has happened is that nuclear safety is at risk as a result of Russia's war actions, as mentioned here in Zaporiyia. What has happened is all this, no more or less. And there is a well - known philosopher who used to say: "Under my statements, please set the date, because the dates are very important. The dates contextualize things." In 2017 it was quite reasonable, even upbuilding, that one could go on a nuclear-weapon-ban path. After February 24, 2022, and of the things that are happening, I believe that that must be seen in another context. It must be seen in a context in which wishes must be combined with threats, and with security. And you might ask if we'd have more security by doing... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... with threats and security. And one might ask whether we would have more security by making statements in favour of the nuclear weapons ban as Putin continues to threaten nuclear weapons and as well as North Korea. This is the reality. This is an indisputable reality. And in the face of that, I am sure that nuclear weapons do not give security, their very existence already generates alarm and insecurity. But I have some confidence or hope that nuclear weapons are not only in the hands of those who threaten. And maybe that can produce some kind of balance so they don't use each other. I believe that the opposite would put us at risk for humanity as a whole; if they were only in the hands of those who threaten, I believe we would be at risk for all humanity. And I think that so far we have been able to maintain that balance because in this everyone plays it. I know it's a situation, if you think coldly, macabre. But it is a situation that corresponds to reality. And in defence policy, we sometimes have to opt for pragmatism, especially if defence is interpreted as an element of security. And that doesn't mean we can't all have the same desires. That is why we welcome the ban treaty. That is why we believe that the prohibition treaty is a hope. That is why we believe that a ban treaty would be good on the horizon. But at present the prohibition treaty does not actually have any practical consequences because we are in the threat and we are in the test and sometimes in the deployment of nuclear weapons. And this is the reality. And the reality is that the 1970 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has managed to reduce nuclear warheads to a sixth - which is enough to destroy the world several times - but they have achieved that, and that has now been interrupted by the situation we are in. This is what has happened since 2017 here. And that's why, in 2017, wishes could have a tour in 2022. Pragmatism, defence and security must have another.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u48	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u49	Eskerrik asko berriro, president andrea. I used to say that we all want a better, peaceful, without violence. And we all want to be on this planet like it was 50 or 60 years ago the hippys asked for peace and Love, Mr. Arzuaga. It's true, that's what we want, and you claim it. That sounds great to me. But we must confess, from the eyes of some of the world's leaders, that we have doubts and not very little. And at least, thank God he's come back to his house and now he'll have time to read the documents he's had to prepare for his next trials and steal them. But, well, Trump's gone, he's in his house, at least we've got a lot less of pelligros here. But what has also drawn my attention to in the initiative that you have proposed, Mrs Gorrotxategi, for the invasion of Ukraine the danger, the nuclear threat, is that you have not taken this opportunity to go beyond nuclear danger and criticise everything that is happening on the battlefield in Ukraine: mass graves, torture, systematic massacres, civilian equipment destruction - which is 95% of the destruction is civilian, is not military. And also that he has not used to criticize that a satrap sends the youth of his country to fight unprepared, unarmed, materialless and above all against the will of those young people, who are escaping hundreds of thousands to Georgia, Turkey, Kazakhstan and other countries in the environment that do not ask for a visa. And the massive flight is precisely the demonstration that the Russian people do not want this war and that a global danger, such as Mr Putin, has caused this tension and the constant nuclear threat that we are living right now. Eta Arzuaga jauna, I know that there has been a vote in favour of the ban treaty in the committee, but if there has been a vote in favour of the ban treaty, why must we work on the non-proliferation treaty? If they are prohibited, they are prohibited. And you will explain to me how the twelve thousand five hundred and ten nuclear warheads of this world are eliminated simply with a signature of countries that do not have nuclear weapons that can apply I do not know with what prescription the immediate disappearance of these weapons. And you say I've supported NATO. I have never mentioned NATO as our support; I have simply said that NATO alone is mentioned in the text. I believe that there is also the error of approach. That if all the nuclear threats are mentioned is fine, but to mention - and five times in its original text - five times to NATO and only to NATO because it seems to me that it is a, I don't know, pointless not, but that it is a very peculiar way of seeing the danger that is threatening at the moment. I keep saying that at the moment North Korea, Russia are the real nuclear threats. Nor does it seem very normal to me that you do not mention a people who are starving, such as that of North Korea, for you do not mention it as a criticism in this denunciation of the nuclear threat. No more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u50	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Mr. Barri, the word is yours... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u52	Thank you, President. I would like to point out here that Article 6 of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which says very clearly and it is also the Treaty that is generally referred to by governments in relation to the intended end, with the ultimate objective. Each party to the treaty undertakes to conduct negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament. And above all a comprehensive and complex disarmament treaty, complete under strict and effective international control. That is the key word: complete, general disarmament, international control, but in good faith. That doesn't exist right now, we already know where the... Don't you? We already know what the approach is, who, because of their legal and political deficiency in the Treaty of Prohibition, benefits the scumbag, benefits the non-compliance, benefits the non-compliance. Because it is clear that it benefits if an approach is taken by the international community, which is left out by the rules, benefits in that regard. And today we're talking about something else. Today we're talking about no threat. We're talking about defense. My party or my group, my parliamentary group, People-Citizens, speaks of defence when we speak of the demand, of continuing to advance through the legal instruments that the international community and that international law gives us. But for the defense, to defend us. Not to threaten. To defend us from someone attacking us. Hey, and luckily, that's the thing. And in the treaty of... And logically good faith. There are many verification problems in the Treaty of Prohibition, which have been put on the table. It is probably very easy for many countries to adopt a treaty, okay. The ban on weapons is very easy for many countries. But we're at a political, international legal defense concert. Defense. And that issue, that treaty that you bring us here to approval or management, does not guarantee it, does not guarantee it. And that's why, well, I don't know if I'm proud, but I am happy or at least happy to belong to an area, to a collective, to a club that will defend you if they attack you, that will defend you if they attack you from NATO. But you're also going to have to set some rules and features so that your defense and the possibility of defense become credible in that sense, aren't you? And that's why we're where we are and Spain is where it is. And your Government - to which you belong - is where it is, because it is the sensible position, the position that guarantees security and the position in favour of possible defence if it is necessary to be attacked by the Basques, whether they are attacking the Spanish, or if they are attacking the Europeans. In case someone attacks us. Well, we have a guarantee of defense. And that also has some legal rules. And there is the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which is the same objective as the other. The target is the same. What's going on, look... That's usually hard to... But here he speaks in good faith. Well, then, that's the thing in some states can move. I believe that Spain can do so or many states of the European Union as a whole. But not others. And in that sense, these verification problems favor the scoundrel, favor the non-compliance. It is clear that - I also have to remember what he said (?) at that meeting, because he continued to speak on the subject. I do not know whether the present Government will be in this position. But he said, after having said what the problems of the Prohibition Treaty are, he said that this nuclear disarmament must progress with concrete actions. He spoke of concrete and ambitious actions, such as strengthening the NPT in the framework of its review conferences, promoting the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, defending the continuity of negotiations to achieve new bilateral or multilateral agreements on nuclear disarmament, negotiations for a fissile material cut-off treaty. In other words, Spain was supporting all those issues. I hope that you will continue to support it, because that is in favour of the complete neutralization of nuclear weapons, as the NPT clearly states in its article 6. And that I believe it is the logical and certain path of securing also elements of our defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. EH Collector, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Barrio, all super clear and super consistent. I'd run away from that war claim you just made at super sonic speed. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and of the PSE - let me tell you again - I think they are getting confused. The situation makes you pragmatic, says Mr Prieto. And, well, since these treaties are not worth so much, they embrace the nuclear arms race, and as we are at war, nuclear escalation. And Mr. Aguirre, of the same kind. Because the PNV in the Senate, on October 2, 2017, a motion urging the Government to join the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The PNV, defended by Senator Victoriano Gallastegi Altube, says: "Not adhering to the treaty is indirectly becoming an accomplice to the use of nuclear weapons." What has happened from 2017 to 2022 to change your mind in such a radical way? What happened? What are we at war? Sure. And then we hug these guns. Amnesty International - I have mentioned it before - sometimes we pay attention to it or prefer to pay attention to NATO, and it does not ask to do so easily; that is, that countries that neither possess nor sell nuclear weapons ratify the Treaty of Prohibition. Only Austria and Ireland have done so from our environment. Which I think is worth mentioning. Not even Amnesty International asks us to do what is less easy; that is, to ratify it by those states that profit, that do business with the nuclear business, such as Spain. Amnesty International... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that it be ratified by those states that profit themselves, that do business with the nuclear business, such as Spain. Amnesty International – those who are pushing the nuclear-weapon-ban treaty – ask us to ratify it, that is, by states that have weapons, and threaten to use them. Nuclear powers must join the historic treaty that illegalizes nuclear weapons. He called for what was difficult: he called for pressure on the nuclear powers, also on Russia, and also on North Korea. Here is not to make balances, we are not making balances, we are commanding and we are trying to send a message to all those who have nuclear arsenals, not only so that they are not used, but that they are eliminated and destroyed. And you, EAJ, PSE today take a joint position with the right, the right, and it is an NATO position, because it is precisely NATO that is pushing against this ban treaty. And today you, I'm sorry to tell you, but thank you, thank you. I do not understand that a decision is reached in Madrid that is more demanding than the one that can be given here in the people of no to NATO. I do not understand that we fall short of a decision that has been taken in Madrid. The Congress of Deputies is more demanding than this Parliament with the correlation of forces that we have here today. I can't understand. In Hiroshima and Nagasaki, 140,000 people died. There is a university study that makes a projection, and says that in the early hours of a nuclear conflagration 90 million people would die almost immediately. I think we owe victims to prior victims, prior to nuclear weapons, but we owe them something, too, to our previous potential victims. And I said before, it's not to blame or condemn these weapons, but we must guarantee that this will never happen again. In 2018, Mayor of Hiroshima came to Gernica. The president was with him, a tree they planted. One year ago, 30 victims from Nagasaki came who survived nuclear bombs. Perhaps these victims could expect a little more of us today. The victims and the potential victims of a nuclear weapon don't want a speech, they want the tragedy that happened to establish guarantees will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. After the discussion, we'll vote together, like the Podemos-Nozzer, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 25; counters, 47; abstaining, 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u56	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eunciators. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 46; contraries, 25; Abstations, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u57	It's accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Glament for another proposal made by the parliamentary band, concerning a woman who had been the victim of obstetrical violence. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Houserit, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u58	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Welcome back. We believe today is especially important from our group, because we're going to give this subject space, time, and discussion. Because it's so political, the subject we're working on today. So political a man mentions in a few months one of the most important laws admitted in this legislature: obstetric violence. I've been trying to do a bit of hemeroteka in the last weeks of obstetric violence, because in months, there's been a lot of talk about how women's dissecting Committee for the Desageration, because CEDAW's recovery. This organ in the United Nations' Organization insisted on two accounts: the one about the patriarchal justice, and the other about obstetrical violence. But before he gets to this, I'd like to do a bit of hemote and a little bit of texting. Why did he go to the hemerotera? Because I wanted to watch who said something about this thing. Who made the proposal and the movement that brought us here today. And I almost found the words of women who have been victims of this violence. The ones who have tried to get around the state of life have been professionally trained in psychology and pregnancy. I have also found the words of some professionals, and have made some interesting observations which I shall attempt to bring here. But putting eucalyptic words into the searcher, I only got eight pages. I think that's very significant. This lack of visuality is a burden to people who have been victims to this violence. And even that, if it's a little bit, we'll try to change this discussion today. I've been trying to pull a hemerotheque, because I'm interested in who talked about it, who put it on the table. And almost exclusively have organized women against violence... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... He talked about it, who put it on the table. And almost exclusively have organized women against obstetric violence. And why do I say this? Because if it weren't for the news, trying to make the matter visible, of teson, we wouldn't be here today. The World Organization of health has a memoir made about middle abuses and bad deals, which says it's a shocking situation, because many women suffer in insulting, indifferent, unrespected treatment. In the meantime, he mentions humiliations, the use of medical procedures without permission, the physical treatments, the lack of need of an informed approbation, the violation of privacy... He considers it a violation of human rights, and has shown that a woman is performed in a moment where she is peculiarly vulnerable. This caused physical and psychic effects to women. And in the case of those who encourage him to accuse him, he has also shown that this violence takes place again in the courts of justice, because CEDAW's sentence declares it an improper and stereotyped judgment which has been published in the last sentence. We have several times disputed the patriarchal Justice, in this Assembly of Laws. Today, we won't touch this court business, but I didn't want to stop talking about it. On the 19th of February, 1919, the New Testament was published by the two Basque Women in the United Nations. They were cases of four women who had suffered the obstetric violence when they were born, and the lawyer Francisca Fernández received what he was talking about. Two sentences have already been received in the Spanish State, both agreeing with the women, and establishing some domestic employments for the systems of health. A couple of years later, in November 2021, New, they talked about how the obstetric violence appeared in legal texts, and they received the words of Irani Aquezar, the lawyer. He thinks that the law ought to give a confession to the obstetric violence, which would produce other effects. "Refused to receive it in a text of the law... "He said he could produce a change of culture, a kind of culture, which is indispensable. "Many women can name their reality and feel it." And the sigh added that the name should be started by the study. "You identify situations of violence in which you can study, cultivate, visible reports, and you can meet public policies to try to face these situations." According to him, when you have identified the nature of this kind of violence, how it is produced and how it is possible to work in prevention. And he said: Repack is the last step. 2022, guk pauso hours genuine eman Legebiltzarrean. Besteak beasts, gure taldeak aurkeztutako zuzenketa bat izan zen indarkeria obstetricia legean sartzea, eta gehiengo osoz sartzearen alde egin genuine taldeok. Pauso garrantzitsua, erealidad batan atortza age system batan babes aterkia eskainiko lukeelako honela. In 2022 we took an important step towards the visibility of this violence in this very Parliament, incorporating it into the macho violence in the reform of the Equality Act. And once this is done, what are we willing to do? What steps are we going to take? Here we are, with a sentence, and a law which denotes obstetric violence. And what are we willing to do? We have clearly come to this point, that the wound has been due to women who have continued their journey, and who have been obliged to be constantly opening up the wound, but they do not belong to them, or not only to do this work. It is imperative that the analysis on the system should be organized. It belongs to us, to Osamate, together with them. Our proposal had two very clear points: the former spoke of study, consciousness, form, and protocol. We were saying precisely that it was necessary to perform a work of consciousness and enlightenment on the obstetric violence, together with the professional members of the Osalist, to identify it and to oppose it. To this end, the discovery would be a work of deepning itself in consciousness and formation, and studying protocols, in conjunction with Osar. I think it's a reasonable and easy proposition. We were talking about an investigation and a way of sharing which might still be difficult to identify. I'd like to put some keys on the table for this first point. We're talking about the system. Changing the middle strategy doesn't mean putting a bathtub or not just, but understanding how the patriarchal system takes away women's ability to decide. We're even talking about a lack of resources. Laia Vidal gineologist and an obstetricist specialised in great danger, says: "That in respect of obstantial violence there is also a violent organization, and, consequently, even the workers of health are the side-feeders of the system which enables the appearance of violence. The want of labour, which is properly known to One, and is not able to offer the proper protection of women, is the want of time in the consuls, the absence of worthy space and bed, or a charge of endurance, of indirect effects of obstetrical violence." Assibly, the psychologist Fernandez says pregnancy and especially giving birth is a very vulnerable moment. We need to understand this, and if we don't understand it, we won't understand how psychologically this violence has a psychological impact. If we've got what he's been thinking about, prepared for this... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and this has psychological impact. We have all around us what he has thought of, what is prepared for it, a lot of professionals who have knowledge, and who are willing to interact with it. We've also had answers... the leading ones themselves must be heard. We have a chance to rethink things and give them the means to create a new path. It's good for you to take it and make it better for you. He talked about the second point's notice. The intention is not to point out health workers, but to point them out the same system, as we have said from −. The law of equality also received a new proposal to offer to persons who have been victims of the machista of violence. in this particular case, we clearly mean that we thought it very serious that the Medical Department and the Council should have told us about it after the verdict received by the Osar. In 2012 he denied that in the hospital of Donostania he had been affected by obstetric violence, and rather than spoke of a place of empathy, than that he would examine CEDAW's recommendations, he preferred to deny everything. I also believe that if we have an agreement of the existence of violence obstetrical, we may make our proposals, as CEDAW and we have here made to the legislature. In conclusion, Podemos has put together a definition of the several nations, which has suggested that this should be the basis of protocols. Of course we agree with this proposal, and we vote for it. If it's the one with the name, we've got the name. Let's work for it, and let's make it a changer. It's no use being a text, we need means to develop it. And to tell him to do it all the time, it's no use. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, represent the Podemos Anther Group. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u60	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. As sociologist Esther Vivas says, obstetric violence is the last frontier of gender-based violence. Why? Because it's socially accepted. Those of us who have gone through the process of pregnancy and childbirth, we know and can put words to this violence when we talk about excessive monitoring, multiple vaginal tacts, routine episiotomy, infantilization; when we talk about the use of forceps or suction cups, or comfortable positions always for the doctor or midwives, but not for what your body asks for; or not to respect the birth plan. All this... Or not putting a skinned creature with the mother, that's what we identify and we can say it's obstetric violence. And first, it must be acknowledged, that this I have mentioned is obstetrical, and exists. And today we will bring this discussion here, from some of the health sectors and from the official version of AWIL, because they deny violence to be reality, and argue that the only purpose of the trousers being the welfare of the patients is the welfare of the patients. Well, despite this official version of the Government, it does exist, there is this kind of violence, and surely any of us here can recognize situations that have lived in gynecological reviews or experienced during childbirth, pregnancy, or abortion, or postpartum. That's how a lot of women report it. Some present here today. Some, also associations like The Birth is Ours. But we don't just report it. It had previously commented on the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, CEDAW, and had also issued an opinion recognizing and considering it. We are talking about one of the most important international bodies with regard to the protection of women's rights. With this opinion in hand, knowing its content, the Department of Health, on the basis of a judgement of a local court - which is contrary to what this body, CEDAW, says - draws an information note in which they simply run the package. And let's make it clear we're not here to question the work of the judges. But, of course, we know that there is still a long way to get decisions which the judges and the judicial system generally have in view of the genus. Hence we have insisted on this legislature that a genus of preparation is indispensable to all legal agents. In any case, the human rights guarantee system is designed precisely to ensure that there is an international body that can recognize violations of rights that States have not been able to recognize and prevent. And that's what CEDAW has done. But the health department of the Basque Government seems to you that this is of no importance at all. And there is no sign of recognition that what happened might be contrary to rights, not even a doubt. We commented on this a few weeks ago at a meeting we had with professionals and associations and with some experts. We are aware that there are many of these practices that are strongly rooted in our health system, and that obstetric violence is not exercised voluntarily, deliberately and consciously. I mean, no one's talking about bad faith on the part of the professionals. This type of practice largely responds, as the Committee says throughout this opinion, to structural gender inequalities. And in the field of health, for it is not exempt from them. And it is not a chance to give a very large percentage of cases not to let women know the theft they are making, not to let them choose, to eat, and drink, or to respect the plan of giving birth. It's too often... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to refuse to choose, to eat, and drink, or to respect the plan of giving birth. For, too often, the authority and autonomy of women on their sexuality, their body, their decisions, their pregnancy, and the experience of pregnancy. Among the causes that explain the use of this type of practice, we also find those that have to do with dynamics of medical-patient power. And in the case of women, much more are exacerbated by the vulnerability we have at the time of delivery. And let's not be fooled, working conditions also influence. Lack of personnel, shifts, endless guards, urgency, stress of situations make it extremely difficult to change and eradicate obstetric violence. All this was already happening before the pronouncement of the United Nations. Now, with this touch of international attention, shall we continue as if nothing happened? Our bet, that of my parliamentary group, is very different. We will continue to promote the empowerment of women, also in the area of their sexual and reproductive health; we will continue to defend the essential need for training and awareness-raising to guide the work of professionals towards other types of practices. In fact, all this, and much more, was what we wanted from our group last week when we brought the proposed sexual and reproductive rights law that was rejected in this very House. Because we need to focus on the right of women and pregnant persons to informed consent in all gynecobsterical processes and apply humanized principles, because reproductive rights must be guaranteed and gynecobsterical violence eradicated. To do this, we need up-to-date protocols for pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum and postpartum care, involving associations and organizations in their preparation and approval. In addition, we proposed the development of a planned home delivery programme, and for the first time, we envisaged in the article a specific point in the care of gestational and perinatal mourning, and the right to specialized care and psychological treatment in these cases. When Euskal Herria Bildu registered this GNP, the groups supporting the government chose to table an amendment to the whole that reproduces the last point of the information note to which I referred earlier, throwing balloons out and encouraging our health service to follow as before. For us it is another missed opportunity, because we have to recognize that things are not doing well. And with such an amendment, we again fall into the invisibility and denial of this kind of violence. And what is my parliamentary group doing in the face of invisibility and denial? We name and recognize. That is why we tabled an addendum amendment, we fully endorsed the points of Euskal Herria Bildu's GNP, but we thought that a larger definition point should be included. In his time, in the final reform of the law for equality, we fought to introduce a detailed list of definitions, but he did not come in at last. Yet the obstetric violence is expressly mentioned as a machista violence against women. When we define this, we shall take another step, so that the words should not be carried away by the wind, and the agreement of the concepts. Obstetric violence is any abuse, abuse or psychological, physical or sexual aggression, unjustified omission or denial that occurs during the care of pregnancy, preparation, delivery, postpartum and abortion, and within the framework of the care of the sexual and reproductive health of women and pregnant persons. This was our proposal. The other two points of the non-law proposition are crucial too. On the one hand, the institutions have and must have the duty of reparation with anyone who has been declared a victim of an action by our Administration. And, in addition, the United Nations Committee also takes this into account. And that's why now we say it's time to move from words to facts, although it doesn't seem like it's going to be like that. Of course, the training and awareness of professionals play an essential role. And especially important is the mention made in the non-legislative proposal to work, together with health professionals and professionals and with the involvement of Emakunde. Izan ere, batzuek exacten havetenaren aren, eztabaida hau ez da errudunak bilatzen saiatzen, ez dago inor seinalatzeko borondaterik, ezta gure osas un sistema iraintzeko ere. What we have is an obligation to eradicate practices that are contrary to the sexual and reproductive rights of women. Thanks to all those that you push from the streets, from the birthplaces, from the foals so that here it is legislated counting on you and for you. Eta horretarako gaude hemen eta, horregatik, jarraituko dugu lanean Legebiltzar honetan Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitzatik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u62	Thank you, President. Violence against women is a violation of women's human rights; therefore, it is considered gender-based violence and is recognized in international instruments, which protect against all forms of violence in both the public and private spheres, including obstetric violence. Obstetric violence goes against dignity and integrity, with the aggravating of the particular vulnerability in the circumstances surrounding reproduction. Obstetric violence refers to the practices and behaviours performed by health professionals to women during pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum, both in the public and private spheres, which, by action or omission, can put at risk both the mother and the baby and which are violent or can be perceived as violent. This kind of violence can occur both physically, in the form of acts not... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... to be perceived as violent. This type of violence can occur both physically, in the form of acts not appropriate or not consented by the patient, and psychologically, as could be humiliations. This is why obstetric violence is recently considered to be gender discrimination and is considered to be violence against women, since it may constitute a violation of their rights from their sexual, reproductive and health perspective. Obstetric health can endanger maternal health and fetal health, and degrades professionals who exercise it or can exercise it and goes against their own ethics and dignity. It is violence that comes from the professional health sector, and it is important that there is good information in the health field in order to be aware of this type of behaviour. And it is important to be able to have tools to properly detect and manage such practices against postpartum pregnant women in order to avoid physical and psychological consequences on them. It is clear that any form of violence against women can harm women's health from different areas: physical, sexual, reproductive, mental and behavioral. We recently have the adoption of the second amendment to Law 4/2005 on Equality of Women and Men in our Autonomous Community. Act No. 1 of 3 March 2022 was adopted, where, in addition to the article on equality, the seventh chapter on violence against women is included. Article 50.3 states that violence against the partner or ex-family, intra-family, sexual violence, femicide, trafficking in women and girls, sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation, forced marriages, other harmful traditional practices, arbitrary coercion or deprivation of liberty, torture, institutional violence, harassment, gender-based political violence, digital and social violence, obstetrics and the violation of sexual and reproductive rights, as well as any other form of violence that may or may harm the dignity, integrity or freedom of women and girls. And, besides, that's got to be... it's already happened in the public and private sphere. And expanding into family areas or collecting family, work and educational, health, sports, community, media, leisure and festive spaces and the virtual environment. This article is novel and is introduced for the first time into the law adopted in March 2022. And article 61 speaks of the right to reparation. And in paragraph 1 it speaks of measures to support and provide financial assistance to victims of non-payment of compensation, but derived from the crime established by court order. In the case that has given rise to the initiative, we must not forget that it happened in 2012. A complaint was filed against the Basque Health Service in 2015 for patrimonial responsibility before the Dispute-Administrative Court. The court decision was rendered on 13 October 2015, where the appeal was dismissed on the grounds that there were no requirements for such liability. And, later, a procedure was initiated before the UN Committee, which was not reported to the Basque Department of Health, so he could not make any allegations. And the report of this United Nations Committee states that the judicial process was marked by gender stereotypes. I believe that, of course, we believe that it is not for us in this House to evaluate the judicial resolutions - of course, I fully respect them - or the report of the United Nations Committee in this case. But it is clear that in this case they did not have a positive judicial decision. That is why my parliamentary group is going to support this initiative is the amendment to the whole of which we tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group. And I believe, and I have no doubt, that we will continue to make progress in all matters relating to obstetric care in order to get better and better assistance, to gather any scientific evidence, any socio-cultural change within this area and to improve in the future. And, of course, I encourage the rest of the groups in the House to support our initiative. It is curious that in the amendment to add the Elkarrekin Group we can pick up a definition with which I do not say that I do not agree or agree. What I do recall is that in the debate when we adopted the recent amendment of the equality law we talked about that it was not appropriate to collect within the law the different definitions of violence, but it was better that they were updated at all times. And we believe that it had to be the Basque Government itself that, once that study was carried out or entering it, they defined this definition in a somewhat uniform way. I believe, therefore, that it is not appropriate to enter or accept through a non-legislative proposal that definition, but that I believe that what needs to be done is - as we talked about when we were debating the equality law - that it is the Basque Government itself that, after a study, defines. And I'm sure you'll probably catch those definitions that exist at the international level, logically, will rely on them and establish a definition that serves to establish... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... Those definitions that exist at the international level, logically, will be based on them and will establish a definition that serves to establish a unity of actions, a definition that we can use. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u63	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good morning. Good noon, everybody. The obstetric violence is a machista of violence, and violence against women is a machista. That's where we said that March 3, we agreed to this house and agreed to adapt to the law of equality. When we mentioned the obstetric violence against women. We have often expressed it, but it must be confessed, that this arrangement has produced a great progress among them, as has been said, with the utmost majority, this confession of obstetricated violence. And any kind of violence is subject to the observation of the woman (that is? ?a??????????????????????????????????????a???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Sheath of the obstetrical indarkeria? Did the Egyptian Zeri deutso ereferentia? What do we mean when we talk about obstetric violence? Is it a consequence of a bad practice? Is it a consequence of practices which in certain areas may be considered obsolete when dealing with the time of delivery? What is it? What is considered? The truth is that there is no consensual definition of obstetric violence. So, we think the first step should be that, don't we? Build among all a definition of what it is and what it refers to this type of violence. Como decía anterimente, una mala praeaxis, právas inadecuadas u obsotas de proscuses sanitaris, porque si definamos dejumante est concepto, pues tampo colegos a consenso, un consenso specto a casoso que que que que que que que se se mendina, se mendia de posi de posto la base ato nosi de mesi de noley. For this other proposition, as it is in our hands to-day, is founded on a particular case taken in the San Francisco Hospital in 1, 2012. Those who are about this case have already spoken of in advance of me, and of respect for me, I should no longer penetrate into that of ours. But you will often understand that it is inevitable, because at last the foundation of the justification of this enterprise is to be found in that particular case. The moment of birth is of special importance to both mothers and children. How did we talk about it in our repentance? The process of birth and birth must be a positive experience, and demand it from us to Ossar: Keep her close and high-quality attention. In order to discuss the case that we have in our hands, the obstetrical help, the scientific evidence, and the social change, which is still more important than that, without forgetting the sphere of security and excellence. Membership has several protocols in order to maintain this excellence, Siempre pricidad y la protección tant de la madre como de la cria. And it is that the decisions made by the professionals of Osakidetza and of any health service that is valued are always prioritizing the integrity of this case the mother and the creature. And it is that the sentence I mentioned above focuses mainly on that, in which since Osakidetza all the protocols were complied with. And that means that at certain times professional decisions that are vital to the safety, protection and integrity of health professionals must be made. Decisions that sometimes - and I include myself in the first - people who are not health professionals, we have no capacity to make. Of course we have the right to take, but we do not have the capacity to understand the consequences of our decisions in this respect. "Vo escía al principio de mi intervención que es muy importante es delimitar lo que es la violencia obstétrica, porque se testo −cho que osa colitate actuó cum edido tos losto procolos, porque prima lomba." Protocols Con lo cual, en este caso, exescartamos la mala praxis? You know what I mean? I don't know, I don't know. Otherwise, how could we complicate it? That is why I say it, and he has also mentioned it: we are not to be rated. I myself am not a woman to be rated, whether or not a woman has suffered obstetric violence. But clarro, from the entity of resistance in this case, − as a member, when all the protocols of the alive have been fulfilled from the hospital of Donostia, what shall we call you? No? For the night in front of a case of Caesar's birth. The percentage of half-breeding by Caesar is one of the indifferent or significant attentions of which he is being borne at the very moment of birth. WHO recommends that the number of deliveries per cesarean section should not exceed 15% of the total to consider that we are talking about good practice. Eta Osakidetza parameter horietan mugitzen da. I believe that if professionals make the decision to practice - as in this case - a cesarean section is to safeguard - as I said earlier - the integrity of the people who are protagonists at the time of delivery. Beraz, don't I give a shit about hours? Ez? No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, Eta's going to be noa berriro. I used to have ten lehenengo zerk eman lezakeen indarkeria obstetricia parratzera. Let us build a consensual definition and start from that basis, recognize and repair the damage caused. To finish up, Mrs. Houseland... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...and from that base, let's recognize and repair the damage caused. To finish, I thank Mrs. Housemaid and I'll be in touch with you. As we speak, well, we can't come to an agreement today, because we plunge into a concrete case, but we'd like to close it clearly before any machita of the Eucarias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Silvia Martínez Santiago, Irene Fernández Perera, María José García Sánchez, Carmen Tagle González, María Dolores Ledo García or María del Carmen Fernández Muñoz, among others, were not the victims of what you call obstetric violence, but they are part of the hundreds of women killed by ETA's terrorist violence. So listening to Bildu talk about any manifestation of violence seems absolutely obscene to us, considering that, to date, he has not condemned the more than 800 murders perpetrated by ETA. Listening in Bildu's mouth, through this initiative, expressions such as reparation and awareness is an affront to those who for decades have suffered the outbursts of terrorism. That Bildu denounces the existence of what they define as obstetric violence as a widespread form of violence is - if not for the suffering accumulated for more than four decades - a real sarcasm. To be honest, Bildu is not entitled to denounce any form of violence, taking into account her background and her lack of commitment to the eradication of violence. In any case, we will make an assessment of the terms set out in the initiative. The text indicates the existence of obstetric violence and describes it as widespread violence within the health system, and of course defines it as macho violence, when more than 60% of the professionals in this branch are women. From Vox, the first thing we want to express is our support for the thousands of professionals, both men and women, of gynecology, who carry out a medical work of remarkable importance. And we will not join in trying to stigmatize a particular medical group in a general way. They point directly to a group of professionals, assigning them malicious practices. That way, without blushing. From Vox we make a very clear distinction between guilt and dolo, in line with what our legal system also establishes: guilt refers to possible negligent actions that may be due to involuntary errors in the performance of professional work; on the other hand, the dolo refers to ways of proceeding and acting carried out with the premeditated intention of causing harm, in this case, to patients. In line with the above, the use of the term macho violence entails two apriorisms: the first is that they attribute generalized violent practices to the group working in the field of gynaecology, which means the existence of wilful, bad faith or intentionality of deliberately causing harm; and the second, that such practices commit them exclusively - so they say - men, in a apriorism full of prejudices and absolutely sectarian stereotypes. In fact, on their initiative, they talk about professionals, nowhere about professionals, as is usually the case with you, with this juggling game you always use with gender articles. You are directly charged with the professional ethics and codes of ethics of this group, which is governed, like any other specialty, by the principles of scientific rigour and medical ethics. In the Basque Country, and according to data from the patient's defense association, 410 complaints of alleged medical negligence were recorded during the year 2021. The specialty of gynaecology and obstetrics was fourth in terms of complaints received, behind general surgery, emergencies and traumatology. Did you know that? Fortunately, Spain, in this rule of law where we enjoy guarantees and a system of guarantees, we have covered this. At the national level, we have the law regulating the autonomy of the patient, his rights, his obligations, and where the right to care information, the right to privacy or the right to informed consent, its limits and conditions are perfectly reflected. At the autonomous level, we also have the decree on patient safety, which includes the requirement that each centre have a plan, a committee and a patient safety reference that must ensure their well-being. A rule of law in which anyone considers that his or her rights as a patient have been violated can – and must – appeal to the courts, which, despite being so obvious, must state that they are responsible for confirming or not the possible violations reported. But since Vox we will not be left with a simple assessment of the proposal presented, as this would be a very superficial analysis. We are very clear that behind these kinds of proposals there are far-reaching political approaches and deeper ones. The alleged obstetric violence is simply another tool in this process of social transformation that they want to impose on us. The left as a whole has flagged as a fundamental strategic standard for this second part, this second decade of the 21st century, ultrafeminism and hembrism in its broadest sense. And since Vox we are not going to support, of course not, this initiative, because we consider it sectarian and, moreover, it is sharpening the work that professionals do with so much commitment, dedication and affection towards all people, let us be women or let us be men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u67	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief of Investigation... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, Congressman, good evening. Well, good morning, I'm sorry. Well, we're on the final point, the point that EH Collector introduced, and what we're gonna do, we're gonna vote for the Jalt Party and the positive corrections that the Social Party has submitted. If I would like, before reading the amendment we are going to support, we are going to support or argue rather, or make a reference to the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the groups supporting the Government, which we are going to support, which obviously seems to us to be the exact text. We do not propose any amendments to EH Bildu's original initiative, understanding that surely, too, a vote of confidence - in this case yes - to the groups supporting the Government, do we? And it seems to us right that we should continue to give close and quality attention in the field of Osakidetza and obstetric care, based, how not, on scientific evidence, having instead the sociocultural changes, and seeking - as it could not otherwise be - by the great professionals that we have in Osakidetza, the Basque public health system, a correct action in the field of childbirth, birth, preparation, postpartum and this kind of situation. We do not consider at all that this violence can be equated with gender-based violence, which also has its own entity, and it has also been addressed by the various institutional areas, also in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And indeed, speaking of obstetric violence, as mentioned in the initiative itself - not in the text presented by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party - there is also the risk of criminalizing and stigmatizing professionals who, as I say, put the best of themselves in all kinds of actions in the day-to-day life of Osakidetza. Of course, it is not a macho violence for us, and, of course, it is not conduct that is widespread in our health system. They are, of course, undesirable behaviors. In some there will be liability or not. In any event, the relevant authorities will have to clarify whether or not there is any kind of responsibility and of whatever kind. That is why we advocate that quality health care should continue to be provided throughout Osakidetza, also in this specific area. Attention according to scientific evidence, and attention that implies, and especially when we talk about this specific area, the postpartum, prepartum and care during the entire gestation process, quality care and that safeguards at any time also the risk of the woman and of the future creature. Well, then, in that sense, as I said, we will support the whole amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Socialist Party groups. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseland, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u71	Thank you. I think I must begin by saying that we agree: Mrs. piñazar used to say that we share accounts. There's an identification problem, and that's what you have to deal with. And those which come from the several international organs, which are to be taken as the foundation of a definition, we agree that around it there must be a work of construction. And therefore our point was only what it required. I think that we must take steps forward, and that we have mentioned, all the speeches which deserve to be mentioned. And, no doubt, we agree with one of those things which you mention in your proposal: let it be forgotten as positive. I'm afraid it's a different way to forget that for some people, isn't it? And yes, let's go on that road and work together. I, about this proposal, have been asked by more than one party during the week: "It's an agreement, isn't it? "I don't know. That's what I've been told from the beginning. I think they understood, and even when we saw him, that first point had enough chance of meeting a point on the basis. It wasn't like that. Another thing that has happened to me has happened to me during these weeks, especially this week, that several of them have come to tell me of their experiences, when they have read this proposition: more positive, less negative... But what does that make me think? We still have need and mind to be heard, and space to speak. Well, let's go build it that way. Let's go to the creation of listening spaces, let's go to the creation of space for interaction. We will appeal to your proposal. We're going to be rich, so that we can understand, por supuest, that we're agreed to work in the direction of a close attention and a quality lock. But let it be and let it be understood that we will continue to work, and we wish to understand it as a sign of the mind of an association. As I said, nothing ends here today. I think we're expanding a path... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... We want you to understand it as a gesture of the mind. As I said, nothing ends here today. I think there's a way out of this legislature. I'm not going to tell you that we were, not at all. Besides, I think I've made it quite clear, that so many have brought us here, but now that we've got the subject, let's not let it pass this day. And I would like to place myself on the table on one side, and the necessity of the detailed permission, which is particularly important at this point, of doing the right thing with the informed consent, don't I? Because one of the keys might be there. Above our bodies, we decide to be a fool, to take it to other places, and also to health. And today I... I don't know. Angry or arm... instead of taking my leave of him, my bent arm, or my head bowed, I would fain draw this proposition with that sensation, that he will go on with other ways, other stations, and other possibilities. I believe that we have a direction, that the law of equality, and that we have a particular proposition, which we tried to place at the first point, which he spoke of, of the common diagnosis, of the necessity of identification. Today we take a step. Let it not be the end, because it is necessary for us to decide how to get hold of what we have named. And because I hope we can get through another point. At least we won't give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u73	Well, first of all, tell Mrs. Sánchez that it is true that during the Equality Act we talk about definitions, about drawing definitions from the law. We said to take them to the Equality Plan, we talked about consensusing those definitions. You've seen them, I haven't. Secondly, I wanted to comment on Maitane Ipinazar, Mrs Ipinazar, who said that the first thing was to define jointly. And I also agree that it is true, we have put on the table a definition. It is an internationally agreed definition, but we can work on it. That, in fact, I believe that if one thing is clear to us today, it is that we lose a chance today to have taken a step. We all know that negotiations, when we negotiate a GNP, the texts, the points, we can adjust, and say: well, we are not going to include this, but we are opening the way. That is why I do believe that today is a missed opportunity to open that path, to talk again about this issue, to discuss this concept again - the concept, and practice as well. And the point is also that Mrs Ipinazar commented, who defines, who defines this concept. I believe that until now it has practically been the judgments of the courts, and in this case the local court is making a definition. Is it a court that has to make a definition of obstetric violence? I don't think so. I think we are all here and there are many experts, there are many associations, there are many collectives and especially health professionals. And in this sense I am addressing Mrs Garrido, because she was talking about the point, good of the professionals. Of course this is not a point of the professionals. Today we were talking above all about institutional responsibility, responsibility for recognition, and reparation. And you said it wasn't macho violence. It is thus enshrined in the Equality Act, in which we have all worked, and this is indeed agreed. I believe it is a mistake to fall into denial of these practices. Not only because this way we are going to perpetuate them, but because we are causing double victimization, which we have talked about several times about this subject here. And it's a double victimization of women and people who suffer it. We could have delved into today's and other issues, such as those we brought in our proposed law on Sexual and Reproductive Rights, but this has remained on stand by. I believe that it is up to us to demand that our institutions comply with the recommendations of the CEDAW Committee. I think that's up to us, to us. Moreover, I believe that we must continue on this path of feminist rights which we have already put on the table during this parliamentary term. And I believe that besides that we are working them in a constructive way all the groups. The test was the work we did with the Equality Act, which took us a year, but I think it's also an open door and a different way of working. And my parliamentary group is prepared to do that too. I don't think I can finish today without also mentioning the work... the work, bureaucratic obstacles and all, of the women who have been there for ten years so that there is that resolution of the United Nations Committee. They must also be recognized for their work and tenacity. And all I have left is, I think we're still... encourage and encourage everyone to continue to reflect on these issues. And also remember that 14 and 15 of this month is the Congress of Obstetric Violence, Perinatal Duel and Mental Health in Bilbao, 14 and 15. And I think it's a good opportunity to get closer and get to know professionals and experts how they live and feel about these issues. And let us not always be from here, from Parliament, where we believe we have the most important word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz Ález. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez. Then the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u75	Yeah, from the seat. Mrs. González... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u76	Yeah, from the seat. Mrs. González, I think we've taken clear steps where... I have read in my speech – although I don't usually read – a definition of an article in the rostrum so broad, but I wanted to do so precisely to demonstrate the great progress that we were gathering within that article, and in addition, there was a broad consensus in the work that we did during the presentation before passing the Equality Act. And I believe that all political groups are in favour of continuing to work for the elimination and eradication of any kind of violence against women, and within it is obstetric violence. And, Mrs González, you also mentioned in your first speech that we did not want to discuss in the previous plenary session on the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act. No, we told you in that plenary, it's not that we don't want to debate, it's that you were repeating that debate here, when that debate is in the Congress of Deputies right now. You have literally reproduced the debate that is there and wanted to bring it here to have your moment of glory, and that was completely absurd. We do not refuse to discuss these matters, they were very different things. And, of course, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I am convinced that we will continue to work all, and make positive progress to eliminate any kind of violence against women. And on that path I think we're all going to find each other, and we're going to move in that direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u77	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u78	Eskerrik asko, berriro era, legebiltzarburu andrea. Gauza pare bat exacteko. Since Osakidetza's press release has been mentioned in response to the UN's recognition of the particular case, I would like to say that I do not share – with all due respect – what is mentioned in the justification for GNP, and what has been mentioned here too. Osakidetza has never denied the UN's recognition. The only thing that says in that press release – and I think it is fair to pass it on too – is that the UN – as Mrs Sánchez mentioned – has at no time counted on Osakidetza for possible allegations, request for data, information, protocols that have been carried out, at no time has the UN counted on Osakidetza to clarify this recognition, has not denied it. I do not, of course, disagree, but I do think it is fair to say that Osakidetza learned from the media about this UN recognition, that it was not taken into account, and that at least they could have contacted them so that they could also make their possible contributions. I, Mrs González, will forgive me, but in your first speech you said something that, with all due respect, I cannot consent to, because you said to me that the groups that we support, that we support the Government, we do not recognize obstetric violence, and that is not the case, that is not the case, because we are women too, and because we are partners and we also decide, and that is not the case, and I will forgive myself, but I will not be able to consent to that. I would also like to stress that... because it happened to me today, coming to Parliament, I heard on the radio that they had mixed two issues that are being dealt with in this Parliament today. On the one hand, this PNL on obstetric violence, and on the other hand, another non-joint law proposal that has been signed with..., which we have signed several groups on perinatal mourning. I believe, and I think it is very important, that we should not mix, because they are, in this case at least, different issues. And when you made the last recommendation, I think you've somehow mixed the two issues, and I think it's important to differentiate them. Finally, Mrs. Houseland, let's create space for interaction and listening. I completely agree. I think that today's the way for this. In the first chapter of the dowry, that is to say, when I spoke to you in the course of my conversation, this initiative is born in a particular case, and I am content to go beyond us in the same way as I was. That's why the way to dinot opens today. For me it is very important that we speak of this legislature and open the way for it. So, as today the road opens, no doubt from now on we'll be on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mrs Martínez, Mista must not speak. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u80	Yes, thank you, Madam President. For allusions, Mrs Gonzalez has been told several times about her statements and demonstrations. With regard to the reform of the law for equality, you know that in some approaches we have coincided and in others we have not, and in relation to obstetric violence, specifically, we have not had an absolutely coincident approach from the group I represent, and you in particular. For us, therefore, it is not violence at all comparable to gender-based violence. And yes, indeed, we understand that it runs the risk, as the initiative is proposed, and after also seeing their exhibitions and listening to them carefully, because of everything we also learn, that clearly we run the risk of criminalizing the professionals of Osakidetza and stigmatizing them, and I believe that we must always give a vote of confidence to these kinds of situations. They're complicated, of course you can give complications with endings... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...always a vote of confidence. These types of situations are complicated, since complications can occur with undesirable endings. But if there is any responsibility, it will have to be determined by the appropriate bodies and in the appropriate area. And I believe that speaking in the terms in which it has been done today in this rostrum can send a wrong or, rather, confusing message in relation to the work of our professionals in Osakidetza in this particular field. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u81	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. When we're done arguing, we're going to vote first, and we're going to put Podemos-Nozzer to the Anthering Team together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; the 70s, 23; the opponents, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u82	The add correction was not accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of the EHG as a team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; 70; supporters 22; contraries, 48; Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u83	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucaian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; the 70s, the 47s; the contrary, 0; abstainments 23; white ones; 0,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u84	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Euscal Popularo-Ciudadans, as a parlamentary group, as to the opening of the project by Eukoten for Getaria. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madame Larre, the representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I'm gonna put a little bit of a background on them. So I did today in the justification of my non-law proposition. But in order for you to understand what we are talking about, I have to go back to 2009, when Transport Councilwoman Nuria López de Guereñu and the mayor of Zarautz, Jon Urien, signed an agreement that allowed the topo roads to be buried in the village of Zarautz. What happened? They let the project die in a drawer. And now, after citizen pressure, you know that in 2021 this group asked the Council about where that project was going to be and what was going to be done, we were told that it was too expensive to bury the roads as they passed through Zarautz. Well, it turns out that the creation of a platform in defense of the underground of these roads, the citizen pressure that, by the way, are right now asking, without response, for an interview with the management of ETS... Xabier Txurruka, the mayor of the PNV of Zarautz, tells us that it is already possible to bury, once saved the obstacles with which they met years ago, obstacles that, according to the PNV, existed at the time of starting this project, that we all know that for this it was impossible to act in this sense. Now problem solved. What things! But it's never too late if the bliss is good. And we make an approach: since this issue has been unravelled, we will have a much more ambitious vision and take advantage of this underground project to solve another problem that has the neighboring population of Getaria and give the villa a train station. But this is not a whim, Getaria is very damaged in the times of temporary, because its main way of access to the National 634 is cut to the road traffic, because we already know that the sea is angry and it is impossible to use this road, leaving as the only way of communication to the road traffic the road of the port of Meaga, road that prevents the passage of long-distance buses, having to solve it by sending Lurraldebus microbuses so that they can cross with the vehicles of transport of goods through the port. The local industry and commerce, all of them, are forced to use the Meaga high before the courts of the National 634. And to end up being efficient, we proposed in our non-legislative proposal, we should take advantage of this project to study the possibility of locating a station in the industrial zone of Oikia, to provide transportation service to people and goods of that new and growing industrial pole. In other words, we cannot stop at improving the quality of internal transport within Gipuzkoa itself, because it is the great problem we have in Gipuzkoa, that there is no interconnection that facilitates the use of public transport between neighbouring cities, because we have not developed such infrastructures as should have the Gipuzcoans. So, how are they going to discard the use of the private vehicle when they do not have an efficient public service, such as the railway, which pollutes much less than any other public transport that is not electric. Therefore, we consider our initiative as the beginning of a future projection of the improvement in communications within Gipuzkoa, to facilitate the connection between different localities and that, within the policies of promoting public transport, it is easier and simpler to use such transport than the particular vehicle. It's about making things easier. Today, the time factor is a very precious good, and no one wants to use a means of transport that makes us lose said good. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government are ambitious and equip citizens with real solutions to their difficulties of connection that currently exist in the territory of Gipuzkoa. I'm not going to extend much longer, because I think you know perfectly well the... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... real to their difficulties of connection that currently exist in the territory of Gipuzkoa. I am not going to extend much further because I think you know perfectly well the location we are talking about and the needs of the neighbouring population of Getaria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing to the leadership teams, representing the EH Collector, Mr Fernandez de Betoulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u87	Good noon, everyone. When we saw PP's original initiative, we were a little surprised, right? Because he asked to open the Zaraout burial project to Getari. In the first place, it must be said that there is no project in itself. There was an informal study in his time, made in 2011, and it was updated in 2014. But after that there's no time to develop that project, because the informal study didn't prove it. Then we think these technical shades are important to talk about these things with a seriousness. The title of the equation itself is wrong, isn't it? The Eukoten Getarien project doesn't exist. We think we should talk a little more seriously. It seems strange to us that there is no mention of the explanation of the initiative to take a ja project to Getaria, but it is not of the Eukot's. There's a project in 2010 that's the City Hall of Getaria. If there's a project that he used to run through two tunnels, there's Meaga and... ) Around here. It was a tunnel about two kilometres. Then there was a station at the back of the tennis Museum, and then there was another tunnel to go back to the Eucotten or ETS. So the tunnels of four kilometres were planned, and the cost was not small: It was 100 million euros in 2010. At least that's what the project liked. And, in our opinion, it would be what PP suggested today, he has not explained, but we imagine that one of these two tunnels would have to be built, and then we should take him away to the surface of a tunnel, and then bury it to the Zitz. So we'd be talking about two kilometres plus four and two more. We'd be talking about a tunnel of about eight kilometres, the longest tunnel that Eukoten would have in the whole EAE, wouldn't we? And we believe that today, in an examination of costs and benefits, at the same time as Getari, where there are 2,800 inhabitants, we think it is a little too much to make a project at this moment. And, of course, the Goricans deserve to be a worthy public transport, like the rest of the people, but does not mean that it must be by train, does it not? We think there's a countryman who's giving Getari a bus service today. He may have his punctual problems, as they have been shown, but perhaps it would have to be his goal to improve them. And we don't think it's very justified here. It's also proposed to get the trucks to the Oician industrials. And we feel that, too, technically, is not very good at thinking about it. Because there was an apeadero in the chicken, but it was up there. There was a double in it, and it's at the height of about 47 feet. And, klaro, the Oceanian industrial forces are at the height of seven and nine meters. They should go down 40 yards. It'll be possible, but we think it's not very well to think and bring something else. On the other hand, we propose a full correction regarding this two initiative that the informal study of the Zaraut burial must be restored. We think it's right to bury the prison train. Usually there are two principal reasons for justifying burial: one, to make noise near the housing, and the other to make trains suffice for the strangulation. And we believe that these two conditions of the rules are given. Besides, it's been given before eight years when the initial examination was made, but they exist now with a greater reason. Because it doesn't have to be forgotten that the two manufacturing units in the center are changing, the New York is already turning into a housing site, it's going south. Even in Irries there was an technological park, but it doesn't work anymore. So we believe that the urabanistic conditions have changed, and that more housing has been placed near the train, and that today it is more justified than eight years ago. What we ask, therefore, is at our first point, that this informal study may be updated with the conditions of our present day, and may be well examined in the tomb of Zaraut. We know he's making an investment ETS right now. He's making a new station. There'll be a passage under the train. We don't feel bad about that passage, but we think it's compatible with further examination of the burial. We believe that these projects require years to be carried forward, and therefore we believe that both of them are compatible. With regard to the trains, what we have proposed has been in the correction of a point in the whole of us, that what demands a point should be examined not only of the Oxia, but of the whole region, of the coast, of the manufactures, and of the chances of transporting the merchandise. Because we think it's right and we need to get the goods out of the trucks and take them to the trains. So we think that we should examine it together with the study of Zaraut's burial, or in another study. And the third point we require is centered also in another project which seems to us to be a strategic in this region, and is the barn of Agina. We believe the Aginaga barn should be done as soon as possible. It is true that the project of construction has been made public in the course of the last few days. So they're taking steps. But, klaro, the construction project also took place in 2009, and we're still waiting for the construction... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... and so they are taking steps. But clarro, the construction project also took place in 2009, and we're still waiting for the beginning of these works. We believe that it is a strategic play that it will take the train three or four minutes, such as Donostia and Zumia, but especially that the rates may be broken, or more trains may be put together, and consequently the rates of 15 minutes may increase. Today, if I'm not mistaken, there's half an hour on the most points, and they'll be able to come down in 15 minutes. So we think it's the service of the seaside train to improve the Aginaga, and in that sense we're asking the Congressman to ask you to give me that push and ask him to do the work as soon as possible. And finally, what we're asking is that the leader of the MU is to come to the Transport Committee to tell you about the three demands we've made here. We think the coast trains need investments, they just need improvements, they just need funny ideas. And we think we should be serious, especially because we're in a very difficult financial moment. And, in truth, we believe that there are other projects of higher priority than the project required here, and that is what we have put into our full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u89	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. And now, as Fernandez de Betouño said, in the same way. At first it is true that we were present in the presence of an initiative on Getari, at least in the title, and at least in certain points of action. But I think, in the presence of the only rectification that has been introduced, that the discussion has been passed on the occasion of the burial-point. We didn't agree with the original initiative. After all, it has already been explained that the solution would have been complicated, and probably the improvement of the public transportation for Getaria would have to be made by other undertakings than by this suggestion which had been presented by the Poptular Party. And, on the rules, even though it's all said, it's a project that's been going on for a long time, and I think it's time for you to watch it on the west side of the year we live, and the next year when you see the election, we must all act with responsibilities. The rules have been given, it was made by shopping of lands, this informive investigation which has been discussed, but at the present moment we will defend the correction of the E−, which is what is needed for ETSk to make a new investigation or investigation, considering all that has been done before, of course. And seriously, with the town hall, with the platform that came up, and to see the best alternative from a country point of view, is to regulate it. With seriousness and responsibility we say, because we must do a new informative study, taking into account all that has been done so far, to find the best solution for Zarautz, and also from a territorial point of view. We're never gonna be... We will always be, better said, putting it in positive, in favor of improving all the lines of Euskotren and public transport, and, in this case, also, logically, the day-to-day of the zarautzarras that live with that trench. As in so many places in Euskadi, steps have been taken to make progress in improving the quality of life of the citizens of Zarautz. And we think it has to be the way. That is why we are going to support the amendment that has been tabled to the original initiative, because we think that carrying out that information study, together with the steps that have been taken in the people, brings together the necessary seriousness that must be given to this subject in order to see technically what is viable and what is not viable, also budgetaryly. And that we have to take into account, along with the logical claims that we support from the citizens of Zarautz. So, in short, we are going to favour or vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Fernandez de Betoño, because we think that this is the way we have to go among all of us so that, with seriousness and responsibility, we can tackle something that is not going to be easy, because it has – and I believe that in all the infrastructure debates we do – to go through this informative study, through the constructive project and through the solution that can be achieved between the City Council and ETS in order to be able to bury these roads and to improve Euskotren's service in Gipuzkoa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u90	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u91	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists express our position contrary to the proposal made by the People's Party-Citizens to extend the Zarautz underground project to cross the Euskotren roads to Getaria and to establish a station there, as well as to study the possibility of providing a station for loading and unloading goods in Oikia. And we will also vote against the amendment tabled and explained by Euskal Herria Bildu. Look, the People's-Citizens Party's proposal regarding Getaria is part of the interaction with Zarautz's underground. As far as this humble parliamentarian knows, the last thing that has been published in the media regarding the burial of the Euskotren line in Zarautz are the demonstrations carried out by the mayor of this municipality on 24 June regarding the... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... communication regarding the underground of the Euskotren line in Zarautz are the demonstrations carried out by the mayor of this municipality on June 24 regarding the current feasibility of the study of the route of the underground, which in 2015 was presented as unviable, and that the situation seems to take a turn for the purchase of soils in the Irita area. In these public demonstrations it is proposed by the mayor that the economic cost of the action is insurmountable for the municipal coffers, demarcating from any municipal financing of the project. The Basque Government and ETS have received nothing documented about this new approach, and neither is there any political agreement between the Basque Government or the Zarautz City Council, nor is there any agreement on economic participation in this project by the City Council. And at this point in the debate, I think it is appropriate to highlight a number of aspects that have to do with the agreements between the Basque Government and the Zarautz City Council, which undoubtedly give us a perspective on this important and fundamental issue. Look, there are currently three agreements signed between the City Council and ETS: the drafting of the informative study of the underground in 2009, the drafting of the new station project in 2018, and the financing of the works of the new station in 2020. In all the agreements, the Zarautz City Council has co-financed the agreements in a close percentage between 25 and 33.33 %, which means co-responsibility in the financing of the works. In the last three legislatures, the Basque Government has continued to invest in improving the railway network as it passes through Zarautz. Investments that together with the current works of the new station and the reform of the San Pelayo foothills and the permeabilization by the lower step, have managed that there are no more steps at the level and that no investment is necessary in order to have a frequency of 15 minutes on the Zarautz-Donostia line. Taking into account the actions of the Basque Government and after all these investments, when considering the underground of the line, the exclusive nature of this intervention is evidenced as a work of urban integration, since it is not done; it is not necessary to eliminate any step at the level, because they have already been eliminated; no new stations are created, because they are already being implemented; and it is not won by travellers with this intervention. And so, in the case that concerns us, as happened in Bilbao, in Vitoria Gasteiz, in Eibar, in Irun, in Errenteria, without discriminating any area be it historical territory or municipality, the criterion of the Basque Government regarding the participation in the financing of the development of the projects is 50% together with the urban gains that the liberated lands could contribute. So on the basis that the underground of the Euskotren line in its passage through Zarautz does not yet have the necessary institutional political endorsement today, and that the municipal economic participation of a work that could cost around or more than 200 million euros to date is neither clarified nor agreed, as we conclude, Mrs Larrea, that the interaction proposed by her proposal to extend the line to Getaria with the Zarautz underground cannot have our favorable vote, because the premise on which it is based is neither agreed nor a reality, nor is unattached. And with regard to the other matters raised by your proposal, I must point out that the current railway line operated by Euskotren, which runs parallel to the A8 motorway, from the Meagas tunnel and which separates from it when it reaches the city centre of Zarautz, has a straight line distance to the city centre of Getaria of 2,600 metres. You therefore propose that, taking advantage of the Zarautz underground project, a new two-kilometre branch, 600 linear metres, 100 % in tunnel and a new station in Getaria will be carried out. And it should be remembered that the population census of Getaria in 2008 - as some previous speaker has already told you - is less than 3,000 inhabitants, namely 2,818 people surveyed. The objective criteria that are taken into account for the installation of a new station or toll station on a line that already existed are that the number of users of that station should be at least 200,000 passengers per year. And so, we have to reject your proposal because it does not have the necessary economic and social profitability, and even less sense with the investment that would entail access, its maintenance and its operation at the bottom of the bag, since the trains that would vote at that new station by not continuing the railway network. With regard to the proposal for a stopover in Oikina, it should be borne in mind - as has already been said - that the route of the current line operated by Euskotren is 42 metres high. And the industrial area that you have previously occupied by SEI and a Gamesa-Siemens factory is between nine and ten metres of altitude. Therefore, the difficulties of orography, the null availability of large flat surfaces are basic aspects for railway logistics, although it is a small area and the great impact of the infrastructures of access to it and some others, such as the type of industries installed in the vicinity, which by their own activity, demand a type of transport whose characteristics do not coincide with those offered by a railway service is what makes this one, its proposal is clearly unviable. Rail transport is very competitive in the field of raw materials, solid grain, automobiles, etc., but it cannot compete with other forms of retail transport for this type of industry in that area you are talking about. For these reasons, we are not going to support the proposal of the People's Party-Citizens by the Basque Socialists. And with regard to the amendment to the whole of Euskal Herria Bildu that you have made to this initiative, you have four points. We shall also vote against it. Look, an up-to-date informational study can hardly be urgently carried out when there is no institutional agreement on the subject of burial, nor is there agreement on funding. And when unknown by the Basque Government and ETS, the planning and approach of the Irita area. From what I said earlier, I have already stated our position on the issues that you raise with regard to point three, concerning the urgent construction of the Aguinaga Short - as you will already know and have stated - on 7 October the resolution of the Director of Infrastructure and Transport dated 14 September was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. The project for the construction of the Aguinaga tunnel and its environmental impact study was submitted to public information. The section that is subject to public information through this resolution is part of the section Zarautz-Usurbil belonging to the line Bilbao San Sebastián, whose objective by the Basque Government is to seek a zone of unfolding that allows to improve the frequencies of the service up to Zarautz, to reduce the travel times, the costs of maintenance and the accidentality of the section between Usurbil and Zarautz. And ultimately, boost sustainable rail transport. This public information procedure... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...and the accidentality of the stretch between Usurbil and Zarautz. And ultimately, boost sustainable rail transport. This 30-day public information process will allow corporations, associations and individuals to make any claims they consider appropriate in relation to the content, the circumstances justifying the declaration of general interest, the overall design of the layout and the assessment of the environmental impact. That is why our position is contrary to both the amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu and the proposal of the People's Party-Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. - That's what I'm talking about. - That's Mrs. Lete, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, good afternoon or good afternoon. I don't know. Today, as described by PP-Ciudadans, we must discuss, establish, and vote. And since there are few things left to tell the truth, yet I think it's worth while to prolong our opinion or our point of view. The eubertists examined the proposal, and saw no way of explaining it, because we saw the action of the proposition very far off. And besides, this has had its influence and importance, well, it wasn't right in justification of the proposition, ma'am. It wasn't right, and it didn't reflect the current situation of investments. I can't understand why you've introduced her like that. But this is an obstacle. Well, we've seen it as an obstacle. If the justification, or otherwise, if the basis of your proposal does not conform to reality, as is the case, the derivatives, the consequences, the conclusions that can be drawn from them and the proposals, I believe they are contaminated. We believe that they do not have enough, because even the inspiring principle of all this is not solid. In any case, even if we wanted to work on a text in agreement with you, we could not share the justification, and we could not share the basis of the proposal. I'll explain why. I think he's shown up a bit, but we say the base of the proposition was wrong, and it wasn't right at the moment, they're making constructions at the railway stations. We know, and that's how we heard St. Pelaio and they're making constructions at the main station, making $12 million investments. The council participates in this, and seeks to increase access to this process, to strengthen the connection and functionality within the city. All this, the government explained to us-I don't know, in December or in this chamber. The grave of Santa Clara... the passage under the earth is also in the works. He's got a three million investment with a design to guarantee accessability and an increase in functionality. The Government also explained this to us in this chamber. We also heard in this chamber, in this chamber, that the burial had a high cost. I think that's what we heard, that it had a high cost and that in order of proportionality could not be compared with the rehabilitation of the building you proposed, of the station building. That's what was explained in this camera. And from here to the approach you make in your proposal, in which you say that there has been a change of heart, that a draft has been taken out of the drawer, and that it has been announced again, because I think there is a difference. This is not true to reality. And the Basque Government has not launched the underground project again, nor the information study. In the explanation of the works (...) by making us listen in this Chamber it was clarified what the works were, and it was evident that the actions of the Government in railway matters are sound, respond to a prioritization, respond to a response to needs, and, above all, meet the needs of users, of citizens - both goods and travellers. To say this, and to explain why we have not introduced correction, I must say that we have sunk into the subject and the demands. We tried to understand, to find points for exchange. We did our best, but we didn't meet that point. First of all, it was proposed to take the railroad to the Getari. I don't think I buried it, we didn't understand it very well, but it doesn't matter-oh sera, making a new railway to Getari, and making a new station, it's nowhere up. Not received in schedule documents, not received in DOTs, PTP Ferrovary, not stored in PTP Urola Coast. Those are the foundations. And in order to establish these foundations, this government is now the President... This government has worked under President Urkullus for years. And we understand that the Eucabertarians are the principles of development of so many sub-structions, and that they must be fixed in it by the investment of the government, because it fixes its priorities. And there was reflection and knowledge in it. And there's no proposal to the Getari station anywhere. We believe that we have to reflect on how to carry a planning. We have to consider the wants. New conditions may, of course, be found in the process. But it's not a case, it's not a case. And we can see that Getaria station and the railway branch is very far from reality. Just in case, town... Well, we've discussed it with so many operators, and they saw the necessity in our way. It's a small town, we hear, it's a small town. Of course, he has few customers. Of course he has visitors. But we think that answering another way is possible to that part of motion. This is not tolerable, either economically or from human point of view, and it would have a lot of influence in the country. At this moment we all know the Getaria, a nice little town, a small country that doesn't have a plain, and it's full of vineyards... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... moment Honetan Getaria denok ezagutzen dugu, herri Polit bat, Txiki bat, lautada ez daukana, eta mahastiz beteta dagoena. Esan beharra dago, the agroforestry PTS says it is an area of high agrological interest, for something will be. Then we must work hard on it. All these reasons are powerful not to positively value the extension of the tracks to Getaria and the construction of the station you pose. But above all, we are convinced that in order to ensure the mobility of the municipality of Getaria with a deep-seated railway extension, it is not only necessary to be effective, probably, this route was effective and would respond to the mobility that the geriatrics need, we also need to be efficient, and that is obviously impossible with a solution of high environmental and economic cost. The revision of the TSOs referred to the mobility of our territory, and invited us to promote sustainable mobility and logistics, paying particular attention to pedestrian and cycling mobility, to multimodal public transport, and to the optimisation of the combination of different modes of transport. I think we find, in this short paragraph, some of the clabes and several other strategic furrows to develop our motion. We're not forgetting that we're in Euscadin for 250 villages, lots of small ones, and everyone will need to have a patient mobile. They don't all have the railroad right now, and they won't have it because it's impossible. Multimodity is possible, coordination is possible. And this is the only way to make cohesion in our territory. Finally, I want to insist that the construction of the railway line is made clean. We clearly see what are the priorities of the investments: Travellers and goods faithful, shorten the travel times, create more fires for the chance of more journeys, double railways, get access to stations and quays, get some comfort. And, of course, a tariff system which travellers appreciate... work for it. It must be admitted, Madame Larrea, that ambition is sometimes necessary in management and planning. So dreams come true. But taking the train to Getari is not ambitious, it's going away... .). Hala era, trembid sarean anbizioaz jokatuz, lehen aipaturiko azpiegituretan lehentasunak zaindu behar dira. Nik you had Gobernuak Egyptian horrella duela, lehentasun horiek garbi dauzkala. And we really believe that an ambitious course on the part of the government in the railway infrastructures of its competence is to unfold paths, to enhance accessibility, to pay attention to the numerous sections in tunnel, to expand the electrification of networks, to eliminate steps at integrated level, to seek a connection with the city, to make more human, welcoming and compact spaces, and that insisting that the ambition of improvement has to seek sustainable and intermodal mobility, well, your proposal I think we could leave it in something that fits in a brainstorming session, but not in a PNL, in our way of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. Passing the answer round, representative of the popular-Chaulous team, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u95	Thank you. To speak seriously and with property, in justification at no time puts that the project that he did know of the City of Getaria, that had studied the possibility of making a basement and making a series of tunnels to equip a railway to the city of... to the people of Getaria, at no time have I referred to those terms. What I wanted to say is that taking advantage of the unlocking that was announced in his day by the mayor of Zarautz, who, for his part, was in favour of reaching an agreement with ETS at the moment for the underground of the roads in his passage through Zarautz, I understood that we could be ambitious, Mrs Lete. Being ambitious means making a projection and doing those informative studies in order to be able to conclude if necessary... if necessary, such a project. But it is true that we cannot forget that it is not only about providing services and being ambitious when the services provided by the Administration are profitable. It is about putting us in the place of those neighbours of Getaria who have many difficulties, especially because their main access route, which is the National 634, because in most of the year, when there is temporary, it is a closed route; then, it is about seeing possibilities to give that neighboring population of Gipuzkoa. Doing the informational study is necessary to know if it can be carried out. I don't think it's..., I didn't pose it as... everyone has in their minds the possibilities that might exist when it comes to creating a station in Getaria. It's not a finalist station that bounces back. We visualized it when we made this proposition not of law as a weed to create by the way, and it will stop in Getaria. I do not know, the truth is that I believe that planning must be open, and allow a future of connection, of intra-connection within the territory of Gipuzkoa much more ambitious, but well, I see that it does not enter into their possibilities or within their need to expand the quality of quality, of the improvement of the quality of life of the glaciers come to think about the possibility of bringing them the station of the mole, or take them the railroad so that they can move in a much more ecological way, much more sustainable than they now have. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. The representative of the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, is your word. [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u97	Yes, hello, again. I'll focus on buried in Zaraut, because I think the words about it were at least the most interesting for us. It was interesting that the representatives of the EAJ said so. I'd like to show that he didn't say a single word against being buried in Zaraut. And it's clear that it was a very deliberate thing to do, because I know they're on the side of burying Zaraut people, and of course the mayor of Zaraut is on the side of burying them too. And it was in January that he introduced that his burial project was the informational study of 2014, with certain changes in the cities. And so it's true that today EAJ hasn't said anything against the grave of Zaraut, maybe he'll say in the second round, but then he'll see what he has to vote for the full rights set by EH Collect. And if I'm not mistaken, if PSE doesn't vote against what he's going to vote, he'll refuse to bury Zaraut. And you have to say that, too. And PSE, you think we're going to tell Mrs. Corcuera that he's made quite a bad excuse for an update on the information about how to bury Zauraut, and for once for all. Because in the end, the main excuse you've made is that there's no light funding, and that's certainly true, but that's not an excuse for getting into other projects. For instance, I remember the solution of the AHT in Bilbo, in which we do not yet know whether or not the notorious Forzata Fortz will place a penny or not, and there's no difficulty in making any progress. So we think we can do an informal study, and see how much money we're talking about, and then look at the financial distribution between you and the council, if we have to share it. Because I'd like to ask you a question. There's a contract in 2009. You said he's stuck. Accompanied, but convicted that the law changed after 2015. The law of public contracts was introduced, and it is said that the treaties which contain more than four years of age are extinguished. Did you hear about it already, but did you hear that? For it was not only in the compact to make an informal study: to do and to test. And it's not tested. Therefore, what we ask at the first point of our whole correction is that the Zaraut burial may be updated, that it may end and be tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The word is yours, Mr Martínez, and from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u99	Yeah. Well, just for what we said on the first round to the desktop, we finally started talking about Getaria, because the initiative started there, but we've finished kicking and talking about burial. And I think it is common sense what is being asked and what we are going to support, in this case for Zarautz, but we always do, as I said, with seriousness and responsibility, to know first the possibilities that exist. And I, also collecting the Mayor's words, collected in the press, preparing this initiative, in favor of the underground and in favor of institutional collaboration, will join in this. If we have doubts as to how things should be done, then first, let us do this informative study. And I suppose the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party in Zarautz will vote in favour of an informational study, and I hope that, if not today, another day can be done here. A little coherence what is done in the localities and what we do at the general level. Because if not, then we have to understand that what the mayor intends to sell in front of these months is smoke in Zarautz. A neighbor platform has come out, quite successfully on the streets, which is asking for that burial. What we're going to back up... We did not even make an amendment because the initiative was talking about Getaria, and we were very clear that that was impossible. But what is being asked is to do that informational study, let us analyse among all and among all the feasibility that this has, that it has other places, and let us see what that informational study tells us, and let us see what the city council has to put and what we have to put on the Basque Government, and whether or not it deserves to improve the quality of life of the citizens of Zarautz every day. I believe that denying that is denying an improvement that is being called for by the mayor of Zarautz himself, who, well, I hope that they will be able to explain it in the locality, because here what was being talked about - and to make it clear - is to do that informative study in order to be able to decide between all of us whether that underground is viable or not. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u100	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u101	Yes, Mr Martínez Zatón, the proposal was about Getaria, but because we did not leave any slacks, as was mentioned in an amendment on the subject of Zarautz, the Basque Socialists do not like to avoid any debate. That is why there have been technical and political issues which cannot at present be seen as an interinstitutional agreement between the parties which could lead us, as Mrs Larrea said, to the fact that the subject of burial has been unravelled, because that is not the case. And if Mrs Larrea is based on statements about what she puts in the media, what Mrs Larrea has to do, which she is entitled to do, is to ask the Government, through oral questions or questions for her written answer, how matters stand. And, of course, the Government, in any area, will answer you properly. To tell Mr Fernandez de Betoño when he was talking about it seems that here Zarautz City Hall has left a lot of things in the air. Look, in 2013, the City Hall... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... When he was talking about the fact that Zarautz City Council here seems to have left a lot of things in the air. Look, in 2013, the Zarautz City Hall, led by Euskal Herria Bildu, submitted two reports to ETS on what alternative was being proposed, the (planning?) and financing, and it said: "In order to determine the percentages of participation in the financing of these works, it is considered important that a comprehensive cost study be carried out". In 2015, ETS, when there was a Mayor of Bildu, sent a DVD with the information study document to discuss it in the convention follow-up committee. And you know what happened? That there was no answer. In 2016, with a mayor of the Basque Nationalist Party, he meets with the director general of ETS and presents the mayor this new idea of station and permeability of the environment. So let us not be hypocrites. We are at a time when no one has denied anything, but neither can we give any evidence of this unravelling of the subject of the institutional agreement, because there is no such thing as an interinstitutional agreement as the Basque Government-Zarautz City Council or ETS-Zarautz City Council, or what is being proposed, because there is no documentation on this issue, there is no ETS, there is no ETS, there is no Basque Government, and there is no participation agreement either. What I did want to make clear is that so far, in all territorial areas, all these agreements on economic participation have been 50-50 %. Why? Because it's, let's say, urban plot penetration. For nothing more. Basque government ETS assumes its responsibilities in the development of works that have nothing to do with what is the penetration into urban plot. And of course we're betting on a decent transport, on a decent public transport, of course, but that doesn't mean we put a blindfold in our eyes and say that anything is worth it; nor are we on the eve of a municipal, outlandish or autonomous election, not anything is worth it. I understand that you do not have the responsibility to govern, but there is no need, I say, to go beyond what such a constructive project entails. We are talking about more than 200 million euros, this is no minute sin. Therefore, when there is agreement on how planning should be developed, on economic participation, when there is such an interinstitutional agreement, of course, there will be study, as it cannot be otherwise. Let us not forget that, today, we are not aware of the conditions with regard to groundwater, groundwater levels, wetland maintenance, and environmental conditions which today are much more restrictive than they were eight years ago, much more restrictive. So, let's be careful. This is not a rock tunnel underground, but it is an underground concrete dam, between 16-20 meters deep and almost two kilometers long. It is therefore obvious that the cost of this work needs to be reconsidered. We therefore continue to bet on that worthy transport, on that efficient public transport as well, and on the co-responsibility of all actors involved in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u103	Thanks again, chief of the Parliament. I tried to explain on the first round why the Eucabertist group didn't file a correction, so I mentioned the Zaraut case. And so I repeat to Mrs. Larrea that it was not right, as you have described, no responde a la realidad. And when that happens, the proposal is infected. The proposal was to the railroad and the Getari's station, to make that branch of the Getari's railroad, not Zingau, Mr. Betoño. And in that case, I repeat, this solution is not the logical one, it is not the most supportable, and it is not the more balanced. That doesn't mean, Miss Larrea, that we don't have to answer the challenge of multimodala and that we don't have to encourage the co-ordination of transport. Of course I am. That's what we have to do, working another way and coordinate. Also, in the polygon of the Oicia, there has been mentioned the circumstances of technical, technical, and I shall never repeat them again. But, well, in any case, Mrs Larrea, the ambition in the ability to project in a better future is a duality that I am sure is the line of work of the Executive and also of the legislature in which we are in. But this doesn't mean any happy idea can thrive, and I think this was a happy idea. The ambition has to be combined with economic capacity, sustainability, estimation of needs, demand and assessment of the economic moment; economic moment, current. Y conjugando todo esto y una equacion compleja, well, yo creo que el Ejecutivo ya esta ejecutando excelente. But you'll have the right hand of the Euez patriots, Mrs. Larrea, I'm sending the same message to the rest of the teams to bring with them the plans and actions. Considering ambitious plans, actions, proposals, action, and management, as well as patience. I'd tell Mr. Betoon that the solution proposed to the rules will be for a long time. In any case, I'd like to remember the steps that Mayor EAJ has taken, and he's taken a few decisive steps. And thanks to them, at this moment, we'll be able to talk again, sobre el informivio. A few years ago, you didn't take steps like that and it wasn't possible. But this isn't a discussion today, this isn't today... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... you didn't take steps like that and it wasn't possible. But this isn't a discussion today, this isn't a proposal today. And no vamos a provecharo el camino para eso. Today's proposal was that of the PPCiudadose team, between Getaris. I think it'll have to encourage speed and multimudality. And in my explanation I have often repeated in what documents and observations our proposition is founded on, and that we must certainly go this way. And besides that, to tell the government that the railway line is really working on it again. As I said before, the railway, the tunnel, the quays, and the railway station, and the tariff system, which are our priorities, are expressed in this manner. And, really, it's best to keep going that way. As a matter of fact, the moment we're at is when we're at a crisis, and that can't be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. After discussion, we'll put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Groups of Populara Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting, 71; supporters of the 7; the opponents, 64; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u105	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; supporters of the party, 24; contrary, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-13.u106	So it's not accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two-thirty-six.
