ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. Before we start the theme list, I can inform you that Mr. Erkoe has his vote. First point in theme list: "The project made by Podemos-Nozzer by the parlamentary team, concerning the change of the rule of the Basque Act. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." As you know, side shift, counter turn. Together, apart from Podemus, the Popular Party... So 15 minutes each.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors. Well, a lot has been talked about in recent weeks and months about budget inefficiencies, about astronomical figures of credit balances, about the review and control of liquidations and their general accounts, about the functionality of certain public enterprises... In short, the development and materialization of the general budget and the role played by this House in its control. The general budgets are the most important legal rule of which this House approves in each year, as they provide the executive and the entities that make up the public sector with the necessary credits to mobilize the real resources of our territory. They are a key instrument for economic governance as they determine many of the parameters that govern the business cycle, set limits to public sector performance and set a path for development. In this regard, and because of its importance, it is appropriate for the proper functioning of a democracy that the extraordinary purchasing and collection power attributed to the Government be subject to scrutiny and legislative control. A democracy is not a static political regime; it is a process of permanent construction, of progressive democratization of our institutions. We are dissatisfied with this democracy, but it is healthy that we are. And that is why our group believes in the need to advance the values of republicanism, with a solid and vigorous institutionality. In the face of the secular trend towards the democratization of our society, let us recognize that in recent times, in recent years, there has been a worrying disenchantment of the economic management of democratic politics: the loss of decision-making capacity of parliaments is a symptom of this evolution. They have become economic issues, or economic issues have become mere elements to sanction in Parliament. Papers prepared by specialists who are expected to be better informed, or who are imbued with higher knowledge, no one knows how certain decisions are made in those bodies, or why. We and we are rebelling against this idea, and we believe that the role of the legislator must be strengthened in economic decision-making processes, whether of impulse or control. Although the development of these functions requires a premise: legislators should not necessarily be experts in economics or have technical knowledge of public finances. Pretending that they were, or that we were, would be a way of reducing democracy to a simple technocracy. In this House we sit people with a fortunately diverse baggage, which can bring knowledge and experience to the budgetary process. Such wealth can inflate realism, and a more accurate and sensitive analysis and closer to the real problems of society. It is true that the general budgets are a document of extraordinary complexity, but our group affirms that the answer cannot be to move towards technocratization and opacity, but to equip the legislator with the appropriate instruments to enable him to exercise his role with rigour and diligence. In order for legislators to make or make the best possible decisions when studying, approving and amending budget projects, we must have independent and professional studies and reports on the actual costs of the action programmes proposed by the Government, and the resources available for their implementation, and know their social and economic impact. In addition, they must perform this task, or we must perform this task in sufficient time to study carefully and... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ...and know its social and economic impact. Moreover, they must carry out this task, or we must carry out this task, with sufficient time to study carefully and understand the draft general budgets. It is therefore crucial for our democracy to have independent and competent professional resources that meet the information needs of parliamentarians. In the United States in 1974, the Congress Budget Office was established, which fulfils this function of assistance, support and budget control. It was the first constituted in its history. A neutral and independent office of economics, finance and public finance professionals at the service of congressmen and senators. More closely in time and geography, in 2010 Law 37/2010, of 15 November, created in the Spanish General Courts a figure similar to the Budget Office of the American Congress. The purpose of this office was to articulate within the Chambers an effective mechanism for technical advice on monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the General State Budgets and on those aspects that have an impact on public revenue and expenditure. An instrument, inspired by the principles of independence, objectivity and transparency, which is available to Members and Senators. Based on this background, we have proposed an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of this House to create a Budget Office of the Basque Parliament, which will articulate an effective and rigorous mechanism of technical advice on the monitoring and control of the implementation of the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community and on those aspects which have an impact on public revenue and expenditure. This instrument will strengthen the democratic control of the legislative branch over the Executive by allowing parliamentarians access to all the information they require for the effective performance of their duties and with fixed deadlines. In the proposal, we set out exactly the functions to be performed by that office. This does not apply exclusively to the collection of information on the estimates of collection, collection of tax expenditure and technical impact or accompaniment to the parliamentary groups in the course of the budget or the analysis of the amendments thereto. We have added novel elements that are not developed by other budget offices, such as the advice and evaluation of the gender reports attached to the normative and legislative texts that are budgetary in nature or deadlines in the delivery of performance level reports - for example, a six-monthly report on the expenditure on the execution of real investments in the autonomous public sector. We also add the possibility that any citizen, with the reservations of the data subject to confidentiality, may have these same reports within the same time limits as parliamentarians. In our view, this proposal provides the legislator with tools and capabilities with regard to its role of control and budgetary impetus. It would bring improvements in the budgetary process and in the effective implementation of government plans. We don't think it's a controversial initiative at all. And it is also easy to apply by simply exercising compared to other autonomous parliaments, with Parliament, with the Congress of Deputies and the Senate or with other legislative bodies in other latitudes. There is as usual practice for decades already in countless, as I said, legislative bodies. And, therefore, we would not understand that it did not come out today, nor even discuss such an initiative. Why not here? It can be said that the framework for reform of the Regulation should be adapted to a more general framework, discussed in a presentation framework. This has been said since several legislatures. And the reality is that this paper on the reform of the Rules of Procedure is not active. We have no opportunity to discuss such issues of reform of the Rules of Procedure in any other area than this. And, for that reason, we have recorded this initiative of forming a budgetary office because we believe that the legislator must be given tools and capacities for the effective control of the budgets and the liquidation of the budgets. And the other way around... That it is basically an exercise of transparency what we are trying to formulate and develop, and that has already been implemented in many other places. Not even the debate on this initiative and, basically, a look elsewhere on the part of, basically, the groups that support the Government with the excuse of the necessary activation of a presentation for the development of the amendment of the Regulation is that, an excuse. And time will say, time will say if it's an excuse or it's really real. Because if this can be discussed at some point within the framework of an activation of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure and this goes into that framework of debate, we will see whether it goes ahead or not. If this has been an excuse, the necessary activation of the paper to discuss this, or there really is a will to set up a budgetary office, with all the modifications, with all the change needs that may require in this case our specific initiative, but in any case, time will determine whether there is a will on the part of the parliamentary groups that support the Government to set up at some point a budgetary office that assists parliamentarians in their obligation to control and drive the Government in the development and preparation of budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u2	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Bureau. Mr. Lehendakari. Members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. The initiative brought to us today by the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos and specifically Mr Soto is an initiative that is not new in this House. I'll tell you later. The arguments that we will hear or at least with our group will also express here are also well-known arguments. I, unlike what Mr Soto usually does, who when I put forward a proposal of this kind I usually agree with everything and then vote against it, I will point out a few things to him, but then we will vote in favour. What is the raison d'être of all this? What does budgetary control mean? Let's see, budget control is fundamental, form... , the implementation of the budget, is part of what the life of a budget is. In parliamentary life the negotiation or approval process of a budget, the implementation that comes from the previous one and then the liquidation of the next one is usually overlapped. It's a complex, complicated process. And above all the execution and the verification and control of the execution is an aspect... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...the execution that comes from the previous, and then the liquidation of the next. It is a complex and complicated process. And above all, enforcement and verification and enforcement is a very important aspect from the legal point of view of accounting, and also from the political point of view, because that is whether a Government actually spends money on what it says, promises and consolidates in a law that will be spent on it. We have been saying this to our group, and I, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, believe that it is already an idea that has had to be made clear by this House. It is an idea that we have been repeating, because it is not an argument, it is a data, there is an effective data, and that is that, specifically, in the investment chapter in general, it must also be acknowledged, but this government in particular, because it is a government that remains more or less in half, sometimes a little more, a little less, but it does not come to an average of 50% of executions. We will see in the execution, in the liquidation of last year's budget, that we are still waiting in this House, it is a pity that the Economics Councilor does not accompany us today, but in the end, I expected him by the end of May, I suppose he is at the time of the liquidation of 2021. The liquidation of the budget will tell us whether those budgets that are always announced, well, here the truth is that lately the budgets are all the most social. It is true that the last one we have already changed rather than the most social, they were going to be the most investors, but in the end, it serves us to see if those budgets were actually the most investors, the most social, or the most... because the best budgets, which is what every government always defends. The situation in which we come up with the issue of budgetary implementation in the Basque Country, as I see, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is a difficult, strange situation for anyone who misses it, but, well, most of this House is what it is defending, and it is defending the Government in that sense, and it is that, of course, we had a system of budgetary settlement that involved approving the liquidation through a rule with a legal rank, of course, as this was stopped from the year 2005 to 2019, that is to say, we failed to comply with the rule already too much, what was decided, because what every Parliament is doing, isn't it?, every Government is asking, let us change the rule. I don't like the rule, let's change it. Changes in the norm, and the norm changed. In general, Mr Soto's argument in this sense is that it is not an argument, it is given, therefore, it is indisputable. Man, he's got some issues on him talking about... "no, it's that republicanism and so on." Let's see, the states of Europe that best execute and control budgets, hear, give chance, what chance, man, they are parliamentary monarchies: Denmark, Sweden, United Kingdom. But hey, that's probably a coincidence that doesn't come to light. Let's see, the creation of a budget office is not a new idea in the comparative panorama. Mr. Soto quoted the famous... well, at the congress (?), the CBO of the United States Congress, one of the first cases, let's say, of rationalizing, above all, the parliamentary debate on budgetary matters. We could also talk about that of the European Parliament, and that of 2010, which, by the way, there the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group pressed hard enough for approval at national level, or as usual, in the state. The point is, it's a good idea. In fact, it is such a good idea that this is not the first time it has been raised in this Parliament either. In 2001, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has already presented this initiative, it has already presented an initiative in this regard, which the Government groups finally pushed back, those who supported the Government, adopting a rather decaffeinated compromise amendment, in which it said yes, man, what is now said, that the Government is committed to sending the data. We're already in June, to see if we're being cleared. That they undertake to send the data on budgetary clearances in time so that Parliament can, of course, carry out its control in the implementation of the budget. The proposal did not go ahead. There was another parliamentary group very aware with this, the Socialist parliamentary group, which in the same legislature, the seventh, but now a little later, in 2003, although it was approved in 2004, because in fact, another initiative was presented, than the signature, besides, as an illustrious parliamentarian who also accompanies us, Mr... Pardon me, some honourable Members who, although no longer accompanying us, said, but well, for I say that the baggage of all this because it will also have fallen into your parliamentary group; therefore, it is not a new idea, it is not a new idea, and it is an idea that has already been discussed in this Parliament. The parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos has presented in this legislature, the twelfth, which did not, by the way, present it as a non-legislative proposal. At a certain point, he heard, withdrew and decided to present it as a proposal to amend the Regulation. Here are two questions, one on form and one on substance. On the substantive issue, for starters. I'm a little surprised by Elkarrekin's position We can even say hello, eh? I say hi, but I'm surprised. I am surprised, because a few days ago in another initiative, which is also quite related to this in terms of budget implementation, with the same arguments that Mr Soto has used – except for Republicanism, we have to say this – because he could have voted perfectly in favour of our initiative. However, man, what he usually does, usually gives reason to the arguments, and then votes against or abstains. In that case, well, he abstained, just like that. We are consistent with the position we have been maintaining on budgetary implementation, and therefore on the control of the implementation of the budget, and that is why we voted in favour in 2001, we voted in favour in 2004, when the Socialist Group presented it, and we will also vote in favour now. On the matter of form or procedure, procedure, the approval mechanism. Man, I think, of course, if it is treated as a proposal, a proposal for a reform of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House, well, if you follow their procedure, what happens is that we have a paper, our group signed it at the beginning of the parliamentary term in order, in fact, to carry out a series of amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Soto says: "man, it must not be an obstacle, it must not be an obstacle to the presentation of a reform, that is, you cannot tell me now to wait for the presentation to be convened when there is an initiative that is interesting". Well, I can also agree with him on this point, what happens is that, man, an equal initiative does, but I have already seen that other initiatives have also been recorded in the reform of the Rules of Procedure, and man, I believe that yours, because I believe it must be to convene once and for all the presentation of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, which we are already in the middle of a parliamentary term. When you reach the parliaments in the middle of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, it is when you start to take out the laws, that you already know that you are not going to go out or that you are going to stay there, there to warm up the electoral environment. But, man, I think it would be interesting for us to try the parliamentary groups, and our group has already asked several times, to convene the presentation on the reform of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in conclusion, and with this I conclude. I think it is better to deal with the reform of the Rules of Procedure once and not by means of fascicles, but we are going to support this reform, and we support this reform and we support this measure, because it is the line in which modern parliaments go, it is the line that involves greater control by the government, and above all, it is the line that provides greater transparency in what is the management, in this case, of the public thing, which is also a parliamentary monarchy. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Since there are no reverse shifts... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...which is also a parliamentary monarchy. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Because there are no reverse shifts. Now that the dispute is over, the law will vote whether the proposition be considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 12; the contrary, 40; the abstainments, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u6	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll go to a vote. Vox-Mistoa, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u7	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... of the budget office as a parliamentary support body. Since our political formation, we believe that monitoring and monitoring the work of the executive is one of our main tasks: the work of monitoring by the opposition must serve as a counterweight to the work of the executive. We share the draft budget, which is one of the most important laws passed by the Government, and which must therefore, of course, be subjected to rigorous scrutiny by opposition groups. We also share the need for the creation of such a body to support political groups. But we disagree with some of the issues raised by the proposal. A body of this nature must ensure the impartiality and neutrality of its members, and in our view, as proposed, these issues are not guaranteed. The procedure for electing the members of this body must be scrupulously aseptic from a political point of view, and, in this regard, the proposal favours the politicization of the compositional system of its members. We do not share the view that the Bureau of Parliament and the presidency of this House should elect the direction of this body. Firstly, not all political parties are represented in the Bureau, and it is also a body composed strictly of politicians. This, beyond the good intentions that this proposal might have, would mean a totally politicized selection process. From here, politicization continues in vertical descent. The deputy director will be appointed by the management, and the rest of the staff will be proposed by the political parties, including the vest that the political affiliation of the candidates cannot be taken into account. Political affiliation is information subject to special protection and therefore difficult to know without the will of the affected person. Moreover, within political parties, there are people without any affiliation, but with a higher degree of militancy, commitment and ideological affinity in many cases than those of an affiliate. Therefore, this addition, which reflects the proposal, does not imply any shielding in the face of the possible politicization that is intended to prevent the initiative. We are faced with an organ which, through this procedure of choice, guarantees the politicization of the same and circumvents the principle of impartiality that must be governed by such an organism. If they really want a neutral and aseptic body from a political point of view, the composition of the members of this body should be made up of a system, for example, of opposition, which guarantees equality and removes any suspicion of political favouritism. And in line with this approach, we disagree that it should be a body whose mandate goes hand in hand with each legislature. From our point of view, it should be a permanent body whose composition cannot be conditioned by the parliamentary majorities of every moment. So from Vox we would bet on a permanent body, made up of a body of officials that would guarantee their impartiality and solvency. There are a number of other issues that we do not share, such as the possibility of hiring external persons or consultants on an occasional basis, depending on the complexity of the study. We believe that a system of election of members through an opposition system would ensure, in addition to its neutrality, the necessary capacity and solvency among its members to avoid the recruitment of external staff. Therefore, as the proposal is designed, the budgetary control office would be born addicted, politicized and subject to political scrutiny; and, therefore, it would not meet the criteria of impartiality and neutrality that should prevail in the development of these functions. Finally, we cannot agree with the section on advice and evaluation of gender reports. The budget office should be an informational and non-valuative body. The office should confine itself to gathering information and transferring it to the parliamentary groups, who would be responsible for carrying out the appropriate interpretations. The office is not an interpretation body or an entity of ideological assessments as the proposal seeks. We are talking about an entity of a strictly technical nature, alien to any political and ideological approach. Clearances, implementation rates, credit transfers or graphs are gender-neutral. We cannot therefore share the idea of turning a budget support office into a centre for ideological interpretation, as the proposal proposes. Finally, by saying that we could agree to the creation of a budgetary office as proposed here, we therefore do not share the terms of the proposal, so our vote has been negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u8	Thank you... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... setting up a budgetary office as proposed here, so we do not share the terms of the proposal, so our vote has been negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u9	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The Basque Socialists have voted against the initiative, on the basis of the consideration and political conviction that Parliament, with our vote, maintains its autonomy, independence and freedom to organise and carry out its activities. This Parliament, as an important part of the democratic system, plays a central role in the whole budgetary process: in its approval, in the control of the accounts and in the monitoring of their implementation. And so important, that the Rules of Procedure of the House, the third title, in chapter three, on specializations in the legislative procedure, the first section is devoted to the draft Law on General Budgets of the Autonomous Community in articles 153 to 157. And the Basque Socialists voted against the initiative for seven reasons: Firstly, because you are proposing a timely amendment of the regulation, when the reform of the regulation must be envisaged in a whole range of matters which will enable it to be updated if it is deemed necessary. Secondly, in Euskadi, as a matter of competition, the revenue from the budget depends on the Foreign Ministers and the expenditure of the Government; something that does not happen in the State, so the volume of budgetary information to work in Euskadi, here, is much lower than at the state level. Thirdly, budget offices are not a modern tool. They were created in Parliaments in the last century, even before. As in Andalusia, for example, in 1995; in Murcia in 1988; or at the beginning of this century, as in the Canary Islands in 2003. Years when there were neither the tools nor the human or material means at our disposal today, at least the parliamentarians here in Euskadi, to obtain up-to-date and comprehensive budgetary information, so as to be able to carry out adequate monitoring of the budgets, and finally to carry out our political work. Fourth justification. We Socialists have already tabled a non-legislative proposal in 2003, and in 2004 a proposal for a law with the same purpose, the creation of a budgetary office. Both initiatives were rejected by the opposing votes of Basque nationalists, Eusko Alkartasuna and Ezker Batua. In 2008, we tabled an amendment to the presentation on the global reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House, and the agreement reached provided more means for the parliamentary groups to develop our work in this House more effectively. Fifth place. Today, 14 years later, we Basque parliamentarians have tools, material and human means to enforce our rights, and to fulfil our obligations as members of this Parliament - both in the general sphere and with regard to budgets in particular - on the basis of budgetary information that obliges the Basque Government to be truthful, to be up-to-date, to be transparent and to be exhaustive. With both economic and control and budget implementation reports, responding to questions raised, and requests for information made by parliamentarians. Sixthly, its proposal raises an overstaffing, duplicity of reports, and an excessive number of functions with respect to, for example, the Budget Office of the General Courts. That deals, by the way, with the general budgets of the State with an absolutely incomparable dimension to the Euskadi budgets. Seventhly, we have voted against because while the Basque Socialists value having human and material means to improve our work every day, this proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita does not seek to have more or better information, but rather to interpret it and how to interpret it. With a solution that seems inappropriate to us when the parliamentary instruments for continuous, up-to-date and detailed information on all stages of a budget are already in place. And they're even incorporating technical improvements. And when there is, there is an external control by law of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which is available to all parliamentary groups. Groups in which we also have assistants to collaborate and help us technically in our parliamentary task. Whether in this area, in the budget, as in the field of employment, housing... Finally, in each and every area we work in this House as parliamentarians and parliamentarians. For these reasons we voted no to the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. Well, we've gone to the abscessium. We'll never say no to discussion. And that's why we've gone to abscessium in this case. I don't think we're going to say no to that. But it is no less true that it has already been mentioned, and we have abstained on an important issue. We were talking about an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of this House. And well, at the beginning of this legislature a non-legislative proposition was raised regarding the opening of a... the presentation already provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House for the examination of the Rules themselves, and proposals for amendments to the Rules themselves. In that... In that debate we have already put on the table that we had doubts that this parliamentary term would activate this presentation. It's been two years and we're where we are, Mr. Soto... - Barkatu, badakit azalpena boto, orina konturatu naiz. But it is no less true that we believe that any amendment to the regulation has to be made with an overall view of that regulation itself. We believe that beyond things that may seem more or less interesting to us, an amendment to the Regulation should be addressed which would address three basic needs, such as transparency, information and citizen participation. And that's where we're going. Therefore, we consider that this initiative, without questioning at any time its good intention, and... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... In those we'll keep going. Therefore, we believe that this initiative, without questioning at any time its good intention, and noting and stressing that we consider important everything that benefits the information of this House and the good work and deliberation of this House. It is no less true that everything related to the regulation should be dealt with in the body that is already there, and not just because a GNP says so, but because the regulation itself of this House stipulates it, the regulation itself of the House stipulates it in the body in which the regulation should be discussed in its entirety, because there are many things to change, many things to update and many things to improve to serve the citizenry as it deserves. That is the basic function of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Today's budget office initiative... Well, as you have seen − this creation initiative, it has been raised by our negative vote. There are several arguments, and I'll put four of them on. The first is an improper legal instrument used. As you know, it's not morally possible to change the government's functions using the Rule of the Parliament. That requires a law. To-day, in what Podemos takes the example, the budget was made in this court office by a law. So we know it's a mistake, yes. What made me wonder even in the position of the Populative Group, has struck me with its assent, especially as Mr. Gordillo has said, that this group, changing the Law of Pre Account, or the Regiment Act from 1997, has introduced the Instructions, but requiring a change of the Law. And two: The members of this group are always strictly protecting legal technical procedures. As to the instrument used, a law is required, and not a change of rule. Bigarrena. Edukian zehaztasun gabeziak ere ikusten ditugu. And to cite some example, I would say that, for example, the Basque Government is requested to submit in certain reports that are now being submitted, such as the budget implementation report - which is being presented and sent quarterly - or the annual budgetary clearance report that is being forwarded not annually, but twice a year, since it is being sent both with the draft budgets and - now with the new procedure, as Mr Gordillo commented - with the liquidation in the audit report of the Basque Court of Auditors. And certain reports are also requested that are not the responsibility of the Basque Government, such as the Income Control Report, because - as you know - the share of income is the responsibility of the Deputies. Beraz, as I said, clearly confused between the institutions and their competences and therefore certain inaccuracies in the content. Third. By right compared. If we look at the rest of the autonomous communities that could have budget offices like those presented we find Catalonia. It has a law of 2007 to create a budgetary office, but unless I make a mistake, it has not yet been created. We have Navarra, who, through an outside law, facilitates certain computer access to parliamentary groups, but there is nothing else, there is no budget office as such to advise parliamentary groups. And we find Andalusia, which could be the autonomous community that would have something similar to what is proposed today, which is more or less what they have what is in the State in the General Courts, but as such has nothing to do with the functions - there is nothing more to see comparing Law 37/2010 of the General Courts with the proposal that is proposed to us today - the functions have nothing to do with it and the situations are not comparable either. And I say they're not comparable, why? On the one hand - as I have already mentioned - because income control is divided into different institutions, there is a clear difference between the state, which we have a single power of control, and here in Euskadi we have government, parliaments and therefore parliament and general assemblies. It is not comparable for the immediacy of the Basque Government's response on budgetary matters with that of the State, and it is a question... It's unquestionable. The government's control over budget implementation by initiatives presented could say that it is practically daily. And then the information. The information available to us in the parliamentary groups - which is overwhelming and there is nothing more to see than the Finance and Finance website of the Department of Economics and Finance - in which I would say that we have more or less the same information available to the Vice-President of Budgets. Therefore, we say no to this initiative so proposed by the proposed legal instrument and its concrete content. But basically - and as I said at the beginning of my speech - for the fourth reason. Because it is a proposal to be discussed and discussed in another forum where in the paper created in this Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House, because yes, as you said, Mr Soto, there is a paper created. A paper that no group, nor his own, the proposer, has activated or called for calls or put forward proposals. But today we have an initiative, but there is a similar one. This and that of the publicity of the patrimony of parliamentarians who, instead of presenting ourselves in a paper, among all the issues to be improved by the regulation, prefer to come to this forum when we have already created a paper to precisely work on this issue, to address an integral modification of the regulation from the work and the discretion of a paper, from the analysis of ideas and proposals and from sharing reflections to improve the functioning of this House rather than with modifications and by launching messages from this forum with a - I would say - with a path or a bad orientation. Unfortunately, I see that not all of us choose the same path. We have clear: work, discrepancy...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u16	Bai. Work, discretion, progress since...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u17	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u18	Yeah. Work, discretion, progress since the presentation, but without populisms and demagogies. I hope in the following propositions... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...work, discretion, progress since...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u20	Yeah. Work, discretion, progress since the presentation, but without populisms and demagogies. I hope that the following proposals will reflect this idea and that we will go to the presentation, which is what our group will endorse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Second on the subject list... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u22	One question. Explanations of vote must be regulated. It cannot be that this direct confrontation between Mrs Berrojalbiz and Mr Soto and Mr Gordillo cannot be answered. It can't be, Madam President. We ask you to regulate the explanations of vote in a way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u23	The Rules of Procedure... It's a rule of procedure. Eskerrik asko, eskerrik asko. Second point on the subject list: "Mertion, Pazis Garcia Ortega EH of the DUGs, concerning the partnership agreement signed by Osacides and Mutuallia. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mrs. Garcia, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u24	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. I want to say hello to the members of the LAB union who have come to this discussion: Good morning to you, too. The member of Osa in May 5 has signed a contract of cooperation with Mutuli so that the doctors of both organizations can receive direct history of workers who are helping health from both services. On account of the consequences which this conspiracy might have in the health of the workmen, we directed an interpolation to the chief physician of health, to know the reasons for the Government to sign this Confederation, and, as we told him, in an improper manner the chief physician of Job and Empedugus was also interposed, because that which had been agreed on that conviction was a direct connection with the health of the workers. By this term, the government delivers files and clinical historians into the hands of the Mutulia. I mean, this coworker agreement will allow Mutuallia to recognize the health precedents of the workingmen at Osata, the tests, the tests... For this purpose, according to this agreement, the necessary technical means will be given, not only to consult the doctor's history of the Mutulias, but also to extract it from the clinical information base and access it into the clinical information of Mutuallua. It is, therefore, not only the clinical history which enables the Multuallia to be examined by informal instruments, but the historical clinical. And that's serious. It must be observed that in the members of the community history is based on the confidence between the doctor and the patient, in which ratings and data can appear more than health, including family precedents, on the influence of their health. In the service, the patient is a patient, in the Mutuli, the patient is a sick hand. Access to the clinical history of members of the community is an old demand for the dumb. This, therefore, is an ancient question, which they had not yet succeeded; nor in 2014, when he accepted the law of the dumb even with the government of the Spanish PP. But now, having made use of this law of PP, the old request of the silent covenant signed by Osacides and Mutulians is to be satisfied, by strengthening the position of the public health system. We must remember that the mute, the Mutulia, is a company of businessmen of private nature. Thus it is not a coincidence that the director of Mutualia in 2016 should be president of Confebask, from Mutulia to Confebask in a natural course. So we can say that mutes are a historical anomaly. In other countries of Europe, they were integrated into the public system, and in countries where they had not been integrated, they formed it in France with the share of the workmen. But in our hearts the mutes have endured and strengthened themselves. In our case the mutes are an anomaly because they are a parallel system of public health services. And in this parallel system of corporate associations, the care of the health of the workers is paid for by public funds. The health department justified the agreement in the need of an intimidating health, but it is the same system for the health of the workers that distributes health in two ways: In mutes like Mutualia, health at work and health out of Osar. Nevertheless, instead of directing this anomaly, these corporations, such as Mutulia, have been invested with more and more power, till they have become the helpers of the public system of security, and have more and more public funds. Now, the signed agreement by membership strengthens this means of mute power. There are plenty of reasons to be very critical with the health care of the working people that is done from these business mutuals like Mutualia, as they have been denouncing all the unions. And the reasons are several. Inadequate highs; i.e., highs that extend without having completed the total recovery of the working person. Because the goal of medical care in mutuals is to keep the drop as short as possible, as many companies want and pressure, even if this means they have to go to work sick. As I said, in Osakidetza, sick people are patient in mutuals, in Mutualia, patients are sick labor. Another problem raised by mutual societies is the lack of recognition and referral of occupational diseases to the public health system, because mutual societies in too many cases do not recognize their relationship to work. Access to clinical history can be used to... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... the public health system, because mutuals in too many cases do not recognize their relationship to work. Access to the clinical history can be used to use the data contained in it, to follow the current path of considering that work-related diseases are common diseases or that relapses from work-related accidents are common diseases. And all this, in addition, generates significant damage. First of all, the public health system itself, which ends up paying for what would belong to the mutuals. For this reason, the public system has had to be equipped with what are called alerts on suspicion of occupational disease and have to be able to redirect it to the mutual. Secondly, it is detrimental to the health of all workers, because their registration and non-recognition of occupational diseases by mutual societies prevent preventive measures from being taken. And another usual practice that is well known to primary care professionals in Osakidetza is the pressing that is done from the mutuals for medical discharge in the discharge processes for common illness attended by the public system. And therefore, contrary to what the counselor said, the bureaucracy will not be lightened, because access to the clinical record by Mutualia can increase this pressure that generates a bureaucracy of reports and counter-reports in which the medical staff of the public system has to invest time to justify their action before the mutuals. We can also talk about the telephone calls and request for supplementary explorations that workers can receive during the convalescence by the mutual, even being a process of common disease attended to in Osakidetza. As I told the counselor, the strengthening of the power of the mutuals, which is what this Osakidetza-Mutualia agreement does, is based on three great falsehoods. The first is the neoliberal mantra that public resources are better managed from private entities. This implies that the business class, through mutual societies, managing public money is a judge and a part in the occupational health and counter-power of the public health system in favor of a mercantilist view of the health of the working people. The second falsehood is the suspicion about the casualties of Osakidetza professionals. This staff of Osakidetza, which is incorporated into the public system through tests of public access, is subjected to the control and pressure of the mutuals. And the third is suspicion of working people when they get sick. It is not by chance Confebask's campaign to place absenteeism as the great labor problem, while they do not say nor mu in the face of indecent labor sinisterity. Access to the clinical history by Mutualia will contribute to the further creation of an image for which the disease would be the result of individual responsibility, forming a consciousness that blames the workers in triggering the disease, exonerating the socio-economic structure as a constant alien to the disease process. And since this is the picture of the management of the health of the workers by the mutuals, the Osakidetza-Mutualia Convention is not acceptable, because it goes in the opposite direction - to strengthen its position vis-à-vis the public health system - so it will hardly serve to end the aforementioned bad practices and which have been denounced by all trade unions. A month ago, the Chief of Working and Employment presented the strategy of health. In that presentation, we asked him if when they talked about the plan's integration with health, they thought they'd put history in the hands of the mutes, and they said no, but a month later another group of chiefs decided to do it. Even in this presentation, the Basque Country ordained the need to examine the state of the silent working people's health. The chief department also justified the institutation of the health of work, but, as we see, the government has not the complete view of the health of the workers. And we see with a partial view the health of the health and the work and the occupation, each for himself. As well as the health department is justified by signing a contract, because the clinical history belongs to the working man and the worker's license will be required. I can imagine that this argument will be used to-day, and therefore we must recall that the liberty which the workers have of deciding in an individual manner in the work-matter becomes too much chimeras. However, the clinic historical being that of the working man is the question: Why didn't he consult with the workers' representatives like that with the unions? Why? This is in contradiction with that which is received in the political strategy of this government. For this strategy indicates that three co-workers should be the column of any proposal or action in the security and health area of the work. And yes, even in the street, the unions have given their opinion on the conviction. Two weeks ago, the unions of ELA, LA, LAAB and Steilas protested against the Os membership and the Mutulian treaty. The agreement with the Mutuli is a new step to the priorization of public health, and they requested the health of the workers to be in public hands, not in the hands of the owners. For this reason, as we said to the head of the Medical Department, the health of the workers is the most important thing that the agreement between Osac and the Mutulian must be cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word. [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. I'm going to be very brief. We'll vote for the motion introduced by EH Collect. We need to remember that this motion comes after an interpelation, and, well, we don't have corrections and we'll vote negatively, as I said. The truth is that we do not see any inconvenience to the partnership agreement signed in Osakidetza and Mutualia on 5 May to allow the optional staff of both parties to consult directly the files and clinical records of the persons receiving assistance from the two services. The purpose of this agreement is not only to access information, but also to incorporate new information into the files. And, of course, all in order to give comprehensive care, where we see no problem to which these clinical records are shared and, therefore, the information is shared. We also understand that the objective also pursued is to avoid duplication, which we especially welcome and welcome. Because we, of course, believe that when we manage and when it is managed by the public authorities we must be rigorous in the management of money – which, by the way, is of all people – and we must also look for effectiveness in public spending. And, in this regard, I believe that at a time when we are also witnessing a complexity of certain processes in the health field, due to the ageing of the population itself, greater demand, because obviously the more information is shared, the better it will be for everyone. Therefore, we do not see any inconvenience. We also believe that sensitive information that can logically accompany files and all health information is particularly protected by the Data Protection Act. And, as I say, taking into account the private nature of the data contained in these health records and in the clinical records this agreement, as we all know, you yourself should know, will only have effect when the persons concerned grant an express authorisation for the staff of both organizations to share their data. In addition, we see that it is a significant number of people affected. And we, of course, opt for measures that can at all times encourage public-private collaboration in different areas. We have no problem if that is for the benefit of the citizens. It is our vision and, of course, it is the position we maintain and we will vote against its initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u27	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u28	Good morning, congressmen. The truth is that there are no nuances to this initiative: either with the employer or with the working class. We are faced with an agreement signed by Osakidetza or by the Basque Government with Mutualia, in which, in our view, the interests of the employer, the employers, versus the interests, and, more specifically, the health of the workers are determined. And, in this sense, I think everyone knows in front of that confrontation of interests where it is located, where Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is going to be located. In our view, the motivation for this agreement signed by the Government with Mutualia is nothing other than to give pleasure to Confebask's hysteria in relation to what they have called "work absenteeism". What they call absenteeism at work, which to a large extent includes layoffs, temporary incapacity, i.e. when workers are unable to work for health reasons, whether due to common diseases or occupational diseases or accidents. And, of course, we draw our attention and denounce that zeal and pressure from the employer on this that they call absenteeism from work regarding the silence that they keep in front of the thousands of extraordinary hours that are being held in this country and that since my coalition we have been denouncing; many of them, moreover, without paying wages to the workers. That excess of hours versus medical casualties, which they say costs them a lot of money. Or also the silence they keep in the face of accidents at work that have not just been resolved and that are still too many - and too many who unfortunately end up dying - versus this pressure on what they call absenteeism at work, which includes the health of workers, the absence of work for health reasons. We therefore, of course, join in the call for this cooperation agreement to be annulled. In addition, it is a partnership agreement that, in our view, somehow devalues the role of public health, Osakidetza, and its professionals. It is striking that the councillor yesterday asked us or asked society for a cultural change in view of her inability to equip Osakidetza, the public health, with sufficient staff, to ask us for a cultural change in the face of the cuts in the hours of health centers; to ask us to get used to having to move to more distant health centers, or to ask us to have to somehow get used to forgetting the nearest hospitals, the regional hospitals. And at the same time he asks us this that they call cultural change, as they propose this kind of agreements with the mutuals, which in our opinion are another step also in the privatization of health, in particular as regards... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... agreements with mutual societies, which, in our view, are also a further step towards the privatization of health, in particular as regards the health of workers. We also take the opportunity to denounce the more than questionable role of mutual societies, which operate on purely economic criteria in favour of the interests of employers, which limit losses, which results from their actions in an under-declaration of professional diseases more than demonstrated in time by the trade union centres and which, in many cases, also carry a series of irregularities that run counter to the privileges and high salaries of their managers. We therefore, of course, ask you, although the Councilwoman is not here, to cancel this partnership agreement, this new step in the privatization of health. That has its previous reference in that Law of Mutuals, which has already been cited, of the year 2014 approved by the People's Party. But not only by the People's Party, approved by the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and Convergence and Union. It is true that it has a precedent, in 1995 with the Socialist Party, where already part of the management of the common contingencies somehow passed to the mutuals. But it is true that it was that law in 2014 that strengthened the power and role of mutual societies on the health of working people. The mutuals, moreover, with their economic management of the casualties, produce a transfer of public resources from Social Security to the reserve funds of the mutuals themselves. Therefore, we, of course, oppose that agreement. We believe that it is a big mistake, that the government should back down. And we also hope to hear from the Socialist Party. Because Mrs. Pazis made reference... Mrs. Garcia, made reference to this issue, to the position of the Socialist Party. That we understand that it is part of this government. But we have heard you many times oppose these kinds of issues. We believe that today they should oppose this agreement that has been signed between Osakidetza and Mutualia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u30	Thank you, Madam President. A lot of things are getting mixed up here. It's making a totum revolution. And I am going to thank Mr Hernández for bringing up Mrs Garcia's interrogations of the Socialist Party. Because it has drawn my attention that in that inquiry, where we cannot talk, I made continuous references to the Socialist Party, but today, which we can discuss, I do not do them. But I think it's important. Because he made a direct appeal to us, the same one Mr Hernández made to us, but they do it on a rather biased stage composition. And I'm going to explain myself. Because they tell us: "Hey, in 2015 there was a law that led the People's Party forward, with the opposition of the Socialist Party, we criticize it, that turned the mutuals into collaborating entities of Social Security." And, in addition, you told us, Mrs. Garcia, "They brought here a non-law proposal in 2015." And, of course, then you make the following conclusion, giving a twist: "If you develop anything you say in the law you are being inconsistent." Of course, and what I have to say to you, Mrs Garcia, Mr Hernández, is: "And nothing has happened in the middle of those seven years, from 2015 to 2022?". Because, look, in the interpellation, Mrs Garcia said, she read a fragment of my colleague Gloria Sánchez's intervention. And, curiously enough, he chose the fragment very well. He didn't choose others. He did not choose others as relevant as when my partner said that a decision of this kind should have been preceded by a social dialogue and it did not exist. Because, Mrs Garcia, I recognize that this reform of 2015 was made without political consensus and was made without social dialogue, to which we were quite accustomed by the absolute majority of the People's Party. But in these seven years things have happened. Look, speaking of coherence, during all this time, during that time of the government of Mariano Rajoy, if we repeat something the socialists is that it was necessary to regain political consensus and social dialogue. In fact, in that same debate in 2015 my bench companion - another of the fragments you decided not to read - said: "With this reform without dialogue the Rajoy Government flees from political and social consensus that can ensure that reforms of this great significance are of the future and therefore have a character of permanence." And following with consistency. After the motion of censure that led us to the government, we already called elections in 2019. And the Socialists have made an express commitment in this same direction in our electoral programme. I'll give you the page in case you want to go see her. Page 90 of the Socialist election program in 2019. And I read it: "Resuming the Toledo Pact and social dialogue as vertebrating tools of Social Security." And you know what happened? That we won the election. And you know what we did? Comply with our commitment and we convened the Toledo Pact Follow-up Commission, as we had committed ourselves. And after many debates, including the system of mutual collaborators with Social Security, the Congress of Deputies voted, voted a report on 19 November 2020, with 262 deputies in favour, two against and 78 abstentions. And among those votes against are neither EH Bildu nor Podemos. In fact, we can vote in favour and EH Bildu abstained. And, as I have told you, these discussions and the conclusions and recommendations adopted speak of mutual partners with Social Security. Similarly, Mr Hernández, you have not read what you voted for in the Congress of Deputies. I'll read it to you. "Mutuals play an important role within the system by assuming the coverage of benefits corresponding to professional contingencies and by collaborating in the management of other benefits". And it also says, "Its efficiency needs to be strengthened. And for this it is necessary to complete the process of modernization and transparency in its operation, to provide them with a margin of flexibility in the use of their resources in a way compatible with strict control by the Social Security". And stay with this, "And that progress must be made in making better use of the resources and experience of the mutuals." Therefore, Mrs Garcia, Mr Hernández, things have changed since 2015. And the result of dialogue and consensus, there is such a broad agreement that he had only two votes against in the Congress of Deputies. And, again, none of those votes against were EH Bildu's or Podemos's. And that's the consensual scenario in which we socialists are moving in everything... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...remember, none of those votes against were EH Bildu's or Podemos's. And that is the consensual scenario in which we socialists are moving in everything that has to do with Social Security; therefore, all coherence. And now we are going down to the convention we are talking about, to the specific case, to the agreement between Osakidetza and Mutualia. And here too we're going to go in parts. I do not know whether it is going to give me time, because there are many things being talked about, but it is that the convention only says what it says, and the convention is only what it is, not what you want to interpret, because in the first place, it comes to say in this forum that a decision has been taken with this convention that comes to strengthen the areas of action of the mutuals. Listen, but they know that this is not the case, because the functions of the mutuals are laid down in article 80.2 of that law. There is no signed agreement, let alone this one. And I repeat, for the time being – stay with this – this article has not been changed because it has not been one of the recommendations adopted in the framework of the Toledo Pact agreement, ratified by Podemos with its affirmative vote and with the abstention of EH Bildu. And on that legal basis, which is what we have, this agreement proposes that by means of computer applications it can be made easier for the health personnel of the mutuals to have access to the clinical records of their patients in certain cases, and that in the same way, the staff of Osakidetza can know directly the risks, conditions, accidents and procedures that their patients have had in the workplace, and that in this way new information can also be incorporated into the records and medical records of the persons cared for. Yes, but eye, it can only be done when the express and informed consent of the worker exists. Moreover, one cannot come here wanting to ignore that already exist, that there were already protocols between Osakidetza, and for example, Mutualia, for the transfer of this type of information and incorporation in the clinical records and records. The problem is that it was done in paper format, not in digital format. That is what the convention proposes, nothing more. However, today we are being asked questions that this convention does not say, warn us that we can access the (?) clinical history. But the convention does not say that; it is more, it says the opposite. I will read it, he says: "Specifically it will be ensured that the authorized health care staff of the mutual can only access the medical history of Osakidetza, to those patients who have given consent to what is strictly necessary for the health care or consultation in the mutual. The same applies to the incorporation of new data. Therefore, in no case generality, and I repeat again, only in the case of express authorization of the worker. Because it is logical, because otherwise we would not have accepted it, also advance it. So if we stick to reality, the legal and the convention, the things that are being said in this rostrum today because they lack weight and reality. And it seems to me that it is a pity, Mrs Garcia, because you and we agree on many approaches in the field of safety and health at work; for example, we agree that it cannot be called absenteeism at work when someone lacks their work for a reason of health, and, moreover, because they are exercising – let's say – social rights that have cost us a lot to acquire and that some when they rule play with them. We share that prevention and health protection is a corporate obligation. We share it so much that we have put it in the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work. We also agree on the need for a comprehensive approach to occupational health. And in this area, Mrs Garcia, instruments like this can be very valid, because, for example, we cannot forget that there are other health professionals, who are responsible for ensuring the safety and health of workers, who are part of the prevention services. And this health care staff of the prevention services has to carry out the occupational clinical history of the working people. And they also have to evaluate people who have been on medical leave to know whether or not they can perform their duties without prejudice to their health. And as you know, Osakidetza also interacts with these preventive health services to communicate those pathologies that might be caused by their work, and it is necessary that they be able to know which jobs, tasks or with which chemicals or carcinogens, if any, people who have in their primary or specialized care services work. But, despite this interaction, and that today there is a significant flow of information between prevention services and Osakidetza, there is no data exchange channel beyond that established for the corresponding processing of occupational disease files. And we Socialists believe in the need to strengthen the integration of occupational health as another element of the person's health, so the involvement of the health branch in the prevention of occupational risks must have a significant weight and must be strengthened in comparison with the current situation. And since it seems that the exchange of health data between Osakidetza and other entities can be carried out with the relevant data protection guarantees, logically, it is also necessary to explore ways to achieve this exchange with the prevention services, to ensure the health of the working population. And for these reasons, the Socialists today, being consistent, will vote against their initiative. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The word is yours, Mr. Adarz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u32	Thank you. Thank you, chief of tables, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Today we have discussed the motion by Mrs. Garcia's interference with the head physician of the Medical Department. We didn't make any corrections because we didn't understand the motion. Txanda honetan saiatuk naiz azaltzen Garcia andreak ekartzen diskigun galimatiak. Mozioaren hiru elementu. The form of your motion, Mrs. Garcia. The procedural economy may be fine, but I believe that this very schematic formula, although certainly legitimate, conditions the debate. It gives us no room. There is one fact: no amendments have been registered. The staging, I recognize your impeccable good tone, Mrs Garcia, I recognize you and will make a sincere effort to keep me in that good tone also despite my differences with your postulates. The essential element, the content of his initiative, the framework he creates in his intervention in this rostrum, both in the inquiry and today in this debate on the motion, seems to me to be very wrong. In my opinion, its argumental structure is a misconception. You, first of all... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... as in this debate on the motion today, I find it very wrong. In my opinion, its argumental structure is a misconception. You, first of all, do not determine the subject of the motion's debate. You initially ask this Government about a specific partnership agreement. But in his speech he talks about other issues: the reform carried out in the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security through Law 35/2014; he also tells us that this Parliament in the year 2015 - as you said - adopted a resolution calling on the Spanish Government to repeal this rule. Yes, it's true, it's true. That 8 November 2015 I remember well, I intervened in that debate; it was approved to request the repeal of the Law at point one. But you omit, you omit, that in point three you refused to urge the Basque Government not to sign agreements or concerts with the mutual collaborators. What a coincidence. It omits part of the truth that also makes direct reference to these tools. Casual. In the end, I don't know what the counselor was talking about, or what we are discussing today: about the convention, about the law, about the entire normative area of 35/2014; or about the non-law proposal with an approved party and others rejected that you hide from us; or above all at the same time. It does not determine the subject of the debate, as it has also been recalled here today. Second question. He defends a thesis based on three elements, in my opinion dangerous. The thesis you defend is that this - whatever we are talking about today - increases the power of the mutuals; strengthening the power of the mutuals, it said in the interpellation, and it tells us today as well. And you also tell us that this is based on three strongly false ideas. Falsehoods, as I said today too. He calls them falsehoods. First falsehood, the need to exercise control over casualties by medical personnel in the public system, sowing mistrust over medical personnel in Osakidetza. The second falsehood is that the best management and effectiveness of public resources is done from the private sphere. Thirdly, the suspicion of fraud against working people. It doesn't explain to us where these falsehoods come from. Who sets them up? Obviously this government you are asking for, no. And he doesn't tell us, and he doesn't tell us who gets help from them either. If you do not clearly determine it, what I suppose is that the use of these falsehoods is yours. They're his argumental support. You rely on your falsehoods to support your thesis. Third question. He hides key elements of his argumentation, in his argumentation. I believe that the methodology used with the presentation of the proposed law discussed on 8 October 2015, where we are presented with what has been approved, but what has been rejected is not hidden, is being used again in relation to the collaboration agreement. I'm going to the text of the convention. Study it carefully. I determine elements that in your argument you hide or make disappear with a quick turn. There are several examples, several examples. Legal personalities that are part of the public sector, scope of the actions that were agreed upon... They have already been explained to a great extent. But, as an example, I'm going to focus on one that I consider axial. Consent. Quick turn. You go ahead and tell the Sailburu in the interpellation that she will tell us that she needs the workers' permission, but that's a chimera. He said it again today. What's a chimera? A chimera is what is proposed to imagination as possible or true, when it is neither possible nor true. Is this agreement a chimera? Clauses. First; object; point two: for the purposes of this agreement it is essential for the mutual to have the prior express written consent of the patient using Osakidetza on whom the consultation is intended, including health information. This in a sense, from Osakidetza to mutual. And, in another sense, from the mutual Osakidetza, point five of that first clause: "In addition, the possibility of consultation and/or extraction of the strict and essential information shall be covered by this agreement, provided that the prior express consent of the patient who uses the mutual is given in writing." You call chimera what I call precise and impeccable legal tool. And you can prove it. This, this agreement is true, it is possible and it is true. Fourth question, something disconcerting for me. He tells us to share the end with the Sailburu, but he intends to cancel this tool. What is the purpose of this agreement for the Department of Health? Improve the health care of working people. And this legal tool helps us to do so, considering health in the workplace as an integral part of health. That is, comprehensive health care from the Basque Public Health Service. Osakidetza and Mutualia are two entities that act on the care and promotion of people's health. One in the field of occupational health, the other in the field of comprehensive health, comprehensive care. And as I told you before when I was talking to you about consent, it's people who own the medical records. Stories don't belong to anyone else. Osakidetza and Mutualia make them with information essential for the knowledge and monitoring of health, and have responsibility for their proper custody. In short, we are faced with a tool that improves comprehensive health care, generates greater safety for workers, eliminates bureaucratic procedures, saves efforts for users and professionals. It avoids the duplicity of evidence, and, above all... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... bureaucrats, saves efforts to users and professionals. It avoids the duplicity of tests, and, above all, consults beforehand with each person affected, if you want the contents of your medical history to be consulted, shared and, if necessary, incorporated new information. I don't know what end he shares with the Sailburu. Since this powerful legal tool that clearly helps us move towards a comprehensive health care scenario, it is the one that wants the Sailburu to cancel. I don't understand. Well, no, it's not gonna cancel. That is why we will vote against your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u33	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing to responses turn. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u34	Thank you, ma'am. As the chief physician of health did today, the two main ideas are used to defend the treaty between Osacin and Mutulia, and Mr. Rico and Mr. Arianz have also mentioned them. First of all, the clinical history is that the workers are going to have to grant permission. And if so, I ask again: If history belongs to the working clinic, when the health of the workers is involved, why isn't it talked to the unions? Why haven't the unions been heard to recognize the opinion of the workers? As the government's work strategy goes on the other side. To sign this word, the Government has heard it only on one side: Mutual, Mutulia. So he's only heard the businessmen. And therefore this Covenant, besides its content, has also a defect in the manner in which it is determined. It would be good also to consult the physicians of Osar before we sign this agreement. I don't think that's done either. In other cases, as we have been to the −Goberna, the Basque Country, we believe that there is another way of doing things, another standard of government, where it must be the main exercise of instruction, not only to hear one side as it was done by this −, and to every side that can make decisions. Eta bigarren idea nagusia konbenio defendazeko izan da langileen osasuna modu integralean zaintzeko beharra, éta ikuspegi horretatik hobekuntza bat supposatzen duela konbenio horrek, Gobernuko partyduareen ustez. Eta osasunaren zaintza integrala bermatzeko, history kliniko kontsultzeko aukera hitzarmen honen aurretik bazegoen, baina berme handiekin bass prozesu zehatz batarako eta ikuskaritza medikuen bitartez. Orina, sinatutako konbenio honekin urrunago joan da Gobernua, éta ez dugu uste langileen osasuna hobetzea izan denik rarazoia. Because this agreement Osakidetza-Mutualia has little to do with the improvement of health and with the integral care of the health of the working people, as has been defended. And this is what the unions say, says Euskal Herria Bildu, says it medical professionals of Osakidetza, and it is also said by the law under which this agreement has been signed, which is the Law of Mutuals of the Government of the PP, approved in Madrid in 2014. The very law on which this agreement is based states that its fundamental objective is to combat unjustified absenteeism in the workplace in order to improve competitiveness in enterprises. This law speaks little or hardly anything about improving the health care of working people, it does not even speak of doing so on an integral basis. This law expressly attributes to the conventions the improvement to be effective instruments in improving the management and control of temporary disability. As Parliament said in 2015 it even adopted a resolution calling on the Spanish Government to repeal it. And since Mr. Rico missed the damn hemerotec I said in the interpellation, I'm bringing her here again today. The Socialist Group said: "We are opposed to mutual societies entering the public health field against the health of workers". He says that since 2015 many things have changed. Among other things, social dialogue is practiced – I don't know where from. This agreement has come to an end and has not been discussed with the trade unions. Look, Mr. Rico, regarding the mutuals - because what I have explained to me has told me that I have done totum revolutionutum, but I think that the totum revolutionutum has done it because I don't know in particular what EH Bildu spoke about or what the Toledo Pact has to do with it - but what has changed from 2015 to 2022 regarding the mutuals is that the Basque socialists in 2015 were in opposition, and in 2022 they are in government. It is the most obvious change to understand that what then seemed like an attack on public health, is today applauded and defended as a great improvement in the health of workers. Therefore, for all that, I repeat that the health of workers is the most important thing. The agreement between Oslo and Mutual must be cancelled. And finally, asking the unions to explain to the workers the agreement between Osax and Mutuli is now supposed to be in the presence of the absolute majority of this government, which is the way we have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Garrido, out of there, is your word. Popular group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u36	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Well, tell EH Bildu's spokesman that I obviously believe that the arguments of the People's Party-Citizens - in the group I represent - for which we are going to vote against on his initiative have been made clear to him. Our model is certainly not your model. We advocate that we be able to share all the information if that ultimately, as I said in my first speech, is for the benefit of the citizens, in this case Basque citizenship, which is the case. Therefore, we see no ghost, no problem and we will vote against it. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u37	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u38	Thank you. I believe that the positions are clear, but I do believe that we must respond to Mr Rico of the Socialist Party. Firstly, because it refers to social dialogue and understanding and agreement on these issues when we are discussing an agreement signed by Osakidetza, by the Basque Government, with Mutualia without any kind of dialogue, let alone agreement with the trade unions in this country. With none. And they have all protested against this agreement. And many of them are launching campaigns among workers warning them of the risks that this agreement may pose. Therefore, the argument of dialogue cannot, of course, be used to defend agreement with that partnership agreement. It's legitimate, if you want you can defend it. But I'm not lying to me about the Toledo Pact either. Indeed, we voted in favour of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, and you have read one of them concerning mutuals, which I believe you have read is exactly... if I find it... this, recommendation 9. Well, I think you have read it: "It is necessary to complete the process of modernisation and transparency in the operation of mutual societies, as well as to provide them with a certain flexibility in the use of their resources, compatible with strict control by Social Security." You interpret that this is compatible with that partnership agreement. We interpret that no, that it is not compatible with that partnership agreement that they have signed. What would be compatible with greater control of mutual societies has to do with the constant demands of trade unions for many years, on the representation of trade unions, for example in mutual societies, on the lack of transparency, on the lack of controls by public administrations or on insufficient controls over the work of mutual societies. And, of course, this partnership agreement does not go that way. This collaboration agreement will only be used by the mutuals, in this case by Mutualia, in the same format as they operate: with economic interests when it comes to the treatment of the health of workers. And it responds, as I said before, to that constant pressure from Confebask in Euskadi with what they call absenteeism at work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u39	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I'll take my cell phone out in case you want me to read the recommendations. Of course, it says to me "no, it's that you only read one part"; no, it's that there's only one point where you talk, and I've read it whole to you so you don't cheat, I've read it whole. Not like others do here who read a fragment, but they don't read the important thing. And the Socialists have been very clear since 2015 - and you can see in the sessional diary of the non-law proposal that my colleague Gloria Sánchez brought here - that what we are demanding was that in this area it was political agreement and social dialogue; and I have told you. In coherence, this is transformed into our 2019 election program. Political agreement, Toledo Pact. What does the Toledo Pact have to do with the political agreement? Well, if I have to explain, we'll just start, we'll just start. And social dialogue, it tells me in the intervention of the unions in all this. Or doesn't exist. Or, of course, of course, the problem is when you come here to have to explain to certain political parties that usually choose to stay in the essence. Because I can have my position, I can have my position on mutuals, and whenever you want you and I talk about it. But we argued that it was necessary to deal with this type of thing from the point of view of seeking agreement. And when you come to agreements, there are people who give vertigo for not having achieved the maximum, and instead of leaving those hairs on the triggers we talk about many times, they want to keep the banner. He passed the labor reform to EH Bildu, he passed the labor reform; and now every time the unemployment data come out and the number of hired people who are fixed hide under the stones and wonder why they voted against. Of course, and it has happened to you and some unions who were talking about no, autonomous agreements - which no one put at risk, by the way, no one put at risk - and we have not heard from them again, by the way. What we do know is that there are monthly data on the improvement of unemployment, there are monthly data on the improvement of the recruitment of workers from this country, and we know that it was not thanks to EH Bildu; and not only not thanks to EH Bildu, not thanks to other parties. We do know that it is thanks to the Socialist Party. That is why it is so important, Mrs Garcia, that you said, the difference is that it governs the Socialist Party? Man, whether he governs the Socialist Party or the People's Party has quite a few differences, quite a few differences. And even if you want to stage a disagreement today, I'm going to move a reflection. It clings to things seven years ago - as I said - skewedly, but I told you that several things have happened in the economy, in society, in risk prevention, in health prevention, and also the pandemic, which has changed the way of dealing with safety at work; and also the change in the political cycle in Spain, which you are part of and proud of, and also the new strategy presented in this House by Vice-Lehendakari. And a profound transformation that we're immersed in, and that doesn't doubt that it's going to affect us all. It's going to affect labor relations, it's going to affect political parties, it's going to affect every person. And the Socialists see deep currents and listen to everyone. An important novelty has been the social dialogue table, which will soon be three years old. This photo opens the doors to those who want to participate in public employment policies. And we appreciate the efforts of those who have decided to commit themselves to it; and the same in the Osalan General Council. And we see that there are those who value the possibility of joining, and I hope so, because the better. And don't forget that... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... General Council of Osalan. And we see that there are those who value the possibility of joining, and I hope so, because the better. And don't forget that the health of working people is the first of the keys, which – also with EH Bildu – the Department that runs Idoia Mendia has considered that it should mark quality employment. I believe that instead of bringing questions here to try to go to a maximum approach, when I say again, where exactly the need for or not to reform that law - which is in the Toledo Pact - has been discussed, EH Bildu has abstained from the conclusions and Podemos has voted in favour of those conclusions - which I have read to him -. That you don't like it, but, of course, you will have to talk to your comrades from Podemos de España, because here it is very easy to come and say that everything the Spanish Government does when it goes well, this is wonderful, but when I don't like it very much, it is that I have even freedom, not to criticise the socialist part of the government anymore, but that I even take off from what my comrades from Podemos in this case have voted for. Well, ask for explanations from the parliamentary group of Podemos in the Spanish Congress, which have also learned something that would not be wrong to be learned here, and it is that, sometimes, reaching agreements is more important than the maxims. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u42	Thanks again. Mr Hernandez, I know that you are doing very well with the follow-up you make of EH Bildu, but today seems a little excessive to me this aiming at... in this gallimatía that Mrs Garcia has proposed to us. If Mrs Garcia at some point throws at the conclusion of the agreement, in fact, she must ask the Sailburu. But if Mrs. Garcia, as she has sometimes done, pulls more by lift - that is, pulls into the realm of what is the normative environment of the 35/2014 - she would have to ask you. And that's what you're doing: don't ask yourself, throw by lift to a large extent. I'd have to ask you. You have a lot of responsibility for that, but you always point to what you said before, to follow. Mrs. Garcia, I know I've been very critical of your radical formal initiative. I have reproached you for not determining the subject of the debate. I have also reproached you for not knowing what you want to raise as an element of controversy. And he escapes... No, no. He escapes in that totum revolutum that was spoken of in that general cause; when he wants to dress him with concrete interpellation on a convention, he escapes. I think I've made it clear that you're defending a wrong thesis based on false elements. I believe I have made it clear that you conceal key elements in your argument. Whenever you want, we can comment on them in detail. At this point, I could tell you – as Morris West wrote – that all of this is half true, which is always more than half false. Despite all this, what surprises me most about his initiative and argumentation is that he says he shares the goal of pursuing comprehensive health care and is unable to see that we are faced with a powerful legal tool that improves this comprehensive health care. A powerful legal tool that creates greater security for workers, which eliminates bureaucratic procedures, which saves user and professional efforts. A powerful legal tool that avoids duplicity of evidence and that, above all, above all, impeccably guarantees the rights of workers. In short, an agreement that helps us move towards a comprehensive health care scenario. I will only ask you one favor: please, Mrs Garcia, read the agreement carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u43	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. After discussion, we'll put the original text of Mrs Garcia Ortega's motion to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 26; opponents, 46; abstains, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u44	So it's not accepted. Third point in theme list: "These other proposals of the Law shall be discussed together, and once for all shall be decided: The other proposal of Euscal Populara-Ciudadan's parlamentary team, the transition of all the Cuban population to a democracy capable of choosing the future with freedom. And two, the other proposition made by Mistto-Vlamentary Group, concerning the protection of the people of Cuba in their freedom and democracy." Mr. Barrio, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u45	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And I would also like to greet from here the representatives of the Cuban community in Euskadi who are accompanying us today in this debate and in this plenary. Over the last few months, we have agreed in this Parliament, in its committees, in plenary, on many very harsh human realities. We have supported and supported – as it could not otherwise be – the Ukrainian people... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Very hard. We have supported and supported – as it could not otherwise be – the Ukrainian people, (with everything?) His suffering for the unjustifiable invasion he suffers. We have also supported Afghan women for their terrible situation of violation of all rights and their terrible submission. We have talked about Guatemala, or El Salvador, and the complicated situation of these countries' rights as well. We have also remembered the Saharans, victims of unjust occupation and terrible exile. And today it is also up to us to remember the Cuban people. From its situation of submission to a dictatorial regime: the longest dictatorship in Latin America. Also the situation of exile. We have to say that since 1959 the Cuban people have been subjected to a single-party military regime. And it may seem that international society has become accustomed to it, to that status quo, right?, but the lack of freedom, the lack of democracy still wastes the lives of the Cuban people, and above all the lives of their dissidents. The threat to life, to the freedom of opponents, and of people protesting in the streets. Those who protested in July 2021 in the streets and squares of Cuba have suffered and are suffering a calvary of repression, arrests, unjust imprisonment, unfair trials. Against this, therefore, we too want to speak in this Parliament, as other institutions such as the European Parliament have done in a clear way. We have to say, as we justified in the initiative, that at this time there have been a number of protests - last year - on the streets: they began in San Antonio de Baños, in Palma Soriano, in others..., and spread throughout the Cuban nation, in the context of the poor management as well... something that is also added to the submission to the dictatorial regime... a poor management of the health crisis accentuated the social political unrest of the island. And, well, demonstrations, in this case spontaneous, peaceful in those places, so, they were brutally repressed, with the consequences that are still being seen. It is difficult to find a collection of resolutions and communications as forceful and demanding as those that have occurred in the European institutions in relation to the situation in Cuba. And, specifically, in the European Parliament, or through the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy and Security, Mr Borrell, such as those that have been carried out on Cuba in connection with the demonstrations, the protests of 2021 and their consequences, which, as I said, have been arbitrary arrests, unfair trials, and above all this feeling of more fear among the population to channel or formalise legitimate protests; this has been absolutely constrained. We have to refer to what has also been that body of action that we put forward in the compromise amendment in relation to the resolutions of the European Parliament. And we have to remember the European Parliament's resolution, that this is a pre-emptive one. − to the protest and protest situation of 10 June 2021 on human rights and its political situation in Cuba; that is, it was already being analysed. But from there we have had the resolution of the European Parliament of 16 September 2021, on government repression of the protests of Cuban citizens, or the resolution of the European Parliament of 17 December 2021, on the situation of certain persons imprisoned and repressed for having participated. And, of course, some of those people to whom this resolution was still referred with a pending sentence, as we have seen these days in the media: people of culture, people of art, people of social movements, who have been repressed and who have been tried in unfair trials, now pending sentences, and imprisoned. And we have to remember as a recent matter the latest statement by the High Representative of the European Union of 30 March, recently 30 March 2022, on trials and sentences relating to demonstrations of 11 and 12 July 2021, and the brutal repression against them. Furthermore, a statement was made by the High Representative on behalf of the European Union. That is why we are presenting at the moment that non-law proposal, which has its force at the moment, since the effects and consequences of those legitimate, peaceful protests continue to occur today, as a result of this lack of freedom that Cuba is experiencing. We have tabled, we have agreed with the groups supporting the Government, with the Basque Nationalist Group, with the Socialist Group, a compromise amendment, I thank Mr Prieto, Mr Aguirre for his efforts to agree, and I will refer to it at a moment. But I do want to remember what those statements were that the majority of the European Union has adopted. But what I want to remember is some of the references made by those resolutions of the European Parliament or the High Representative. In particular, on 10 June, just before these demonstrations, the European Parliament again agreed on Cuba and strongly condemned the existence of political prisoners, persistent and permanent political persecution, acts of harassment, arbitrary arrests of dissidents in Cuba. It also condemns the ongoing attacks on artists. He was talking about the San Isidro movement... peaceful dissidents, independent journalists, human rights defenders... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... attacks currently being recorded against artists. He spoke of the San Isidro movement... peaceful dissidents, independent journalists, human rights defenders, members of the political opposition, and they called for, called on the European Parliament to cease these actions immediately, and urged the Cuban authorities to release all political prisoners, persons detained in an arbitrary manner, exclusively for exercising freedom of expression or freedom of assembly or freedom of demonstration. That's the situation, that was the situation, of course, on the 10th of (?) July, which was aggravated by the peaceful protests that were generated on 10 and 11 July, also on the island. And it also speaks, of course, of the unfortunate judicial situation in relation to trials of persons arrested, imprisoned and accused. And without going any further, on 16 September, precisely again, the European Parliament echoed other statements on human rights, and spoke of the need to consider the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights who had condemned, the United Nations commission and the High Commissioner for Human Rights, had condemned the repression of the Cuban State and the use of force in response to peaceful protests, and had called for the speedy release of all detainees, and had urged the Cuban Government to address the underlying social issues through dialogue. This resolution of the European Parliament of 16 September on government repression of citizens' protests in Cuba is, of course, an example of data, of characteristics, of circumstances, of what were those days and what was the repression, the reaction of the dictatorial regime in relation to those protests. And in that regard, that resolution was also forceful at the time of the conviction, and condemned in the strongest terms the violence and extreme repression against demonstrators, human rights defenders, independent journalists, artists, dissidents, political leaders of the opposition by the Cuban Government following the protests of 11 July 2021. And I was sorry, I was sorry for the loss of human lives, and I felt sorry for the families. It also regretted that the Cuban authorities had taken advantage of the wave of arrests following the demonstrations of 11 July 2021 to criminalize legitimate and peaceful demands for democracy by citizens. These protests were full of social reaction, of protests against the management of the covid, but they were also full of demand, of demand for freedom, of demand for democracy, and in this regard, because the Cuban authorities were criminalizing legitimate and peaceful demands for democracy, trying to impose such control, re-establishing the culture of fear within the population, and above all, silence, silence some members of the opposition of greater charism in that country. That is the situation, and that is the situation in Cuba today. It was clear that those resolutions also referred to the working groups on arbitrary detention of the United Nations, which had a special section for the deprivation of liberty in Cuba, and denounced the lack of respect for human rights and freedoms enshrined in the universal human rights conventions by the Cuban authorities. It is clear the importance, the relevance of this European Parliament resolution, and without going any further, followed the resolutions of the European Parliament, and in December there was another very important European Parliament resolution in relation to the situation in particular. He spoke of a number of people in that case: José Daniel Ferrer, Lady of Blanco Aymara Nieto, Michael Castillo, Luis Robles, Félix Navarro, Luis Manuel Otero, Pastor Lorenzo Rosales Fajardo, Andy Dunier García, or Yunior García Aguilera, and he was specifically concerned about this situation. Some of them, like Otero, like... today, Castillo, are now awaiting a sentence for having gone to demonstrations, for exercising a right to peaceful protest at that time, and for being, and being part of the culture of artistic platforms in relation to..., and political activism in relation to the demand for freedoms and democracy in this country. And this one too... And this resolution of the European Parliament condemned in the strongest terms the systematic abuses again against demonstrators, political dissidents, religious leaders, human rights defenders, independent artists and others that include arbitrary arrests and abusive restrictions on movements, communications, arrests, house surveillance, as well as torture and ill-treatment perpetrated by the Cuban Government. In other words, the steps are increasing in relation to the violation of human rights. And finally, we have what is the recent statement of 30 March 2022 by the High Representative on behalf of the European Union on the trials, on the sentences relating to the demonstrations of 11 and 12 July 2021, and specifically that the European Union is following with great concern the sentences handed down in Cuba in relation to the events of 11 and 12 July. Spontaneous demonstrations throughout the country were a reflection of the legitimate demands of the population, but were received with repression, with more than 1,400 persons arrested and 790 accused after a trial of several weeks, several harsh sentences, on 16 March 2022 the Supreme People's Court of Cuba issued 128 sentences with sentences of up to 30 years'imprisonment for protests, 30 years'imprisonment, including, in addition, those under the age of 18 at the time of their arrest. Absolutely, the disproportion of the situation, of the penalties, of the judicial system mixed with the repressive system, and that is what the high representative of the European Union, the European Union, demonstrates, because he speaks on his behalf: "The right to dissent and to manifest should be guaranteed and protected in Cuba", and it is quite the opposite, it is absolutely repressed. That is why, and in relation to this situation, we have reached an agreement that calls on the Cuban Government to scrupulously respect human rights. He joined the call of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights for the Government of Cuba to fulfil its obligations to human rights. Here he also referred, in particular, to the right to protest, which is constantly repressed, and we also referred to the fact that... We were joining the... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...protest, that it is repressed constantly. And we also meant that... We were in addition to the resolutions of the European Parliament which I recalled on 10 June 2021, 16 September and 16 December 2021 on the situation in Cuba. The transaction urges the Cuban authorities to release all political prisoners and persons detained for exercising their rights of assembly and freedom of expression. It demands that, in accordance with the dialogue initiated by the European Union, the Cuban Government take decisive steps towards democratic and economic openness and make the necessary reforms to ensure that citizens enjoy their rights and freedoms as soon as possible. It is quite clear that this is still a voluntarism. But, to say the least, it is a democratic voluntarism, it is a necessity that Cubans have. And that, of course, it does not seem that the Government is for the work. But...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u46	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u47	I'm done, Madam President. We are also talking about the lifting of the embargo, which we see as an obstacle to that process. And we continue to support the Basque Government in continuing to collaborate and dialogue with and cooperate with the Cuban population. With the Cuban population, but not with the regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missa, representative of the Vox team, Martíne, ma'am, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u49	Good morning to you all again. The Cuban regime is a dictatorship. This seems an obvious thing to say loud and clear. And it has to be said because the left is progressing in Spain has tried to build around the Castro regime a romantic image, presenting Fidel Castro and his successors as revolutionary leaders. They have tried to create an idyllic image of what was baptized as a revolutionary movement, presenting it as a process of national liberation from the yoke of the previous regime. An attempt has been made to varnish with an aura of romanticism the whole movement that overthrew the previous regime by means of weapons, and subsequently, far from freeing the Cuban people, subject it to the yoke of authoritarianism and the lack of freedom for more than 60 years. But, like all movements of this nature, its only objective was to assault power to perpetuate itself over the years through a dictatorial model. One must therefore repeat one and a thousand times, in order to combat the propaganda of the left, that Cuba is a dictatorship and that it has been subjecting its people to all kinds of human rights violations for decades. The first victory is not to take a step back in the relationship to the narrative that the left wants to impose around the situation of the Cuban people. This is the main battle: to combat the propaganda of the Cuban regime, internalized and amplified by the rest of the world through its international propaganda. Among them, the Spanish left. Left that does a double moral exercise when they denounce the return of irregular immigrants in Spain, but instead defends a regime like the Cuban that deports immigration from Haiti day after day. Like all dictatorships, the Castro regime has remained in power thanks to a hard-handed policy of persecution of fundamental rights and freedoms. The use of violence and repression has been their main weapons to cling to power. We must also combat the romantic image that has been built with regard to the figure of Fidel Castro, presenting him as a sort of liberator of the Cuban people. Fidel Castro was a dictator. And his successors continue their policies of violent persecution towards any kind of dissent. For Cuban leaders, dissent is synonymous with a threat, and therefore they fight it using, when necessary, the most violent and expedient methods. In Cuba, both individual and collective fundamental rights are restricted. Freedom of expression, assembly, the right to private property or political participation simply do not exist. In Cuba, fundamental rights, which represent the foundation of any advanced democracy, are violated and curtailed by a regime that is of little concern to its people and indeed to the prebends of power. A regime that, like all communist dictatorships, causes a situation of poverty towards its people, which contrasts with the enrichment of its elites. Fidel Castro's fortune amounted to 900 million euros. Fortuna, according to the well-known magazine Forbes, even superior to that of the Queen of England. But Fidel's case is the greatest example of a political system based on structural corruption to favour all adherents to the regime. An elite that swims in abundance and lives in extreme wealth thanks to the control of all national resources. We are talking about disproportionate enrichments by a ruling class that nothing in opulence and ostentation. This display contrasts with the poverty in which the Cuban population is buried. Another of the main arguments used by communist propaganda has been to present Cuba as a country where its population enjoyed good living conditions. Nothing further from reality. The Cuban regime during its more than 60 years of existence has led its people to great impoverishment. In the face of Fidel Castro's 900 million fortunes or his brother Raúl's 500, the average salary of the Cuban population is approximately 30 euros. Poor wages, combined with a dearth of life that cannot be absorbed by the population of Cuba. Let us give examples that will, for example, help us to appreciate and dismantle the propaganda exercise of the Cuban regime and the left of Spain. A coca tail in Cuba costs 2.20 euros, similar to the price you have here in the Basque Country. One kilo of beef, 11 euros. Or dinner in a restaurant, 35 euros. That is, one kilo of beef accounts for 36% of the wage. And, of course, dinner in a restaurant has a higher price than the average salary of a Cuban. In short, the classic in communist regimes: impoverished population, suffering economic hardship, and multimillionaire political elites. Every communist regime has the same pattern of behavior. Restrictions on rights and freedoms are its basic pillar. And a key element within this goal is the control of propaganda. Disinformation campaigns are fundamental to manipulating public opinion. And absolute control over the media is essential for that purpose. It is well known that in Cuba... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to manipulate public opinion and absolute control over the media is essential for this purpose. It is well known that freedom of expression does not exist in Cuba. The media are under the strict control of the Government and at the service of its propaganda and disinformation strategy, but as the way in which citizens transmit and receive information has evolved with the arrival of the Internet and social networks, the Cuban Government has adapted its repressive strategy to this new scenario. Following the incidents that took place in July 2021, the Cuban Government, aware that social networks had become a field of freedom of expression that was difficult to control, introduced a series of legislative changes, in order to block any criticism and, even more so, to curtail the right to freedom of expression. They made legislative changes, disguised as "by an ethical and good internet for the population", in which they established as a criminal offence any call for protest or criticism of the Government. They imposed greater restrictions on the use of the Internet and social networks through new rules that penalize what the dictatorial regime considers to be false news, offensive messages and defamation with impact on the country's prestige. In other words, an authentic virtual gag law, which is the only thing that seeks to establish a state of absolute information censorship, adapting the repressive strategy to the times of the digital age. Freedom of expression is one of the main pillars on which a democratic society must be founded. To seek the free right to transmit and receive information is a frontal attack on the fundamental rights of democracy. Cuba has also given a twist in its repressive policy; to the physical repression that has been practiced against dissent, to the door-to-door repression that has been exercised by the Castro authorities, we must add the virtual persecution that the Cuban regime is carrying out to anyone suspected of questioning its power. We all remember the protests that took place in Cuba last year. Following these historic protests, the Cuban regime imprisoned hundreds of people who had participated in them; the authorities intensified their machinery to suppress freedom of expression and assembly, with physical surveillance measures by human rights activists, artists and journalists, who were also subjected to house arrest, arbitrary detention and, in many cases, ill-treatment. Thousands of people who took the streets to protest peacefully against the precarious economic situation, the shortage of medicines or the continued restrictions on freedom of expression were brutally suppressed. Most of the detainees were accused of false crimes used to silence dissent. After the protest, many of the people released were formally arrested at home pending trial. The Cuban authorities also subjected activists and journalists to physical surveillance, permanently placing the political police in front of their homes and under threat of detention. These political abuses have had their colophony with the sentences of those arrested and prosecuted. And the prosecution is also pure euphemism, because in Cuba the judicial guarantees that must protect any defendant do not exist. The detainees were already convicted in advance. Cuba was not a State governed by law and legal guarantees shone by its absence. In Cuba there is no presumption of innocence, not even a presumption of guilt. In Cuba the word presumption does not apply and the person arrested is already guilty, the trials are a mere pantomime carried out with nocturnalness and without any guarantee for the defendants. The sentences of Cubans arrested and tried have been known, based on fictitious evidence, non-existent crimes built by the Government and with convictions ranging from 10 to 30 years. Among those convicted, there is even a minor. All a waste of judicial abuses and procedural irregularities that only confirm what has been happening for 60 years in Cuba: a systematic violation of human rights, a violent repression exercised by a dictatorial regime and the absence of minimum democratic guarantees for the free exercise of the right of citizenship. Cuba is a brotherly people. Historically, Spain has expressed its commitment to the democratic will of the Cuban people. We cannot abandon the Cuban people to the fate of a group of satraps and tyrants whose only concern is to remain in power at the cost of the indefinite suffering of their people. The international community has a debt to the Cuban people, and we understand that it is time to start paying it off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u50	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseowner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. A year later, we're here to act, help, or protect the purpose of this law. This is a debate for you, because you don't care for the people of Cuba or that part of the people you think you want to represent. When you have no points, this is the debate you bring, as I said, a year late. And in this case, EAJ and PSE have introduced us to the middle course we've met today. And I only want to ask the representatives of the groups that support the government: Whether you think it's more convenient for the people of Cuba to bring this half-way here today, in the sample, or June of the debat made without any constructive purpose, we agreed, discussed, and voted the course of this middle course. Because we were speaking clearly in our correction, we also went on in that sense that the − the parliamentian, on the one hand, was asking the government of Cuba, as we said, for a debate about these paciphic protests which we spoke about, which we were speaking about, which today has no meaning. And on the second day of June 18th, − Bai, from which we spoke a year ago, about the economic lock that the Republic of Cuba suffered, I repeat, in full majority... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... On the 18th of June, it has been a year since that time about the financial lock that the Republic of Cuba suffered, I repeat, in full majority, that we were confirmed by what we said in the middle we accepted. And in it we mentioned, among others, the commercial embarese, the longest known in the modern − history, and that the organization of the United Nations has been rejected 23 times by the fact that we saw the serious consequences of the economy of− Cuba, and that we were also obliged to establish mechanism in front of them, and to disapprove of this embar. But besides that, we also demanded diplomatic relations with Cuba to begin again. Or, in other words, we requested that the five political conversations which have been applied to the European Union from the 1st November 1st of 2017. And that middle term you brought us has little of the conversation, for it is not like the other, nor is it in the material that we agreed to do so in order to get together. And, as we said, because in a debate where it's an atheist, it turns into a muddle that's made without any constructive purpose. However, there is between these several points which you have brought in, a point which we believe is indispensable, the end, which speaks of conversation, protection, and cooperation. And we'd ask for the chance to vote on points because we'd like to give that point a vote for our team. And besides, as you're proposing to do to the government, or to do to the teams, we propose to do it. Let us maintain the direction of conversation, agreement, and intermediate agreement, because we believe that those who are to be listened to in concert are more favorable to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u53	President, ladies and gentlemen. Cuban citizenship has long been in the hands of adversity and adversity; and almost always in recent history for the action of the human being. 70 years ago the dictator Batista was the protagonist with the American collaboration to subject the island to the whims of powerful and mafias, to the looting and destruction of the dignity of Cubans and Cubans. Then there was a liberating revolution, as imperfect as it was necessary, which was able to restore some of the lost dignity, but which has not been able to become democracy; which has gone from hope and openness to the violation of human rights. Meanwhile, various presidents of the United States, except Obama and in some ways in recent days Joe Biden, for the time being, timidly in the name of human rights, have contributed tirelessly to the economic and humanitarian blockade of the Cuban population, limiting and undermining those human rights. Leading the ranking - and to much advantage of others - Donald Trump with his 243 additional blocking measures to those that already existed, during his term he implemented them and today they continue for the most part. Despite everything and all of Cuba has managed to share global leadership in literacy, and it has international prestige in its health and education, among other achievements. Cuba, to continue in adversity and adversity, counts, moreover, in the world - and this includes Euskadi and Spain - with fascists once again, who while embracing Orban and Trump claim freedom and democracy there; inviting to remember that saying of whether you are a dyed donkey, when it rains you are lost. It is very contradictory and makes very little sense to denounce the lack of freedom in Cuba and to prohibit the freedom to invest, export and import, to exchange research and science, to facilitate humanitarian means. As we know, international relations are complex, contradictory and, on too many occasions, repugnant for inhumane and criminal. Barack Obama wanted to normalize relations between the United States and Cuba. Cuba withdrew from the list of sponsors of terrorism. The opening of diplomatic relations began. He bet on the establishment of a bilateral commission, for the rapprochement in cooperation in matters such as science, administration, management of marine protected areas, environment, disaster risk reduction, prevention and response to oil spills, migration, combating drug trafficking, granting of general travel licences, authorization to sell and exports of goods and services. There were many more, and the question is, would this policy not have helped infinitely more to change, to democratize Cuba, to its full freedom to choose its representatives, to go out and enter the island, to access communication, to gain rights? What changed so that all this that was possible was then impossible? That the nefarious Donald Trump arrived, and not only did normalization of relations stop, led them to a major setback, coming to include Cuba again in the list of countries supposedly sponsors of terrorism two weeks before Biden's inauguration. And it has also happened that Joe Biden, after confused supporters in election campaign and in the year and a half of his mandate on what his policy with regard to Cuba would be, although he has on several occasions provided humanitarian aid, continues in the policy of low profile, although in these days he has moved... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... its policy towards Cuba, although it has on several occasions provided humanitarian aid, remains in the policy of low profile, although in these days it has moved a record and this opens a door to hope in the right direction so that the economic and social development of Cuba can walk at a pace with that of freedoms. Biden renews part of Trump's policy, after a meeting in April between American and Cuban representatives to address migration issues. After the meeting something begins to change in American politics. A policy that must advance, facilitating the entry and exit of Cubans from the island, increasing consular services, visa processing, the relationship of Americans and Cubans in research, the lifting of limits for some economic transactions, Internet access, electronic payments, access to microfinance or training. In the presidential history of the United States is the policy of ripe fruit or patient hope. A policy that moves in the controversy between the economic and social empowerment of Cubans so that, from cooperation, help the transition, and enters, from the blockade, further aggravate their life and expect a social explosion that will bring down the government. History teaches us that invasions and interferences and the like always end badly. Nor does it seem advisable in the current geopolitical dispute that the United States lose influence on the American continent over Russia and China. The peaceful demonstrations in Palma Soriano and San Antonio de los Baños, which spread to other localities and have been the biggest protests in recent years, of course they deserve respect and guarantees. And they deserve the Cuban authorities to listen to their claims and give them political space. And therefore, we condemn the violent repression that has taken place, arbitrary arrests and any violation of human rights, as well as demand the freedom of demonstrators and those who are considered political prisoners. Socialists support that Cuban citizens decide their future in freedom, without internal repression and without external interference. And, in order to move in that direction, it is essential to lift the economic blockade that has impeded the development of the country, as demanded by the European Union and as demanded by the United Nations for more than 30 years. To defend human rights in Cuba is to do so within Cuba, but also outside. Cuba is not at war with anyone, and it is subject to a blockade considered an act of war, recognized as an international crime of genocide in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, so adopted at the United Nations since 1948. I block that the Americans call embargo to appear not to violate the fundamental principles of international law. Blockage or embargo that, apart from its name, has the same doses of cruelty applied over 60 years to more than 11 million people, who are denied access to sanitary materials, fuel, food and many more products and services that are part of their basic needs and the right to economic and social progress. 60 years of blockade that disables those who practice it to teach human rights lessons. 60 years of blocking for no political outcome favorable to those who practice it, which makes them powerful losers. The 2016 Agreement on Political Dialogue and Cooperation between the European Union and Cuba is the policy to be followed: the only policy with a future for all. A policy in which Cuba must respect and consolidate the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights, and in which it is also committed to cooperation in social and economic development, the environment, trade or sustainable development among other matters. The U.S. has made a slight move in the contents of the blockade, and a move more firmly in the political attitude to restore diplomatic relations and reduce tension. The Summit of the Americas is being held in Los Angeles these days. A summit that ends tomorrow, and meets around a motto that says, "Building a sustainable, resilient and equitable future." Not all American countries, including Cuba, are invited to the summit, which has produced tensions and criticism from others who are invited, such as Argentina or Mexico. Without dialogue, without cooperation, without bridges that cross the opportunities are lost and delayed to achieve more freedom, more democracy, more respect for human rights and more access to economic and social well-being to which all Cubans are also entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u54	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u55	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. As we all know, Cuba has long lived difficult times. In July 2021 this initiation was introduced, and I really don't know why we're discussing it today and not October or November. Well, last summer, Cuba lived the biggest protests and protests in the past decades. The people of Cuba went out into the streets to protest against the lack of food and the lack of vaccine against the covida. And at first, there were protests about the light cuts, the blackouts, the absence of food and the lack of vaccines against the covid. True, it is true that thousands of protesters turned to the streets of Havana and other cities in Cuba on July 11. And surely they were the biggest demonstrations since August 1994, in the middle of the Special Period, where people also went out to the streets to claim, basically, the same: more food, more medicine and less light cuts. The Cuban economy has been bleeding for years. And it is clear that the economic crisis on the island has been aggravated by the latest pandemic. But, quickly, people went from complaining about restrictions to demanding freedom, democracy and political changes on the island. To suppress these peaceful demonstrations, we saw how the Ministry of the Interior... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and political changes on the island. In order to suppress these peaceful demonstrations, we saw how the Ministry of the Interior ordered the black berets to carry against the demonstrators in a brutal and totally disproportionate manner. The images also showed us to military and civilian agents not only hit hard, but also shoot at the population, at the protesters. The people of Cuba have a right to live better, and a right to live in freedom for a long time. The people of Cuba have suffered a lot from the effect of American abduction. That's why we've been asking him to pick up Cuba's hostage for a long time. Años que el PNV peri levantamientto del embaro. But we also want to remind Cuba that he has to respect international rights, especially in the field of human rights. Six years ago, as has been said, the European Union and Cuba have signed an agreement for political interview and cooperation. And we think that was good enough to encourage the political opening in Cuba. The evolution that was up to this year has been very slow, it has been small, but it ended last July. This is why it is intolerable that the repression was given in the July demonstrations, because the violent attack which has been carried on has been a great advance in the opening of democracy. And there are certainly huge differences between our respective political, economic, social and human rights models between the European Union and Cuba, between Euskadi and Cuba, but it is also true that we have always advocated dialogue and cooperation between the parties, because we believe that this is the most effective way to promote the evolution of a situation blocked for decades, and that precisely the dialogue promoted by the European Union will enhance change. But it is also true that the Cuban authorities must move, cooperate and take enormous steps to open up their economy, open up the regime and allow for a genuine democracy based on respect for all human rights. Last November, with the convening of new demonstrations that were later banned by the Cuban regime, the European Union showed its unequivocal support, citing the right of Cuban citizens to demonstrate peacefully and demand changes on the island. It called on the Government of Havana for the freedom of detainees and also for democratic changes and openness. But in February of this year we have learned that those who participated in the demonstrations of July 2021 have been sentenced to up to 30 years in prison, as has been said here, for sedition offences. And to me that doesn't sound like openness or change, it sounds like Marchena and the Supreme Court. We, like the European Union, call on Havana to listen to the demands of its people, and to commit itself to an inclusive dialogue to address the legitimate aspirations for change called for by the people. The relationship between Cuba and Basques is ancient, and we have always been Solsalis with the state of Cuba. and therefore, in conclusion, we demand that the Government of Cuba, amongst other things, should give a democratic and decisive step, and make necessary reforms, so that the people may enjoy all rights and liberties as soon as possible. We're asking for immediate freedom of all political prisoners, and get the United States the kidnapping. In the end, we're asking the Red Beetle to continue with the policy for Cuba's cooperation. That probably will help the change. So we vote for the media that we negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u56	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Crossing the line of the right-hand team together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u57	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. First, in this discussion of Cuba, or at least as proposed by the party, a couple of comments in this general cause. On the one hand, Popular Party-Ciudadus was registered on the 13th of July the year before, and the Mists in October. That's a little to place how much importance they give if they're so anxious about the situation in Cuba. "Un compromiso en diverside con el pueblo cubano, dirmos en este momento." In addition, it has given rise to and housed a totally hate speech, and a totally hate initiative of the neo-fascist international represented in this Parliament by the Joint Group, and in addition, with property claims pending since 1959 in its party with regard to Cuba. Respectus a la inliciativa del Partado Popular-Ciudados. We think that to talk about Cuba and to put things in context and explain things, we need to discuss the lock first. The lock that doesn't fit to explain everything, but without locking we can't understand what's going on right now. Blokeoa runs ekonomikoren weapon beat yes, weapon ekonomiko beat yes. A blockade that has recently joined a perfect economic storm in Cuba and the rest of the world, but especially in Cuba, which already suffered from the blockade, has suffered the crisis of the covid, the oil supply crisis, and the 243 additional measures adopted by Trump prohibiting, for example, travel, shipment of remittances or the use of the dollar... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... 243 additional measures approved by Trump prohibiting, for example, travel, shipment of remittances or use of the dollar. All this logically as here, as in any other country in the world, as it generates discomfort, generates complaints, generates mobilizations and generates protests. And from my parliamentary group we defend the right to protest and that the right to demonstration must be protected anywhere in the world, in Euskadi, in Europe and also, of course, in Cuba. There were peaceful mobilizations and also some disturbances. We assume that if the episodes of police action against some demonstrations are condemned, we will also condemn and reject the burning of police stations and the attack on hospitals. Therefore, this debate, in addition to starting from the blockade, has to recognize the discomfort that exists in many countries of the world, and also in Cuba, because of the economic situation and the serious economic and social crisis that has been aggravated in a majority by the crisis of the covid and the closure of tourism. There have been mobilizations, let's say, significant, said Mr Agirre. There were also demonstrations that we absolutely respect as they came out alone and unique and exclusively to call for economic improvements, social improvements and also others that came out in defense of the government. Therefore, all mobilizations must be respected. And what we also condemn is the external use of the unrest generated in a population to drive regime changes in Cuba and elsewhere. And I will repeat later, it is only Cubans and Cubans who decide and continue to decide their future. Our position in every country in the world is based on an anti-repressive logic and is the same in all places and peaceful demonstrations. And that is why if we had voted, we were also going to support the initiative or amendment that EH Bildu was going to make, as set out in article 56 of the Cuban Constitution, they must be respected and allowed. But also with the same emphasis we condemn all acts of violence and sabotage that also took place within that framework. In all that has to do with peaceful mobilizations - and as expressed by many Cuban references to Cuban culture and Cuban music, for example, Silvio Rodríguez - we encourage a dialogue. A permanent dialogue with those who have concerns, have proposals and have expressed themselves peacefully in accordance with the dialogue, according to which the solution to the problems must be given between Cubans and Cubans in a free self-determination and a free decision on internal problems. But it said at first too, and it has been said in at least two previous speeches, the context also explains many things and we are talking about Cuba. A country that has been attacked and subjected to a criminal blockade for more than 60 years, which prevents it from trading with virtually any other country in the world, which prevents dollar transactions, which now prevents travel, which still prevents many of the meetings, which prevents, for example, a ship that docks in Cuba from then, for example, going to the United States, which involves 365 million euros a month of losses to the Cuban State, more than 4 billion euros a year. That in a developing Caribbean country, one of the regions most affected by climate change. A country that has also suffered the covid, the covid crisis, with greater intensity due to the closure of tourism, and an inflationary situation also very important due to the oil supply crisis. And yet, it has been able to develop a powerful public health campaign, to fight the covid and to develop several vaccines that have thus been able to protect the Cuban population and that are protecting many developing countries, such as our sister, the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic. A country that at that time has maintained the armies of white robes in many countries of the world and armies that we have seen in Italy or Andorra, armies of white robes fighting the covid. That it remains an academic, cultural and social power, but that - as we said - it also has serious economic, production and distribution problems, that the only thing it does is to increase, weaken an economy that is fragile and an economy that needs collaboration and to put all its potential into operation. And a blockade that is also totally ineffective for the goals that the United States has in Cuba, which is nothing other than regime change. And an island and a country that remains at a high human development index, at the number 67 out of 188 countries. That is also the joint context that we believe we need to talk about when we talk about Cuba. Therefore, we did not present an amendment because we knew that this initiative - and in this Parliament we have a culture of working most of the foreign policy and human rights issues together, in advance generally, in a dialogue, in a negotiated way - did not seek that. The fact that it was a year later, as it also illustrated the interest that could be had in that area and that there had not even been any appearance in that year, only a few control questions to try to generalize the cooperation for public development of the Basque Government with Cuba, but there had been no parliamentary action this year. That is why there was no intention of dialogue, and that is why we are not submitting any amendments. Our proposal towards these resolutions must be nothing other than to support the people of Cuba, to support the solution of the problems between Cubans and Cubans, to support that all this is given in a framework of non-interference in foreign policy and above all in not promoting regime changes as an example, Mr. Barrio, with the statements we make regarding Colombia, El Salvador or other countries when we talk about certain situations. We make recommendations, but we do not speak or speak in those terms. And also with a global consensus that year by year occurs against the blockade and also a blockade that has to end without any conditions. That is why we cannot support point four of the initiative presented. We logically support the end of the blockade, which you call embargo. But we can't argue that that... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... point 4 of the initiative presented. We logically support the end of the blockade, which you call embargo. But we cannot argue that that is on condition of fair things. It will be the Cubans and Cubans within the framework of their right to self-determination, to free decision, who decide the future of their country, and not this Parliament who has to set the political guidelines that they need to fill in in Cuba. That is why we also reaffirm - and I think it would be important for the rest of the groups to do so too - in the non-law proposal that we adopted on 6 May 2021 in the Foreign Action Committee of the Basque Parliament. Showing our rejection of the embargo; supporting Obama's process of normalization and encouraging Biden to resume it after Trump's blockade; urging the Basque Government to strengthen historical relations between the Basque and Cuban peoples; also business-to-business relations, research centres; and to maintain the policy of cooperation with all spheres and with all actors. And also urging the Government of Cuba and the European Union to continue in this framework of permanent dialogue, and that Cuba and that the European Union have signed it and thus have established it on an equal footing to discuss all measures. The coercive and natural measures, human rights, the 2030 agenda, and other issues being dealt with at that table. Therefore, just as Euskal Herria Bildu has done, we ask that the final point of the signed transaction be voted on by points. And in the rest we won't be able to support her. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u58	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing the answers, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u59	Thank you, President. Well, he spoke or criticized the opportunity or time of this initiative. I believe that the opportunity for this initiative is permanent, as is the opportunity for many other debates we have on similar situations. The opportunity and debate on the Saharawi issue is permanent... the opportunity and debate about the invasion of Ukraine will be permanent, if it affects people and people are subjected and judged. Or it will be a permanent opportunity for many to debate the Palestinian issue, or the situation of human rights violations in so many parts of the world. The issue is permanent, and it is never too late. Moreover, from what we have seen on this subject: time, moreover, this time, has allowed us to see the evolution of repression committed in 2021. It has allowed us to see how this repression committed in the demonstrations and protests of July 2021 has spread over time through judicial life, through the police, through the repressive route, through fear. That oil stain that spreads on these in this type of regimes, and it's been a worse evolution. That is why it is now, and that is why this type of initiative is, of course, in force. That has also enabled us, through the evolution and context in which we have moved to what I referred to before resolutions of the European Parliament, or of the United Nations High Commissioner, or of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, to frame what is today a great deal of agreement. I mean, we're happy with the transaction. And besides, Mrs Etxebarrieta said what constructive intention, that there was not. Well, all of it, constructive intent. If at one point we support the efforts of the European Union in relation to the process of dialogue, so for the achievement of freedoms, for democratisation. That is the fundamental element. It is clear that there is what is virtual in this initiative and in this agreement. In this agreement, which is going to be a very clear agreement on the commitment to human rights, and on demanding scrupulous respect for human rights. Something that is not happening in Cuba at this time by the action of the regime, by the action of its Government. It is quite clear that I referred earlier to that debate, which is timeless in this respect, but which is part of the attitude. I do not know whether it is our attitude that has to have any relevance, but the attitude that we are putting forward today and that we have brought to this debate is the attitude of the European Parliament, of its high representative of the European Union, of the Inter-American Commission of the United Nations High Commissioner. Those are the ones I said before, they have condemned the wave of repression that has taken place in Cuba. We can do it from the People's Party-citizens, of course we can, and this Parliament is going to do it. But this has been said by these high international bodies, where we are included and where we are moving. And they are of reference to us in assessing the fulfilment of the human rights situation in the world. And without going any further, in relation to what has happened in Cuba this year, and since the demonstrations... the European Parliament, in connection with the resolution of 16 December, called on the Cuban authorities to give immediate access to the country to the UN Special Rapporteur, the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression. In other words, Cuba must still be asked to do so from the international level. The arbitrary revocation of press credentials is condemned to the EFE agency and other international media that have wanted to be accredited in the country. I mean, they don't. And we saw it on Spanish television. And arbitrary restrictions on the work of press correspondents. It's just that it's minimal, it's even that. We saw it the other day, in the trial against the artists Castillo and Otero. He wouldn't let the press in. Staff of diplomatic embassies in Germany, Sweden, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Norway and the United Kingdom were not allowed to enter the courtroom. I mean, the media couldn't get in. That is the expression of what Cuba is and what its regime is in relation to this issue. And that's why we have to echo. And in addition, the European Parliament speaks of the fact that the member states and human rights defenders and the representatives of the member states - that is, we are representatives of the member states - which raise concerns, which raise concerns about the human rights situation in Cuba. And that's what this group is doing with this initiative, and having reached an agreement on the human rights situation... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... of human rights in Cuba. And that is what this group is doing, with this initiative and having reached agreement on the human rights situation in Cuba. To respond also to what it is to strengthen this work of the European Union in relation to the change and democratization and the achievement of freedoms in Cuba. Keep helping and keep putting our sand granite. And today we got it. I guess some of them are pissed off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u60	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Political groups and parties spoke here of timelessness. In other words, a repression that has been in Cuba for 60 years is timeless, it should not be dealt with, we should only deal with those problems that the left considers important. The Cubans aren't important. No, forgive me, but it is not a temporary issue; it is a very important issue and it remains important for the Cuban people, so we must continue to treat them, whether they like it or not. Around the situation of the Cuban people, there can be no half inks. All those who believe in democracy as a system of protection and guarantee of our rights and freedoms must be very firm to silence the lukewarmness and condescension with which some still treat Cuba's dictatorial regime, as we have seen in the debate on this initiative. If we are talking about low-profile policy, Mr Prieto, which you referred to, we have to look only at our president, Mr Sánchez. We have been twinning with Cuba for a long time and yet the profile it maintains is very low, of course it is low. He did an interview at CNN where he said and attacked the American embargo that Cuba was being made. But, on the other hand, when he went to meet on his visit to the United States, he chickened out, he chickened out as he always did. And what did he tell us? It showed absolute respect for the sanctions imposed on Cuba by the White House. That is to be low profile, Mr. Prieto, the one who does it from your party, that they do not put themselves either side or the other and always look for the most comfortable place for you. What we are clear is that if we want to help the people of Cuba, we must achieve a regime of full freedom in Cuba. And in addition, we must be very inconclusive and blunt, denouncing the trophies committed by Cuban rulers against their population. Because when the case of the Cuban regime is debated, the appearance of a classic also used as a public wild card by the left does not fail. We are talking about the US economic embargo. Like all communist dictatorships, the Cuban needs an excuse from an external enemy to blame for all evils. That foreign enemy is responsible for all its hardships that affect the population of Cuba and allows his government to evade and exculpate itself from any responsibility. And we will not allow it, because the responsibility for the Cuban people suffering from that repression lies with their leaders. Nothing more. And that's what we have to report day after day. I was also very pleased to hear Mr Martínez Zatón from the Podemos group. The position of Podemos, with its closeness to the communist regime, we have understood it perfectly; we have understood that it was not a comfortable position for you. One sentence that I'm sure you know who it is: "Fidel Castro taught the world the word sovereignty." Do you know who said that sentence? Isn't that right? Mr. Pablo Iglesias. For him is his reference Cuba. That's what he wants to establish in Spain, and that's what they're bringing us closer to. This may also have to do with the fact that Cuba's communist dictatorship has financed Podemos. Obviously, there's a kind of a favor, Mr. Martinez Zatón. With what face can we pretend to go as a defender of human rights and democracy if you keep quiet before the communist dictatorships and their leader, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, has one of these tyrannys as a reference? How are we gonna think this? Finally, it is clear that tyranny cannot be naturalized, we cannot normalize the systematic violation of rights and freedoms and we cannot legitimize the oppression that is being suffered in Cuba as a modus operandi. We cannot accept sine die that Cuba remains a dictatorial and totalitarian regime. And I think it's in our hand to report this whenever it takes, and it'll never be timeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u62	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseboy, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u63	Yeah. Yes, briefly. With your permission, I'll leave the seat. Only, to say, I don't know, many of us who are in the legislature say that in this space we carry some certitude and some teachings. And one of the things I've learned in international beauty is the importance of words, how important it is how we say things and how we do a point to be common or not. They have a terrible influence on it, not just in international beauty, but it has a lot of it. And when we have discussed with Mr. Barrio, Mr. Prinet, Mr. Aguirre, and the other spokesmans of your group who have brought the international affairs of human rights, we have entered into a great deal of detail, in order to obtain the agreements that will be to us as great as possible. Eta nik Bakarrik irakurri nahiko nuke zuen gaurko erdibideko honetan Europar Batasunari dagokionean egiten den proposimenareran puntua éta ekainean guk onartu genuena. Zuenak, hirugarrenak said: "that it is demanded, according to the dialogue initiated, that the Cuban Government take firm and decisive steps in the democratic and economic opening and make the necessary reforms for the citizens to enjoy all rights and freedoms as soon as possible". And we said, in paragraph four of that compromise we agreed, that we were urging the Government of Cuba to strengthen the five political dialogues implemented since 1 November 2017 with the European Union, and we were talking about what those dialogues were. Words are important, the way to say them is important, and conversation matters. And in the agreement of a country and we want to get on our way... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the manner of saying is important, and conversation is of importance. And in the agreement of a country, and a proposition which we intend to establish in the right way, requires this. And today yours didn't have it. But that's why we think there's one important point that talks about conversation, the one that talks about cooperation, and that's what we're trying to protect. And we're asking for the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u65	Thank you, President. I believe that the important thing of the debate that we are having is the defence of human rights, the demand for freedom of prisoners, the demand to make a political transition to democracy, the end of the embargo, the blockade, as it is intended to be defined, and the continued cooperation between Euskadi and the Cuban people. I think this is the fundamental thing. And everything else because they are more or less positions and nuances that each one wants to do. But I do not know if anyone in this House can be against these five elements. Moreover, we are not against what Bildu proposed, because it is something that is already assumed, we agreed on 18 June last year. This does not mean that the debate was exhausted there and that the only way to speak or interpret the situation in Cuba is that of that GNP, but that there are other elements that are coming together and on which they stand. In fact, this initiative comes here as a result of demonstrations and the events of those demonstrations. And we keep talking about it. And, therefore, we would not have had any problem matching that proposal which was agreed by an absolute majority within this initiative. In the same way as if Mr Martínez Zatón had made an amendment and had asked us that the complaint about the violent expressions in those demonstrations needed to be reinforced with what he was saying, I would have had no problem in subscribing to it. In the same way as in that second part, which was coincident with Mrs Etxebarrieta. I therefore believe that we are dealing with a debate where there are approaches, I do not know whether they are fearful or what to call them, but that they are actually part of the elements and debates that we have had here and that have sometimes produced other kinds of consensus. I certainly would not have been closed to anything that Mrs Etxebarrieta has put forward and nothing that Mr Martínez Zatón has put forward in relation to the content of the possible transactional. I'd stay... I would like to keep this, with the importance of making an expression of solidarity with Cuban citizens in the terms we have put forward. And in relation to Mrs Martínez, simply to say that in the world, if there is a contradiction, it is to be fascist and to defend human rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u66	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As we agreed in June, we also ask the honor of democracy, liberty, conversation, co-worker, hostage, and of human rights. Just the same. We're not... We haven't changed. And wherever there's watering of human rights, anywhere, we'll always say our charges. That was a point. But I have said more than once in this House that the embargo, in addition to being unjust and causing enormous deprivations above all to the civilian population, has never been effective in the final objectives that I at least understand that it had at its origin, that it was the return of all the property seized from 1959, by Fidel Castro basically, to companies and citizens of the United States and to overthrow by other means the Castro regime, especially after the failure of Girón beach or Bay of Pigs in April 1961, because neither the Cuban people rose nor the Government has fallen, and that in more than six decades. Rather, I believe it caused the opposite effect: on the one hand, it strengthened the Cuban regime internally and internationally, but above all I believe that for Fidel Castro it was the perfect excuse not to open the regime to democratic standards contained in international law. Today there is no free economy or freedom to set up a business. The economy is controlled by the State, and basically by the military, which have absolute control over the productive apparatus, the joint ventures and the participants. And what he has shown over these decades is his total inefficiency. And we, beyond asking for freedom of enterprise, also call for democracy. But the freedom of enterprise at best could lead to greater social well-being for the population of Cuba. So it's a clabe, because it's a democratic and economic opening. And that's why we believe that the Cuban government has to take a strong step to get it, and as soon as possible. (Cubaks? ) Can't wait any longer. That's our... we think... what we think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u68	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u69	We've said the maximum in taking the first word to explain our attitude, our attitude towards conversation, our complete attachment to human right here, even in Europe and Cuba. And some things to explain too. And I think... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... jarrera, giza eskubidearekiko gure atxikimendu osoa hemen, European age Kuban bathe era. It's been a long time since the Azaltzeko gauza batzuk. Eta nik uste dut Carmelo Barriok badakizki, bath azaltzekotan... The United Nations, the entire United Nations system is deployed in Cuba and there is no..., in fact, also recognized in the General Assembly itself. You have the annual statement against the blockade, Unesco, Unicef, the United Nations Mission in Cuba, the Embassy of Spain itself, one of the most active in collaboration with the Cuban people in various areas. Cuba has already said that it is ready to sit with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights on equal terms, it has recently said so again. There is a dialogue that I know it was hard for you to change your mind, but it was activated after Aznar's infamous position on the blockade that pushed change, then the European Union's change of common position towards the blockade was pushed forward, and now it is rejected, and that is why Cuba started those dialogues, those dialogues in 2017, on those five points on equal terms, because we are talking about human rights in Cuba, and we are talking about human rights in Europe as well. Once again to say and to ask for that support to point five literally, because there are others that we could support in part, but, well, since there has been no dialogue or opportunity to have sex – neither we had tabled an amendment – we have not been able to quantify those points, but we have been able to ask for a separate vote on point five, because we have to support Basque cooperation in Cuba, and that agreement, that agreement that the Basque Government and the Cuban Government have in this area, in defending the work of Basque NGOs in Cuba, because it has been questioned in this Parliament, not by the groups that support the Government, but by other groups on more than one occasion, and not only in this legislature. To support and defend bilateral cooperation in business matters, which we believe is also an element to be deepened, and also to defend in this sense the dialogue between equals with the island; therefore, I repeat what we said in the first intervention. We are prepared to talk about all the issues of international policy, but it has not been intended to do so, as has not been done on other occasions, but as is done in the Commission on Human Rights and in the Committee on Foreign Action, which I urge the rest of the groups to feel that we should cooperate and dialogue and negotiate if the intentions are legitimate. I believe that the intentions of the proponent groups of this initiative have nothing to do with human rights or with theoretical support for the people of Cuba, but with the need to continue fighting and to continue promoting a change in the political system in a particular country, in this case in Cuba. That is not the role of the Basque Parliament. The role of the Basque Parliament must be to defend human rights, sovereignty and the right to self-determination of all peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u70	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-directional corrections signed by Basque popularCanos, Basque Socialists and Euzébertarians. Asked for stitches, I think there's no problem. Vox's been asking for stitches, too. So we vote for points number one, two, three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 27; abstainments, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u71	The first three points have been approved. Next, we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters of 45; the contrary, 27; abstainments, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u72	It's accepted. And finally, we vote for spot five. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the given votes, 73; the supporters, 73; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0,0, 0; 0,0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u73	So, the 5th point has been unanimously accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciation of the same way as the Parliamental teams, the management and organization of the ports of the coasts of Basqueports to respect their cultural and historical connection to the sea. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Iriart, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u74	Good noon, everyone. Congressmans, Ma'am of Parliament, good day. And especially those municipal representatives who came to us from coastlands. Today we leave Cuba, we take the Granma boat and come to our coast. EKP, in order to improve the business of the Eucharistic sports ports, we have added a proposition to the table today and it brings us here. If, as we believe, it is the means of improving the conditions of citizens and the daily conditions of life, we ought first to agree about the situation, we ought to agree in the diagnosis. And I think everyone here will notice that EKP has a lot to improve. We can at least agree on that. And if, as I have said, we agree with this principle, it is not a small one. (... ) With any member of any sports ports, if he can speak to any one who has a ship, he will confirm it. But it is enough in the countries at the coast, or the political representatives of the people, or the representatives of the people, or the citizens, to have a knowledge of it. But beyond that, it's also in the press, and for the last few days... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It is sufficient to speak to the representatives, or to the people, to have knowledge of it. But beyond this there are also read in the press, and during the last few days there have been some news about it. On the Costian pier, for instance, 60 ships have declared that they won't leave, that they won't get the boat out. Yesterday, even a news from Placentia was brought by the press, where the owners are going to bring EKP to the trial. As I said, if EKP has something to do with it. Some of us would go beyond it, and there would be more, but that's what we're going to say: If he's got something to do with it. And the proposal here, in this way of improvement, would be a step forward. Most of the organizations EKP produced during the contests have been clumsy: the transparency has been missing from the first day. And the order to do this, in fact, plays ambiguously and creates conflicts. The surface and exercise of the ships have been used to spread out the owners, and some contrivances have been carried, for instance, that the same models should be different from the surface, and consequently that some should be assigned and taken possession of the mother, and others not. And that's not a little short, and we can also say that even in the zoos where they've been made, there has been a lack of clarity. Therefore it seems time for us to turn on the bad management of EKP, and by this foundation we would like to add a second foundation, and it is of transparency. And we believe that the indicator of this absence of transparency, and that from now on all processes should be more transparent, would be easy to agree with us at least. We are told that the decisions which are often made are wanting of reason and transparency. I'm thinking of the Placia case in the press yesterday, and he says: "Hemo enviado un escrito a la Comision Vasca de Acceso a la Informationion Pública para nos aeuden a ver los datos de medicio que eKo EKo, y gairnos así con tenas loños de manron los propis, per nomos consguido lación." That, in the name of a public society, seems to us to be rather clumsy, isn't it? And not only this, but also in the case of Donostania, when the first contest was made, by chance, the 90% of the ships already existing, were they not benefited? And this was reported, and the contest was cancelled, and the second was made, and the second, even at this moment, is implicated. That's why they're so suspicious these days, and the atmosphere isn't very calm. And that's why we say that the process, this new process, must be the basis of transparency, and that we think it's an important part that the harbor councils can play, and it should be central. So, in the first two points, we think we should agree. The third harbour, and here we make our proposal, and the "EH Collectors" proposes a proposition, and it is to place the ports in value. On the one hand, we think it's important for ports... be sporting ports and ports in general... To put it in value. You can't handle these, we think, as a parking lot. We believe that the seaports play a great deal of important paper, and have acted, and are part of the character of our coasts and coasts. Almost 500 years this year, we're celebrating Elkano's world. The accounts of fishermen who were going to Ternua in coast villages and euscal history are carved in the books of our history. But today's regulations manages docks as a parking lot, and it looks like it's like a Puerto Banús, or that's what they want and what they dream. And for us, the culture of sea and coast, the material basis and the immateriaal domain, would have to be the instrument or space to serve us in all. We've all seen what beautiful boats have come into the Bay of Pasadena last week and what success the marine Festal has had. Many of us know the Albaola project, which still begins and works in the city of St. Childhood of 2022. All which have been observed by our coasts with the sea, and by their narrow and peculiar relation, which, we think, is important to keep and to strengthen. And it is plain that in these, where we have fewer ships, as far as the sea and port takes more and wider space, such space as this inheritance and relation to the sports ports must be shared in this, in this case, −, in this inheritance, and in this culture of sea, and in this recovery and strength. And how? We made a proposal. From the first moment we've said that this proposition is controversial, that we're willing to talk and that we're ready to agree. And for this purpose, we have obtained a middle course with Poseidon, who has tried to shut up with all the rest; some of our refusals were clear, and we found them far away. You say "no," but then you see the texts, and they were written in the same letters, but not much more. We have tried others, and we have not received the answer; we understand that you have difficulties, although we have been protected in certain townships. But we believe that this medium, which we have obtained in our first proposal, was the basis of our census, and, looking at the springs, we have made the confession of the connection of the ports to the sea in the centre, and proposed to make new orders with the council of ports with these systems of authority. In point of fact, we have attempted to discuss the question, and with it we have proposed the nature of the management from now on: We propose, on the one hand, to be transparent, and on the other a relation to the sea, and that this value must be a place in managing it. Yes in the allocation, but often in the use of the docks. For there are some who have had other uses than traditions, and it seems to us that they cannot be excluded, or that they cannot be left illegal or external, but must be regulated. To make confession of the relation of the ports to the sea, we believe that it is indispensable, and that the sports ports and the manner of managing the sports ports now must necessarily change. Everyone points out that the way they've made and the way they've been conducting is not good. That's why we put it here today. [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... every one expresses that the dispositions and the manner in which management has been made are not good. That's why we're making the proposal here today. We have proposed to integrate the council committees of the ports in the new order for the support of consent from the fundamental proposal. For these are the necessities of every town, the customs of every town, the customs of every nation, and the knowledge of the customs of each nation; and, in short, they ought to know and suggest the matter directly. The whole nature of ports, as I have said, ought to be considered. And in that sense EKP should integrate these too. Like the bath or fish. The Donostian case, for instance, is significant, in which, at a time when the habit of bathing in years and years, from one day to another, the barriers were placed and stopped. Or of Placentia, where EKP is in the power of the harbour for the new bridge, it is forbidden to do so even in the midst of the White Bridge. This dispute is here here to-day, but this dispute has long been debated among the peoples, and this dispute is being discussed even in the councils. We've proposed this proposal in the ten councils of the EKP. It has sometimes been admitted, sometimes it has not yet been admitted, or has not been disputed. In the case of Orio, for instance, PSE has protected him. In the case of Donostia, the Popular Party and Podemus have also protected it. What we propose is doable and legal. It is possible, and it is legal, on the one hand, that we have examined the legal field, and that it may be done because the members or persons who have been heard in this department have expressed it to us, may be justified. It is a work of some other autonomys in other communities, because, in the case of Asturias and the singer, they are made. It is very probable that in the port of Pasadena in 2011 the harbour is made by a decision made by the command of the harbour. We understand that if you like, then you can do it. It's just that some of them may not want it. And it is intelligible, and may be intelligible, but we believe that we must be transparent here. Because when we made a full correction and read it, it seemed as if the justification of EAJ was not to be done, and that it was confined to this inability to do so. We have cultivated it, and it can be done for what has been said to us, and in this sense it is possible to make a regulation, as in other matters. We repeat, this relation to the sea is what ought to be regulated by it. And for this purpose we have proposed a method: to be registered in the coasts. But as we are ready for discussion and ready to agree, we propose to remove this in the middle of the middle, and to take part in the work of a new decree, and determine how to make this regulation. However, we have a feeling that − EAJ does not see it so, and that he wishes to continue the management of the sports ports of the present day: It's like it's a lot of parking lot, and it's awkward, and it's also dark. We think it's time to take a step, and that's why the proposal. By this means, whether what we have agreed with Poseidon, or what we understand, is to support the Populous party, what we have attempted is to contribute to this new cultivation, which will be made of different views. But EAJ does not approve, or does not understand, the nature of his inheritance. He doesn't want the council of ports to integrate with the work of the new order, and he doesn't want to set up a system of pre-operation for the people at the coast. Well, tell us why. We propose, in our middle course, to appreciate the nature and value of the ports, that the municipal councils of ports should be completed within six months, and that these municipal commissions should be integrated into the work of the new order; we propose to base the tithes by a system of marine culture, and by a system of custom for which we propose to regulate the customs and customs which are in several ports above ten, and to regulate them in the new order. And lastly, we propose to make a plan of what the sports ports may have about the environment. In fine, here's a problem, this problem has to be given a solution. The way this solution could not be equal to what EKP has done until now. And here the laws of the ports, as was required by the municipal council of the harbours to produce them, are an important part which may be played in the name of transparency and in the name of its knowledge. And to put these in the middle, we think it's very important. We also understand that at the time when PSE proposed the formation of the commission in accepting the laws of ports. We understand that PSE should also agree to create, strengthen, and compromise these municipal councils of the townships or ports in the work of this new order. So, on our side, this proposition is clear. On the one hand, EKP's current model must be changed. On the other hand, transparency must be a definite criterion, and must be clear in all this course, because the relations and the mistrusts that are at this moment are dreadful. The port has something more beyond the parking lot, and the value must be accepted as their value. And we have to get them to the people. It can be done if you like. We believe that in this sense we should consider the value of the peoples on this coast of the country, and therefore be obliged to prefer them to a system of legislation. What I said, here on the table, we have a discussion. We're ready to talk. It will be discussed in more ports, it will be discussed in more countries, and this discussion will be more likely. More than I thought, I hoped we'd be closer to each other, but I found you far away. I repeat, from our reading, and from what our experts have told us, it's a thing to do. It's done in other places. So, you see, we must all make a new order. I think EKP also knows that the work we've been working on hasn't been appropriate. Then I'd like to hope we meet again on the way. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u75	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerza. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u76	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. There is a growing wave of complaints by users of Euskadi sports ports about how they are awarded... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... There is a growing wave of complaints by users of Euskadi sports ports about how berths are awarded in these ports. Sports ports that with the approval of the Law 2/2018 of the Ports and Transport of the Basque Country, manages the public entity - as has been said - Euskal Kirol Portuak or EKP and is attached to the Department of the Counsel Arantxa Tapia. EKP has a curious history, since it emerged as an anonymous company in 2000 and 20 years later, this private company has integrated into the Public Administration. It will be of the few cases that instead of privatizing a company has been integrated into the Administration. During these 20 years, EKP has been the focus of several polemics related to the tariffs of the users of the ports and the allocation of the berths places. This is the case of the Port of Bermeo, which the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the Supreme Court gave the reason to the users who denounced the abusive tariffs of 2016, with increases of up to 70%, and the government had to return about a million euros to the owners of the boats. Other cases were the users of Plentzia and Donosti - whom we have already heard - who have denounced to the courts the lack of transparency and the procedure for awarding the moorings. The current procedure is specified in the order 2017, which regulates the criterion of allocation of places. This criterion gives preference to vessels that best fit the dimensions of the mooring square, and in the case of a draw is drawn. What is clear is that the criterion of dimensions is not being the most appropriate. In fact, there is knowledge of some picaresca - as I have previously indicated - to artificially retouch the dimensions of certain boats for their best fit in the square. Nor is there much transparency in the drawing. All this indicates that the criterion needs to be improved and that it needs to be further developed. However, the groups that support the Government by the amendment to the whole they have tabled appear to agree with this criterion and to bet on continuity in this way. From our group, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we believe it is necessary to update and improve the criteria of the procedures, as reported by users of Plentzia and Donosti. In this sense we share with EH Bildu his proposal. The preference criterion should not be in the setting of the mooring, but perhaps in prioritizing people living in the locality, traditional boats or other criteria that prioritize other aspects. Our initiative is to evaluate the model of the sports ports of Euskadi and its environmental and landscape impacts, because we understand that in order to establish the criteria of allocation of moorings the first thing to do is to establish the model or strategy regarding the sports ports. And in this sense we have nothing clear. How many marinas and how big do we want for Euskadi? We want to reduce car parking, but we increase the squares of the boats. Do we want small ports for local people or do we want ports like Puerto Banus or Saint-Tropez with high-end boats and other types of tourism? Because this also implies the tourism model. The last plan expired in 2020, and we need an assessment and a new road map that solves the problems and shows the model of sports ports we want. Because after what happened in Plentzia and Donosti, it seems that the criterion is oriented towards a favorable model of boats for tourists or non-local people. And if so, please state clearly. Also at the end of May, Manuel Lezertua, of Ararteko, reported an increase in these types of claims on the criteria for awarding the Plaza de los Ports. All this indicates that the award procedure is highly improveable. There is a need for a transparent and fair process. A transparent process, but we also want to say participatory. And this is where we miss the harbour municipal councils. As we discussed in our amendment, these councils are not working. And it is that the Ports Act itself does not oblige its creation, and they also leave out possible participants of the council to environmentalist sectors. We demand that the harbour municipal councils be mandatory and put in place as soon as possible to determine the model of sports ports, and that all the sectors involved also participate: citizenship, fishermen, but also environmental experts who are very concerned about the impacts of these sports ports. Impacts on the landscape of the traditional port, impacts on overfishing, impacts on the construction of dams and other infrastructures and the future effects on the waves, together with sea level, the future rise of sea level by climate change. Greenpeace's environmental organization already reported in 2006 and warned us that the Basque Autonomous Community is the one that had the largest growth of sports moorings quadrupling the squares with, in fact, the serious impact on the natural environment that this entails. That is why, in our initiative, we have called for these impacts to be studied in order to plan the development of sports ports in a more sustainable way. Right now, all we see is that we only want more ports and bigger and more moorings and more tourism. For all this, we wanted to give you a more holistic approach, because it's not going to be... But it's not going to be possible, because the groups that support the government are not going to support us, but good. This model will be decided by EKP without the participation of municipal councils. To our understanding this would be a mistake, so we urge that these councils be launched and that a more transparent, fair and sustainable port model be constructed in a coordinated and consensual manner. Because the model will determine the priorities, and that of these the awards of the moorings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u77	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u78	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. With your permission, I would like to begin with a small chapter of thanks. I'd like to thank and acknowledge the help you've given me... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... With your permission, I would like to begin with a small chapter of thanks. I would like to thank and acknowledge the help that the geriatrics have given me and despite that fellow and good friend Jon Azkue. We are here with an initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu which, in our view - and what I am going to say is in the justification of it - seeks to establish a division that does not exist in our ports. There are no problems between our fleet, which is dedicated to professional fishing and recreational fishing. There hasn't been a policy to promote the sports ports that hit or touched the needs of our fishermen. They've been able to develop their activity by means of better development and development technology. Every fishing boat is getting better and better at the present day. At the present day, they are better off than ever to approach the product to the market, and the Kukuanas have experienced a profound transformation. And that has had a lot of influence even in the logistical logism needed by any fishingport. Therefore, it cannot be said - because it is not true - that the reality of the ports has changed until, in the most lactating case, the fishing port has become a marina. This would mean the Government abandoning measures for our efforts. And there is nothing further from this reality. No, we can't confront the users of the sports ports with the stalls. Many, thousands of them, have passed and become users of sports ports when they retire. It is good to remember that the Law concerning Ports, and Sea Transports, was admitted on the 28th of June 2018; and that, like all Laws, it needs time to develop by rule. The time that has passed for some will perhaps be excessive, while for others not so much. But we all agree on something: that the laws ought to be developed by rule. And that's euscal socialist euscal and Euscal Abertist in the correction we've set up. As I say, there is something we all agree on, and that is why we have included it in the amendment by the Basque Socialist and Basque Nationalist groups. It is necessary to develop all the regulations referred to in the Act. That is why we agree that the Ports Act should also be developed in what belongs to Euskal Kirol Portuak. During the discussions of this Parliament in the drafting of the law, much was said by those who present today the PNL and Elkarrekin Podemos about the privatization that involved the creation of Euskal Kirol Portuak. Today, at least we will all agree that EKP is public and its performances, therefore, are also public. Indeed, there have been problems with the award through the call for concessions of berthing places for recreational boats on the seventh list, in Donosti and in other municipalities to which reference has already been made. We are aware of the judicialization undertaken by the citizens concerned. They have also contacted us neighbours of Hondarribia, Getaria, Lekeitio, as well as the Donostiaras. We truly believe that the solution is not in drawing up the list of priorities, as EH Bildu and copy Elkarrekin do We can in their initiatives that today have had sex, score first the one of the people, then the next and in third position to the far away is not to take into account, for example, how many of the current ones with assigned mooring can be found without square. We have therefore taken great care to draft our joint amendment, appealing to dialogue, of course, but appealing to the common sense behind Euskal Kirol Portuak's actions. We believe that direct communication should indeed be established between the Government and citizens and, therefore, also between Euskal Kirol Portuak and the Euskadi Port Authority with the present and future users of our sports ports. Our amendment says so. I'd like you to read it carefully. The fourth paragraph therefore calls on the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment to continue to strengthen participation with the various economic, professional and social sectors involved in the port sector in its commitment to continuous improvement in the management of sports ports. Because we firmly believe in dialogue and also in the need for the Basque Government to continue to update the rules applicable to recreational watercraft in order to adapt it to the current circumstances in sports ports. With a new regulation that establishes the legal basis for establishing a management of the ports as elements of socio-economic development of the country, according to the principles of sustainability, solidarity, equivalence, free competition, integrated management and accessibility that establishes the Law 2/2018 of Ports and Maritime Transport of the Basque Country. Finally, let me express here today my satisfaction and that of my group for the coincidence in the GNP and in both amendments of the need for the development of the fourth article of the Ports and Transport Act to which I have referred so much as soon as possible. Article I remember bears the title of institutional and social participation. Socialists are committed in their day to the inclusion of this article in the Law. We believe that it is vitally important to launch institutional participation through the consultative and participation bodies that are legally available: among them, the Harbour Municipal Council responsible for articulating the relations between the Harbour Administration and the municipal administrations, responsible for municipalities that obviously have a port. Los sociisticis lo venimos dicendo desde hace mucho tempo. We can't rule our people. They are not two distinct elements from one side of −, on the other, the harbour, and on the other, the people with our history, completely artificial, and without any connection. That's why the importance of this council. The rights and the necessity of the citizen cannot end as if the port's door were a limit. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u79	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. The sea is part of our personality and culture. The harbors and docks are witnesses of the history of our people. And we can't deny that the long Euskarian port tradition has produced an economic and social influence on the development of coastland populations, fishing, commerce, and industry. We can't deny it or... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...that he's had an economic and social influence on the development, fishing, trade, and industry of coastland populations. Nor can we deny, especially in the course of recent years, the growth of leisure in our waters, or of the development of the Euscal Coast tourism. I'd like to give some information, or at least I'd like to be clear from the beginning. The harbors are public payers. Los puertos sonen bieniales. And they are subject to the administration of the people. In this case, the port we're going to argue with, it's on the eubony. What do we mean by that? that they have publicitularity, that they have general or public use, and that they are goods for collective enjoyment. I mean, everybody and everybody. Nuestros puertos son de todos y todas, y para todos y todas. Why did I explain this? Well, if we read the other proposal of the law given by EH Collect, it may sometimes be doubted. The ports and the use of them should be but for some few, de-doves exclusiusvo. (... SOCRATES: Yes, indeed; On the one hand, the problems which have been in the institution of the mother-houses, by judicial accusations, are the uneasiness of local institutions. Sure. Because the request is much greater than the offer, because it has tripled. Secondly, in the 14th article of Command 53.30, it says there is no criteria for Allocation. But next you describe the criteria given in the article. Are there any criteria or aren't there? Wait, there are. One other thing, you didn't like it. Thirdly, That the want of exactness of Command in the People, considers not all the historical Traditions they have of the Sea, and their relation to it. I still don't know what you mean by this. Should the port be ordained that it is only the citizens of the coast, or those of the people? Would you say that you and I, being in the college at Devabare, are the beach of Satura for only the mutricauar? You can't have a shower or a bath in Saturran? Fourth. You say the differences which have caused theports of sports and the survival of sports navigation. Because there are more boats for the attack than traditional or fishing. But is that not a change of manners which society has in common? To give or to give solution to all this, is the following proposition: One, in general speaking of harbours, may be called material or immaterial patrimony. Which ones? All ports, old ports, new ports, sports ports. That's what I'm talking To have harbours and port services for the public good. Mr. Irriart, there are ports for the enjoyment of every citizen. That's why they're public payers. He asks three EKPs to create councils. And that's where we agree. What has been said in the fourth article of the law concerning ports and transports must be fulfilled. But I would like to remember what EH Collect agreed on this law in this parliament, in this chamber, in the fourth article, he voted? On the contrary. What about Podemus? On the contrary. And the vote of this fourth article was rejected by both of you. But the Eunerists believe that we have now received − in our rectification with the Basque Socialists, to determine the contents, constitutions, and actions of the municipal councils at once. Laugarren eskaria egiten duzuena, 53.30 agiduaren 14. artikulua aldatzea eskatzen duzue. Irispid aldaketa eskatzen duzue. Eta sleipenetan nortzuk izan beharko luketen lehentasunak jartzen duzue. Eta hor, hor bai ez aurkituko station. Eta zergatik? Because you propose an illegality. In public tendering procedures, any discrimination on grounds of territory is prohibited. The granting procedure must ensure the principle of equal opportunities and free competition, and the defence of general interests. The principle of equality and free competition cannot be violated. Do you remember at the beginning of my speech that I was going to be clear? Well, that's it. We must all act with that research, and apply ourselves. And don't create false expectations for the citizenry. We must be clear and sincere, Mr. Iriarte. Even if it costs us sometimes. And second order, you ask for transparency criteria at the EKPri procedures. Only at this point do they appear publicly to remember that the procedures are as marked by the law. Therefore, in a short time: we should describe the end of this enterprise in two sentences. First, Change of Article 53.30 of October 2017. I mean, returning to Debarea, Mr. Irart. We're fine today. For the last three years, someone who lives in Mutrikun should have a priority to get a mother's seat, than someone who lives 30 years in Mutrikun and lives ten Mendaron. Does that sound fair to you? That's what you're proposing. Or another one, you're a Tolsosian, and you've got a bunk in Tolos. Where does it have to dock? What haven't you got a harbor, have you? Where should he go? Or should he wait for glue? Should he wait for all the other passengers to sail and then go to Toulouse or the Red Queen? That's what you've put in or picked up in this initiative, even in the middle. And going back to the objectives of the initiative, the second sentence: "That what is indicated in point four of the Ports Act is fulfilled". And in that, as I said before, we agree. Given that these two are the objectives of this GNP, we believe... well, we believe no, we are convinced that they are best reflected in our amendment. Where on the one hand, we propose that we continue to update the regulations, always complying with the Law... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... we believe no, we are convinced that they are best reflected in our amendment, where, on the one hand, we propose that we continue to update the regulations, always complying with the law. And we tell the Government how this new regulation should be set up for the proper management of our ports, respecting the principles of sustainability, solidarity, equivalence, free competition, integrated management and accessibility. As we also propose to move forward in the definition, content, composition and functioning of municipal councils, as stated in article 4 of the Ports Act. Without forgetting to strengthen participation with the various economic, professional and social sectors involved in the port sector. In short, what do we ask for in our correction? First, ports are part of the personality and culture of our people. Every citizen must be assured of the use of them, and of the use of them, that he may enjoy them, that he may be Zumaic, Bermeoko, Oroosa, Gasteiz, Oñati, or Sondassi. Part of the form of Los puertos de la identidad y Cultura de nuestro país. Toda la ciudad debe tener vantizado su dove y disfrute, sea de donde sea. This, by the proper use of them, without endangering their physical perfection, and without hindering others from enjoying it. Bigarrenik, Euskal Autonomy Erkidegoko Portuei eta Itsas Garraioari buruzko Legearen 4. artikulua betetzen hasteko garage da. Eta, horretarako, Bertan aipatzen say kontseiluen edukia, dare be the age of the founder of Zehazten as well as behar da Gobernua. Article 4 of the Ports and Maritime Transports Act of the Basque Country must be complied with. We therefore urge the Government to move forward in defining the content, composition and functioning of municipal councils. And thirdly, we ask the Government to continue to update the Order 5330, 19, October 2017, because it is not always possible to comply with the law. "Solicitamos al Gobierno Vasco que continúe con actación de la Beron, 5330 del 19 de octubre del 2017, siempre cumplicendo con la ley." This is our proposal, which we hope will have as much support as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Muriel, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u82	Good morning. Thank you very much. President, Members of Parliament, Counsellor. Well, look, I'm going to try to simplify a little everything we've heard with respect to this initiative. This initiative is born because it turns out that in the port of Bermeo, that of Plentzia, that of Donostia, because the users or the concessionaires who presented themselves in order to obtain a mooring again in their ports do not conform to the awards or the lots that have been made and denounced, denounce these awards, and they have to... at least in Donostia, it has to repeat that award. They are not compliant because it seems that there has been a certain trichinella used by some users or, well, that they expanded the occupation that their boats gave, their boats, to be able to access those moorings, in which priority was given to the size of the..., that is, there were certain moorings for certain sizes of ships, okay?, the occupation of the sea. Well, then, what needs to be done is to listen to the needs of users. Law 2/2018 of 28 June on Ports and Maritime Transport of the Basque Country makes this very clear. He says: "Euskadi's historical, economic and social connection with the sea and port activity is undeniable." He also says that, in view of the future, it is clear that much of our economic, social and political future is closely related to the activities that have in ports the infrastructures necessary for their development, such as commercial, industrial, fishing and leisure activities relating to sports and nautical activities and, associated with the latter, tourism. Okay. We agree. Should we promote our ports? Yeah. It also says this law, and it has been mentioned on several occasions, in its article 4 it gives..., that is, it gives entity to the harbour municipal councils as advisory bodies. So, what I have read in several of the initiatives is that these municipal councils need to be set up to be consulted. Why? For surely that which the nearest administration listens to the neighbors to see..., or the neighbors, to the nearest ones, to solve their problems or their concerns, for something should have been heard at this time when in the Law of Ports and Maritime Transport of the Basque Country it collects it. So, in the transactional that Bildu and Podemos have signed, they come to say, well, a date, six months for those maritime councils to be set up. We don't know if the time or the premise is necessary to be so fast. But, well, listen, because it is necessary to develop the Ports and Maritime Transport Act of the Basque Country, well, it can be an appropriate time to do so. At the time when the users, in which the neighbours of Donostia, of the users of the sports ports of Donostia, Bermeo or Plentzia it turns out that they have some difficulties to access their sports ports or to moor their boats because equally is the appropriate time to develop article 4 of Law 2/2018. Then, regarding point five of the transaction that Podemos has made with Bildu, they speak of Decree 5330. This Decree 5330 is dated October 19, 2017. And talk about... The procedure for granting and granting concessions for the use of berths by recreational boat owners is regulated. It is clear that the complaints they have made, that they have filed, the users or owners of those recreational boats when they get the concession of those moorings have something to do with that they are not satisfied with the solution that we are giving them from EKP, that public entity... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... in order to obtain the concession of their moorings, something has to do with that they are not satisfied with the solution that we are giving them from EKP, that public entity, regulated that concession in Decree 53/30, something we will have to do, and deny the evidence that there is a discomfort on the part of the users of the ports, because it would not be adequate, and there is a discomfort, there is a discomfort, at least in Donostia, where I am habitually, there is a growing discomfort on that it is not giving solution to the problem of the people who have boats, that they will remain without mooring, because the usual users of those ports are those of the chipironeras, the lords older than yes, yes, yes, yes. What happens is that by giving priority to vessels with higher lengths that occupy much more water, because in the end these are the ones that use the port more habitually, much more daily. What happens, because in the end the home stays without access to their ports. But it is not something that is said here in the Basque Country, that is said in Donosti, that is said in Plentzia or that is said in Bermeo, in some of those ports, but that if someone from Bilbao wants to access or to compete to have a mooring in Cantabria, because they also have those requirements, those bonuses for registration in that community. Therefore, free competition is not against taking into account certain criteria, it does not contradict. And what is said in the initiative, I want to understand, in the transaction, apart from talking about the Basque Ports Strategic Plan, comes to say that some kind of barema can be taken into account to take into account the inhabitants of the Basque Autonomous Community, the Basque citizens. Yes, in the end, who are the ones who have the greatest tradition to use sports ports?, for those who are close. That does not mean that no one will be prohibited from using ports, but that there are a number of variations that improve, and that is given in any kind of contest, public contest, to the use of any kind of... to any kind of public ground, those types of criteria are used, and simply, the only thing that is asked here is to make that use. That we agree in the development of the law, we agree that the ports are intrinsically related to Basque culture, and this is what we have to say about these initiatives: that we have nothing against none of them, because it is really a cry in the port cities that need to use those ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EHG, Mr. Iriart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u84	Well, he's on his way to the answers. I think we ought to agree with certain things, but I don't think we agree with them any more. I used to call it a diagnosis. I'm impressed. It's in your middle, but, Mrs. Wide, once you hear your words, EKP's management seems to be just the same as you do. And when you say with transparency, you publish it at the Boltine, I tell you what to say. Yeah, yeah, but if we can see it, and they're members of the EKP, or councils, or party owners, or ships, or if we read the press, we can see the transparency of the turpentine. And to deny that is to deny everything. That's what bothers me, because if you deny everything, I'm sure you can say "−" here, at least that I thought we agreed on it: The EKP practice has to be improved. The criteria of transparency must be established, as they are not hitherto, because, as you put your last point in the middle-point: "Siga reforzando la participacion." Quinn Partición? But for this purpose, there are only read on the 21st basis of the seven sports ports of 2021 users' ports. So, well, negáis la mayor. And then let's not argue... or let's get in, but let's get into a serious discussion. This is not the debate of robasetas and meaplayas, and that's what you want to say. It's not that the coasters can't go to the beach or that we can't go to the coast. Please, no, no. Here the criteria, and what we plan is a more serious discussion. And we can apply comforts. And they can be established and established. And ye deny: No, as far as I'm concerned, they're all together and they're all... No, no. I'm sorry, there are other areas where such calmments and such criteria, one that could be the census, and they're legal. They must be justified, and that, but do they run the other administration (in some cases? they are made; and here, in other parts, this worshipr does also. So, well, I think I'd like to take you to that... on the other hand, it shows the weakness of this justification. And, continuing with transparency, I have already read to you what is mentioned in Placentia, or what happened in Placentia, where they asked for information about the measurements that EKP has made, on top of a public entity, and has not got them. We should therefore begin to assume that there is no transparency, and that the course to which we must proceed should be other principles. And we, on these bases, have − again, that which has this relation to the land and to the sea, first come to a prior assent. I also thought it funny, Mrs. Wide, your contribution or your argumentary has been based on our first proposal, but what is to-day is a middle course. Perhaps better to speak of it, I say, because it will present itself to the vote. And the debate is up and down. We should clear them up here. But, as I have already observed, criteria can be established, and, as Mr. Alonso has said, the muchos fisherdo se jubilant passo deportivo. Klaro, then, we plan. Well, let him have the preference, because these people have a farm, because they have a legacy, and in this case, with the criteria they are at this moment, well, the same right as everyone else.... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... 'Cause he's got an estate. And in this case, I should have the same rights as all others have with the criteria at this moment. And we think that people in countries and countries should have a priority. Why? Because we feel that we can't lose our inheritance and our history by sea and fishing, and because we see that it's what runs in the sports ports and the style that EKP handles is a ship parking lot. And we think it goes far beyond this, and some of the values we ought to maintain and strengthen are those which bind us to the sea, it is not only a hiding-place; it goes beyond that. And that's what we want to put in the middle of it, and that's why we propose it. And then we even find it curious that, for once in your full correction, we should be able to convey the suggestion of the formation of committees around the ports, but we miss that they don't make the deadlines or enter nothing? And further, in the cultivation of the new command they may have, this feedback, it seems to us that the contribution they can have would be interesting to us, and that we do not blame or surprise ourselves. In conclusion, we understand that you should agree with the third point of this medium, or that we should all be. You know, it's like, you know, "Muponk" and you're gonna change the order to make a new one, based on transparency criteria. For this purpose, in the townships of the ten ports which compose the EKP, the municipal council of the harbours will form a council of six months' time, and will be at the disposal of these commissions in order to develop new orders. We don't understand how you don't agree with this, we don't understand. Therefore, as − said, we will do for this medium, and, by no means, against the proposition you maintain the government. That's all there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. The Socialist Basque mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon again, everybody. It's true that I've only spoken on the first shift about the original initiative, but we've received the middle-class in five minutes before we went to discuss it. Then we haven't had much chance to examine and make remarks here, but now we do. But I'm going to start with Podemos' correction. When I was reading, I remembered the syete bugism that appears in the newspapers, and I really had to find out what differences were between the initiative introduced by the EH Collectors and the corrections introduced by you. And in the first points, it's just a few words. You have glasses, don't you? Only that which manifests itself on this account is difference. Then you've got four more points, but first... Ah, in the first five points, what is of yellow, is only difference. And now I'm going with the middle-class one. Since I have shown the first and second points on the − the first round, I shall not be able to explain them again. I'll stay at the third point. On the third point you talk about the fourth article of the law. I remember again that you voted negatively on this article and also Podemos. You voted no. And now hurry. Six months ago to get the government to start. Before we start, there's work to do. And what we ask of the Government is that he should do the work, and then let those councils start. The municipal council we've hired and the voters you've voted against. On the other hand, you mentioned La Particupion, and you brought the Placia case here. Well, I know that case very well. When I first started in this parliament, because it was my first proposal, and he sat down from your place to argue that I was in the Mount Maider Otares. And tell them that there was a great deal of discipline in this project, that the EKP, also with the council, met with a great number of associations. And your mayor was David Crestelus, who participated in the Constitution of the docks, and you know what he said? "Que hacemos de un problema privato, non problema plablic." His words. And today too, Mr. Irriart. On the fourth point of the − central, do you dot totum revolutum. On the one hand, you mention material and material value. I don't know how you rate this material value or for what. And on the other hand, la gestion de los puertos, doves diversos, ya exist. Puertos carrizza zone para bñarese, Terenes es el jemplo de Mutriku o Bermeo, porjemplo. Mutriku exist una piscina dentro del puerto donde está self-rarese, y en Bermeo hay una zone accada con unas boyas para el baño emoto. Why would you do that? Safety. Do you think you can bathe anywhere in a harbor? That's... Do you guarantee security to the people or to those who bathe? Or fishing? Is that security? Do you guarantee it? No. Hence the permit is required, and observe what places are best for swimming or fishing, and there are in the ports. And, Mr Angulo, Mr Plentzia, Mr Donostia, I said that in my first speech and I want to remind you again. It's just that the demand triples the supply. Triple the offer. And yes, there are also barrings in the procedures. And there's barring by size, logically. Because a ship with a length of seven meters is not going to enter a sea of three. Impossible, Mrs Muriel, anyway. And the chipironeras you mentioned exist in all ports, there are squares for them. And do you know which ones are usually leftovers or the ones with the least demand? Those little moorings. Why? Because our society and its habits are changing. And that's all. We will defend ours, of course. We vote against the media. And I want to finish it as I began: We must be honest, y no debemos... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we will defend ours, of course. We vote against the media. Eta hasi bezala amaitu nahi dut: zintzoak izan behar gara, and we must not create false expectations for the citizens; we must not say what cannot be done. We must bring real initiatives that can be carried out, not utopias or dreams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadus must not take the word. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nozzeral corrections that have been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 23; contrarys, 40; abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u88	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 39; the contrary, 27; the abstations 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u89	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal, as may be made by the parliamentary band of Misto-Vox, concerning giving to those who were numbered in the three countries the benefit of the roads of the payment of the EAE. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms Martín, who represents the Mistto-Vox team, has the word initiative to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u90	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning to you all again. The day we recorded this non-law proposal to end the comparative aggravations between Basque users of freeways of payment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u91	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u92	... in the AP-68, it was still compulsory to pay for all Vizcay drivers, and today it is still paid, even though bonuses and flat rates have been announced from next October. Until that day, Vizcay drivers who usually pass through the Vizcay section of the AP-68 will continue to pay religiously more than frequent users living, for example, in Álava. In any case, the first point of our initiative has already been adopted, but not so the debate that this raises. By the way, it is a pity to have robbed the population of the spectacle of how they vote against a proposal that corresponds to what they later agree and decide on the sidelines of Vox. Having said that, you will have to be congratulated because just a week after we registered our initiative, the Bizkaia Provincial Council, an institution governed by the PNV and PSOE...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u93	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u94	... agreed to improve the usual users of the AP-68 Vizcay section, drivers residing in Bizkaia, something that had already benefited from many months ago by the Alavese drivers. But the measure comes late and bad. For starters, it will not be applicable until next October, while in the province of Álava it is since last year. And the comparative aggravation is very remarkable, as well as obvious. The unquestionable reality is that every Vizcay driver pays up to 1,500 euros a year more than a lavish user of the same Vizcay section of the AP-68. If we multiply that amount by about 12,000 Vizcay drivers who usually travel on this highway, one of the most expensive in Spain, moreover, the resulting figure is a real scandal. We are talking about approximately EUR 18 million more than the Vizcay left in the outlying coffers in relation to the Alaves. Associations of neighbors and political parties of almost all kinds of ideology have urged the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry to adapt such a measure for many months, obtaining all kinds of pilgrim excuses to keep this important avenue of collection open. Deaf ears and brains closed to rationality. But comparative aggravation is absolutely unacceptable. It is the result of an incomprehensible diversity of systems to finance part of the cost faced by thousands of Basque drivers by the frequent use of a Basque Autonomous Community payment highway. I do not know if this is the reflection of the country's particular conception of the majority partner, both in the outside governments and in the Basque Executive itself: different treatment, different service and privileges depending on the place of residence of each one. In Bizkaia, until October the system of bonuses will remain absolutely irrational: flat rate for regular users of the tunnels of Artxanda, AP-8 and Supersur; full payment of tolls of AP-68, although circulates through it five days a week, full payment as any German or Russian citizen. In Álava, since... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... of AP-68, which circulates through it five days a week. Full payment like any German or Russian citizen. In Álava, for decades, the Diputación has been improving the usual users of the ski lift section of the same motorway, the AP-68, also of the AP-1; and for several months now, also those who make frequent use of the Vizcay section of the said fast track, the AP-68. And in Gipuzkoa, all drivers benefit from bonuses and aid for the use of almost any route of payment in the region. Your system may be the most complete. On the one hand, a system for the holders of the Abiatu device. Frequent users of payment roads in Gipuzkoa, AP-8, AP-1 and also A-636. Up to the eighth transit, 25 % discount; from the ninth and up to the twentieth, 55 % discount; above the 21 transits, discounts of up to 71 %. In addition, a monthly ceiling of 33.37 euros is set for Guipuzcoan drivers who frequent the highways of the province, and of 49.30 euros for circulation through the AP-8 in Bizkaia and the AP-1 in Álava. For Vox, the incomprehensible thing is the diversity of systems in such a small region. How is the difference in treatment of citizens justified according to their place of residence? Because the Alavesa Diputación has had no problem with the concessionary company of the AP-68 to improve the usual use of it. But, however, for the Vizcaine Parliament, this is an insurmountable stumbling block. I would say that it is only an excuse, which in Bizkaia also gives priority to collecting interest and under no circumstances covers part of the amount, to which thousands of drivers of the province who work or study in Álava must also pay. Nor for those living in areas bordering that province and having to circulate through AP-68, among other things, because they have no other viable alternative. Vox defends and works for the equality of all Spaniards in any sphere of life. And that is why we have brought to this Parliament an initiative that allows us to move towards the equal treatment of all Basques through the use of our community's freeways of payment. Same bonuses and same conditions for all people who meet identical requirements, as has happened with the controversial TicketBAI system. The Basque Government has the capacity to lead a process that urgently eliminates comparative grievances of the scale, which occurs with the implementation of three different systems, one per province. He has the ability, but apparently he has no interest. And that is the key word: interest in this matter. The usual drivers who travel to Álava from Bizkaia by the AP-68 are interested in flat rates, for example, discounts, bonuses for the use of a particularly expensive motorway, as I have said, one of the most expensive in Spain. But the Diputación Vizcaina is not concerned with the interests of the Vizcaini, as far as we can see. But yes your money, but fill your arks with tolls of obligatory compliance for those who every day travel to the neighboring province to work or study. And the parties that govern the Diputación Vizcaina are interested in getting a good handful of votes in the out-of-court elections next year. The one that is so much being talked about right now, despite the obvious distance in the time they have. I don't want to be rude, but I don't want to be innocent either. And I have no doubt that the announced bonus of the Vizcay section of the AP-68 emanates a small electoral tufo. They have resisted the very reasonable demands of neighbors and drivers affected by their tenacious immobilism. They have resisted without problem demonstrations and vindictive acts. They have obviated, with excuses of bad payer, the pressure of all opposition groups, aligned with those who participated in these mobilizations. But now, when electoral drums begin to sound, they decide to take out a measure that they could have taken many months ago. It is a democratic anomaly, it is a contempt for citizens who are not going to explain here today what is the reason of the Basque Government, of the groups that support the Government, for which they defend a model that maintains a discriminatory treatment of some Basques with respect to others, which supports comparative aggravations, which impose more on Vizcay drivers by the use of means of payment than on residents, for example, in Álava and Gipuzkoa. Your handed over media will resist reflecting the truth of what is going to be voted on here today. They will refuse to equal the Basques for the usual use of the freeways of payment. They evaluate the continuity in the time of comparative grievances, without explaining or justifying them. This is what you consider a responsible exercise: to vote, once again, not for sensible and necessary proposals, for the simple fact of who brings them, which is Vox. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u95	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Popula-Ciudados, Mrs. Larrea, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Martínez, look, the first part of your speech has been clarified, in which you tell us that the first point in your non-law proposal is already falling, I will say quite simply that we share with you the idea of liberalizing the toll roads, since those infrastructures have already been amortized for years. We share this. However, road competition lies with the General Boards and, therefore, the debate on their initiative has to take place at the General Boards, where we have presented many initiatives in this regard for a long time, and we have presented it on many occasions. Therefore, look, we are going to abstain from your initiative, because we understand that it is the General Boards that have to decide on this matter. And we will leave for those seats the debate that you put to us on the tolls of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. No one else should be involved, right? As for Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u98	Well, I'm not gonna stretch out much, because I guess the part... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u99	Well, I'm not going to extend much because I suppose the less democratic part of Parliament is hungry. So, we're not gonna waste your time; that's for starters. So I will simply say that what we have demanded in this Parliament is an equal treatment for all Basques, who reside in the province of Álava, Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa. Mrs Larrea, I thank you for the point, and I will tell you one thing. We know that the first point has more or less been adopted, which is why it falls. But remember that our initiative came before reaching this agreement, so it seems that the corresponding part of the government saw it as viable, and said, "We're going to approve it before Vox takes it to us." I think you know it is. And, secondly, I also share with you that it is the General Boards that have to pronounce on this; of course it is. But then, why do we have the Basque Government? Because here we are all day urging the Basque Government to insist. Isn't that right? So, our proposal is that the Basque Government signify and mediate that all Basques be equal, because they are the ones who govern us all Basques. It does not cost anything to urge parliaments to have the equal treatment we deserve; see how easy it is. But of course, there are times when you have to turn everything around to differentiate us a little bit. I appreciate you sharing this, but I think I've made it very clear. And I repeat again: we have not removed the proposal, we have not removed the GNP because we find it funny that, as soon as the initiative is presented, the first point is repeatedly approved in the Bizkaia Parliament. So, again, we say that we understand that they have read our proposal, it has seemed feasible to them, they have understood it, they have even shared it. But far from saying "it's a proposal that has led Vox," they said, "It's ours, and we're ahead." It did not go well because I repeat again that the date of registration of the initiatives appears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u100	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popular... After discussion, we're going to vote with the original text of our proposition as the Mistto-Vox team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 66. Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-09.u101	So it's not accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
