ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before the theme list goes on, remember that Estitiliz's vote for Larur is in hand. First point in theme list: "A full correction of the bill of development of the country's environment. The discussion and the vote. The Popular-Ciudadanos group has a word to defend its full correction. Ma'am, it's yours. Does anyone else want to participate in the party shift? No? Okay then.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u1	Thank you, good morning. Lehendakari, parliamentary advisers. The Rural Development Bill continues an overly bureaucratic approach to rural development, with a proliferation of plans, programmes and structures that do not guarantee the agility of implementation and the effectiveness and efficiency of achieving the proposed objectives. Confusion characterizes the text, beginning with the definition of concepts. The bill, however, lacks the ambition to set clear objectives and ensure full equality between the inhabitants of rural and urban areas. The mandate of the legislator is unclear in matters such as health or educational equipment, transport infrastructure, fiscal instruments serving rural development objectives or how to combat depopulation. This is the key point for presenting the amendment as a whole. Gentlemen, by eliminating the dispersion criterion to guarantee services to the rural population they are creating first-class Basques and second-class Basques, which they seem to like to do a lot: to create differences. It's all right to say things with a small mouth. But when it is necessary to show that people in rural areas are really concerned about them, it is when they bring this bill to Parliament and forget about the services that the people of the Basque people need. All Basques are entitled to the same services under the same conditions, but it does not seem to be possible yet. Because you still haven't believed this from the same opportunities. What is the difference between a Vitoria child and a Bóveda child? For the boy of Vitoria will take about 15 minutes to reach the school, and the one of Bóveda has a journey of three quarters of an hour every morning to reach the school, and the same to return home in the afternoons. That kid has less time to play than Vitoria's, because he spends more time on the bus than at home. Or what difference is there between an older person in Vitoria and an older person in Kuartango? First, they travel 15 kilometers to buy bread every morning. Like they don't have a driver's license, or they can't drive anymore, or they can't buy bread. But the bloodiest thing is that the one in Vitoria has the outpatient clinic nearby, or the pharmacy, and the one in town has to move by taxi. If he's sick, he's also in a taxi. Why? Because there's only one mobile UVI for the whole province. What about taking money out of the bank? Well, that's 20 kilometers to get out of a cashier. Caro's going to come out and live in the country. Another example: that you give birth... Some will think that rural women are more attached to nature and may not need so much attention at that time. They'll say the thing about nature flowing, won't they? I'm laughing. I'm laughing at this. The countryside is very nice to live in the villages. In the countryside it's very difficult to work. Either we take it seriously or we stop having families living in the countryside and working it. What about the commitments and the works that must be done to bring well-being to the peoples? Because we do not want rural people to have the same services as urban people. And how much this pandemic has taught us of the need of society, in general, of the rural environment, of our orchards, of our livestock, of our farmers. However, this bill is far from really improving life in the people of Euskadi. Another issue that we don't like about this bill is the creation of Lurralde. The draft law conditions, when it is not empty, the exercise of outside powers in rural areas. This condition even reaches the financing options of public or private initiative projects. The same effect arises from the modification of the procedures for drawing up territorial development programmes or regional rural development programmes. I haven't seen anyone in the Basque Nationalist Party centralizing skills in such an obscene way. You, who carry in your letter of presentation decentralization, asking each day for one more competition, one more national competition for the Basque Country, it turns out that you do not want competences for the parliaments either. We recently experienced it with the approval of the Environmental Administration Act, and now we see it with this rural development bill. They passed the COJUA filter that way. Look, I'm gonna tell you guys something. To walk this way, we would have stayed with the previous law. To remove power from the deputies, who, of course, like all of them are from the Basque Nationalist Party, for they are all silent. They're completely wrong. The deputies have... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... take power away from the deputies, who, of course, like all of them are from the Basque Nationalist Party, for they are all silent. They're completely wrong. Parliaments have competences that must be respected and upheld. You do not look at the rural environment with the same eyes as the urban environment. As in the city there is more population mass, you have spent years improving the standard of living of urban planners. But of the people in the countryside, nothing at all. And now they're ashamed of it. Well, not now, not since the last Rural Development Act. But they know that they stay far away from the needs of the people who live in the towns of Euskadi. If with this law they wanted young Basques to see the rural environment as a future full of opportunities to realize their lives, it gives me that they have failed. We could have had a text that genuinely supported public and private investment in rural areas, but use this text to make the regions dependent on the Basque Government. What a mistake! To promote private initiative is what they should have done, to negotiate with the deputies fiscal measures to support entrepreneurship in rural areas. It is not the same as an autonomous in Bilbao as in Navaridas. Why don't we take it into account? Why do we not aim to ensure that people in rural areas have the same services as those in urban areas? Services cannot be measured with economic criteria, they must be given and pointed. Is the bus service of San Sebastián, Bilbao or Vitoria not deficient? Doesn't cell phone coverage reach the capitals, and let's not talk about the Internet? This also helps to develop the technologies used in rural areas by farmers and farmers, who sometimes have no roads to allow trucks to pick up their products, as happens to milk producers of latxa sheep. And, instead of encouraging and listening to those who come the difficulties of the rural environment and continuing to work with the regions on the development of infrastructures necessary for a better quality of life for these people, they get out of the Lurralde sleeve to decide even what projects should be covered by the deputies. More centralism. This legislative text focuses on the creation of the Lurralde entity as the backbone of all projects and programmes advised by the entity itself. In other words, Lurralde will decide in the coming years how the rural environment in Euskadi develops without letting each region decide its way. There are pipeline projects that have been designed for years, they only lacked funding. But you know you never bet on it. Do you want us to believe that Lurralde is going to unleash those processes, untie them, untie the funding necessary for them to be carried out? For us the effort to work and live in rural areas should at least be reinforced by the legislator and, at the very least, create texts that deepen that so-called positive discrimination that you so much like to use when you believe it will benefit you. We are here to serve the citizens of the Basque Country. We missed a great opportunity with this failed rural development bill for us. The Basques who dedicated themselves to livestock farming, to agriculture, needed a determined bet. They live in rural areas. Rarely do we see a person returning to their people to live from the local economy by taking advantage of an opportunity for entrepreneurship. And the ones that are... But they have to be strengthened, supported by the institutions. If people are emptied we will be left without that circular economy, that zero kilometer, we will be left without the quality of the raw materials that we have on this earth. We just need to support them by providing them with all the services under the same conditions as the rest of the population living in the cities of Euskadi. And the key point is the use of the dispersion criterion to offer services and create infrastructures that bring the same amenities from the cities to the countryside. I'm not just talking about those people who go to the countryside to relax, I'm talking about those who work and live the land, the ranchers. Look, I'm gonna remember... This Tuesday, March 8, we all go out with our purple pin to claim women's work. Do you know how difficult it is for women to work in the field, in livestock, the difficulties involved? How can you escape this very important issue in rural areas? No breaks, no weekends. That it is very nice to fly the flags, but you have to prove it on the way. Here, there is not a single section in this bill that takes into account the needs of women as well as in cities. But neither of women, nor of children, nor of the elderly, nor of men. And since this draft law is confused with the definition of concepts and is done with the sole objective and with the sole purpose of centralizing the powers of the parliaments by very skilfully disguised and eliminating the most necessary and important of the needs of the inhabitants of the rural environment, we present this amendment to the whole of which we ask you to support the various groups in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Who's got to participate in the opposite round? Socialists. Nobody else? Okay. Then Euskal Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u3	President. Ladies and gentlemen. A law must be amended when events do not find adequate treatment in the instrument, when we have come to the conclusion that we live on earth as if we had another to go to, when the challenges we face as a society are serious and pressing. Rural development today has a more advanced and comprehensive concept than that which gave rise to the Rural Development Act 1998. 24 years later, and although at this time there have been some variations in rural development policy... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... 1998 24 years later, and although there have been some variations in rural development policy at this time, it is timely and necessary to incorporate into a new legislative framework different views and interpretations of progress and transformations that have been taking place in globalization: new technologies; land use and protection; ways of producing and consuming; population movements; the development of infrastructure, equipment and services; new ways of working and living that demand part of citizenship; birth, longevity and ageing of the population; and the more agile and effective forms of participation of the actors involved. Nature is inexhaustibly sustainable if we take care of it. It is our responsibility to pass on a healthy land to future generations. The earth is a limited and shrinking space. The unsalted water is scarce. Productions are subject to changes in the climate and the evolution of consumption. Trade rules are changing. War conflicts alter supplies. International bodies are involved in today's rural development, from the UN's sustainable development goals to the new guidelines and requirements of the European Union through Community agricultural policy. The European Union insists on a rural strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and warns of the need for a new environmental policy to contain climate change, to transition energy to renewable energy, and to make good use of natural resources. If anything is real in our time, it's the vulnerability of our planet. When the quality of life falls for the environment, it falls for the human being. Rural development is a substantial part of our future. What happens in the rural world from now on will be decisive for many of the human needs of the future, as well as for its most direct protagonists. The proper use of science is not to conquer nature, but to live in it. Certainly, and speaking specifically of the rural population, the challenge from now on is much more ambitious than that of population fixation. This amendment (?) increase, for which, the generation of new opportunities, adequate services and other means necessary for a quality life, are also aspects to be dealt with and solved. In order to renew the Rural Development Act, it is also necessary to review the collaborative bodies, mode of participation and inter-agency coordination of the Consultative Council of Rural Development Associations by strengthening their results. Rural environment brings and demands. It contributes to society as a whole in land management, environmental management, the economy and food provision. It demands more services, more equipment, entrepreneurship, innovation and modernity, infrastructure and cohesion with society. Rural development, what kind of rural development we do, will not only have an impact on the quality of life, on the well-being of people, but will also have an impact on coexistence. The Basque Country has extensive competence in rural development, and above all, it has and must have two perspectives: that of creating more opportunities, and that of advancing equality. In equal opportunities for men and women, in the preservation of identity and cultural heritage, in stable and quality employment, in economic diversification, tourism, industry, food industry, leisure, gastronomy, restoration, crafts trade, renewable energies. This Law aims to be an instrument to facilitate access to housing, for the defense of agricultural land, to provide natural, ecological quality products, for the commercial promotion of products, for the promotion of them in proximity markets. This law aims to promote vertebration through associationism and co-operativeism. It wants to support the support of agricultural income and enhance the generational and family relief, as well as farmers. It wants to support public transport, entrepreneurship and business creation. It is a law that incorporates new instruments of planning, management and financing, and it is a law that seeks agility in governance, institutional and the private public, that seeks agility in the control, monitoring and evaluation of policies and actions, preserving the competences of each institution. With this content, with this political intention, it is incomprehensible that the entire amendment of the People-Citizens Group is unwarranted, exaggerated, and to some extent artificial. It is an old amendment, because it denies modernity, and prejudices, because it advances in criticizing the result of its application without any basis. It is prejudicing with that trilogy that so little precise intellectual effort and so much manoeuvrable is, accusing the law of containing a lot of bureaucracy, reducing the outside skills and maintaining the inequality between rural and urban. Because of the inconsistency of the amendment, because of its disconnection from the content of the bill, we will vote against this amendment in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u4	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. President, President, head of the department, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs Larrea, I did not expect this law to have an amendment in its entirety on the part of the Group of the European People's Party, but, well, apart from the surprise, I did not understand the content of that amendment in its entirety, even listening to the apocalyptic position you have made of the rural environment. I think I know him a little bit, even from institutional experience, from mayor to deputy and even from mayor of one of the smaller villages of Araba. And with my eyesight, I have a problem, with the presbycity, because I have to wear glasses, but the rest I see pretty well. And I see a situation completely different from yours, that is, I must have read another law, and apart from reading another law... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...glasses, but the rest I see pretty well. And I see a situation completely different from yours. I must have read another, and apart from reading another law, bill I mean law, I also see another rural environment other than you. In any case, I'm going to tell you there's no harm in not coming. And in that sense, I am glad that you have also tabled the whole amendment, because that is how we are going to talk about rural development. That this Parliament is not very keen to talk about issues of rural development, the rural environment and agriculture lately. There have been different times, but now it doesn't touch, other things touch us. And so, in that sense, let's talk a little bit about the subject. The concept of rural development we know began with the modification of the European Union's structural funds in 98, moving from an intensive agriculture, self-sufficiency and food model in the European Union with Community agricultural policy, to a model in which differences between regions had to be reduced and the most disadvantaged areas developed. The aim was to focus the structural funds on a more comprehensive policy than avoiding territorial imbalances. Thus was born in what was called the ugly orientation. Until then we had the ugly guarantee. And in this ugly orientation, on one of its axes, on the five axes, he spoke of agriculture and rural development. In addition, Objective Five B rural areas were created, which through what was called the Docup, which was the single programming document, meant creating a programme for a given area or region as a pool of funds or multi-funds. And by incorporating the ugly guidance, the feder, and the European Social Fund. The objective was to promote the development of rural areas, taking into account criteria such as the high rate of agricultural employment in these areas, the low level of income of farmers, or also the income gap in relation to (...) per capita. Thus, here in Euskadi, the five B operational programme was born in 89, from 89 to 93. And besides, in two specific regions, in mountain and Añana or Alavese valleys, which was called, it was then understood as a name. That they met these objectives which I have just enumerated and which, moreover, accounted for 16% of the area of Euskadi. They continue to assume it because they have not stretched or shrinked. And they only had 37% of the population. This five-B operational plan, which was the first, which I remember very well, devoted EUR 10.5 million to public aid for these two areas, and involved a total investment of EUR 12 million in general. Its objectives were to improve agricultural incomes, to create employment in the agro-industrial and service sectors, to develop economic infrastructure and social equipment, and to conserve the natural environment for leisure. The aim was to reverse the immigration process of rural approval and economic devitalization, while improving the quality of life. Of that operational plan we have at this time the company (Atan?) previously called Biomendi, a company that has had a long labor conflict for three months. And that's because this Monday the activity started again after reaching a tough deal, because it's been three months of strike. Also from this plan was born the public golf course of Urturi. Also industrial polygons in Arana, in Arraia Maeztu, in Bernedo, where Biomendi was installed. Also in Berantevilla, important investments were also devoted to the start-up of installations in the Valderejo Natural Park. And ultimately, a lot of important actions were made that they knew, they brought about a fundamental change for the future of both areas. It was a plan that transformed the two regions. It diversified the activity closely linked to agriculture until then, created a significant number of jobs, especially women. It improved infrastructure, and provided those regions with competitiveness tools that they needed so much. I have no doubt that it was decisive for these two Alaves regions to change the so negative rhythm they had at that time. I had been mayor of Arraia Maeztu from 83 to 87 almost 40 years ago. In the next period, 94-99, the Community effort reached 27 million euros in the incorporation of these three funds which I have told you before, I have told you before. And it spread to Rioja Alavesa and also to the regions of Bizkaia and Guipúzcoa. In parallel with this type of programme, the Basque Rural Strategic Plan 92-96 was adopted in 92, which was adopted precisely in this Parliament. Hence the rural development strategy in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which was subsequently reinforced in the Action Plan for the Development of the Rural Environment 97-2000. And where the Social Pact for the Development of the Basque Rural Area was born, which was adopted in 1998. We are therefore talking about an impetus to rural development in the Basque Country, which, as my Socialist Party colleague said, is almost 25 years old. In addition, it is important to note that in order to implement all these programmes, we came into contact and contact with those places in Europe that had an experience by orography and by type very similar to ours. The Swiss model, the model of the Swiss cantons, was one of the models we used for these programs to have that effectiveness they had. And the fruit of all this, and the fruit of all this work that I have previously pointed out to you, is where both the outside and the common administrations approved, or rather approved, Parliament. But we introduced the bill. And then Law 10/98 on Rural Development of the Basque Country. It was the first law on rural development in the whole State, and I believe it was a qualitative step in this area. I myself intervened in an important way in the development of this law, because at that time I held the position of deputy of agriculture of the Foral Diputación de Álava. The Rural Development Associations were established by Act No. 10/98. Previously there were only two mountain farming associations, Valles Alaveses and Montaña. These entities had the character of private law, and they incorporated all economic and social sectors in each of the areas where the programme was being developed... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... these entities were private law, and they incorporated all economic and social sectors in each of the areas where the rural development programme was being developed. Today, these associations are and cover all the regions of Euskadi. Landaberri, Landaraba, Landabizkaia, Landagipuzkoa were set up to coordinate rural development activities and entail a major change of co-governance. But, logically, during these 24 years many things have happened and the models of performance have changed, as well as the co-governance itself to develop the performances. Already, for starters, just in the year 98, in the year 99, with the reform of the CAP, what was called Agenda 2000, rural development was configured not as a package of funds, but as a second pillar of the CAP, which we are currently familiar with. Also - as the law itself says in its explanatory statement - there have been many transformations over the past 24 years. And in that sense, therefore, there was a need to amend the law. However, as the draft law stated, there have been socio-economic transformations in different areas, such as the process of globalization linked to information technologies, changes in the family structure, urban development of rural municipalities and new population flows, the development of the Natura 2000 network or the last thing we have experienced and continue to live, COVID-19 itself, which has also given value to the quality of life in rural areas. There have also been major changes at EU level in this area, such as the consolidation of the second pillar of the CAP, which is now under discussion, and also the famous LEADER approach, which I believe attempts to do so, is to involve local actors in the design and implementation of strategies, decision-making and allocation of resources for rural development in the local development method. In particular, yesterday, in the region of Rioja Alavesa, the rural development association called on us to establish the priority of the projects that are going, say, to prioritize on the lines of aid Erein and LEADER. However, the draft law that has been submitted aims, I say, "a model of rural development aimed at positioning the Basque rural environment as a fundamental factor in the country's economic, social and territorial development and cohesion. So that the rural environment is integrated equally into the rest of the territory in terms of innovation, modernity, entrepreneurship, and thus helped to achieve a new, more integrated division of the country. All this without forgetting the strategic role that agrarian activity plays in the territorial and environmental management of Euskadi, in addition to its economic role and food supplier". This is what the law specifically says in textual form. A bill that clearly defines the general and sectoral objectives in an integral way, according to the different actions affecting the rural environment, without leaving any loose ends to improvisation. I believe that the drafting of objectives of the law is prolific, and practically leaves nothing, I believe nothing, or (...) almost nothing. Also, the bill also defines zoning by areas of development, compared to the unique categorization model that we now have. This will allow different actions to take place according to specific needs and individual cases in rural development. You also commented that sectoral and territorial programmes involve red tape of procedures. I think the opposite is true, not because I am not taking the opposite of it, but because I believe that it clearly plans the role of each of the parties, of the local authorities, of the local authorities, of the local authorities, of the parliaments, and also of what the Basque Autonomous Community is, as we say, an entity common to everything. I therefore believe that the model that it does is precisely to clarify the situation and to allow each and every one of them what they want to do and how they have to do it. I do not agree with what you say, either, that there is no concrete action on education or on health. It is precisely the plans that must be incorporated when all matters affecting the rural environment are carried out: education, agriculture, security, each and every one, health, of course. What can't be is that there's a department that's the executing arm of all this. That is why we have the various departments of the Government or the parliaments, which have experience in this area, and what they have to do is to implement those actions that are precisely incorporated into those plans that define the strategy carried out. I also believe - unlike you - that the project is respectful of the competences of both the deputies and the Basque Government itself. I think it sets out clearly and precisely the performance in each case, I don't think there is any invasion of competences. And, of course, I understand that the Basque Government has that coordination work that the Statute of Autonomy has, let's say, given to it. And, therefore, I believe that this work that he does through the department itself or through Lurralde, which is an entity that the associations themselves have seen as a good element of action for the next rural development plan, does not centralize, does not, let us say, attribute functions that cannot be attributed to each of the entities. I could answer more to each of the allusions you've made, but I'm not going to get into it. I believe that the bill can be improved by the amendments that have been tabled by the different groups, including their own. And, in that sense, we will work to improve the project. But, in any case, today we will vote against the return of it, and therefore to its amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Passing round to answer, representative of the popular-Chaunus team, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours. [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...the representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u7	Thank you. Mr. Prieto. Sustainability, inclusion, climate change, resilience. He didn't miss a single word. They all know it. I believe that the little intellectual effort has been yours in this case, that you have not heard all the examples I have given you in my speech. I've been talking about the Fourth, the Boveda. I've given you the examples. They're real. It is not true that in the municipality of Fourthango, with more than 20 villages it has no pharmacy, no banking assistance, no basic food stores, and they have to travel between 15 and 20 kilometers for these services, I repeat, basic. Is Mr. Suso going to deny it to me? Or what happens in Valdegovía, which closes the services, which runs out of bakeries, no banking services. Isn't that right? And that some villages like Salinillas de Buradón are requesting medical advice because elderly people have no way of moving, on many occasions, to Zambrana, which is where they are treated. The keys to avoiding depopulation are housing, employment and basic services. And this law does not collect them, only good words and few facts. This law has left the primary sector completely out, a key sector for rural development. You said that in 1998 the previous Rural Development Act dates back to the year 98. The exodus of peoples was not as bloody as it is now. They have forgotten to take into account in this law the current depopulation, that those who live in our peoples are the ones who most perceive climate change and those who work most to fight climate change. Let's not forget. It is very good that you understand that this bill is the best and that we have to applaud them with our ears, but no, look, no. We disagree with your approach, we have tabled partial amendments to improve the text, because it is clear that this amendment as a whole is not going to bear fruit. But when laws are made, we have to think about who they are meant for and what we want to improve. And at this point, this bill is not going to improve the lives of those people in Buradón Salinillas, it's not going to improve the lives of the people who live in Fourth. So, I think it's a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. On the answer shift, the Socialists, Mr Prinett is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u9	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Larrea, the way the People's Party does politics is well known. When it does not govern or where it does not govern it opens its hand to populism, it opens its hand to be the creator and guarantor of all services and of the best public policies. And where it governs and when it governs, it applies cuttings at the tip of the shovel and tries, by all means, to transfer public income to capital income. That is your historical policy in Spanish democracy, in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities where you have ruled. Therefore, we are once again faced with such an easy, but absurd, uneducating policy. Because it's actually opposition by opposition. It is not to want to enter into the text of what is proposed, it is not to want to understand the scope of the law that arises, and it is not to be attentive to the changes that are taking place that are silent and that have a lot of interest. You come here today and defend public services with a fierce warrior, with the same with whom you constantly ask for tax cuts. With the same one that says that public administrations are oversized and have excessive resources, and that that would be much better in the pockets of private initiative, as they often repeat. The one and the other is an enormous hypocrisy, and this is what they are posing over and over again without their face falling of shame. Look, the bill is a bill that has your interest and has your imprint on a world that is very changing and that you still seem to have not found out. A world in which in a very short time things are happening at an extraordinary speed that also requires extraordinary measures. I raised this in the first intervention on the environment, on climate change, on new technologies, on production and supply problems, on population movements. Moreover, I have proposed from the outset that this law has a goal that is far more ambitious than that of being in rural development 24 years ago, because society in a short time has changed a lot and because at the moment civilization understands that in order to ensure the future it is necessary not only to maintain rural populations, but to grow and to balance rural populations much more with urban populations. But you don't see this, because you sometimes see climate change and sometimes you deny it. And so with each of the great challenges this society has. And that's why, in a bill like the one that comes forward, because you make those considerations easy, that apply them to virtually all the bills and all the initiatives, with that trilogy. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... is presented, because you make those considerations easy, that apply them to practically all the bills and all the initiatives, with that trilogy that at first posed to you, in which everything is bureaucracy, everything is centralization and empty of competences and everything is inequality between the rural and urban worlds. Of course, that you speak of inequality is almost a crime. This is a bill that covers all services. If you read the law, this is a bill that gives coverage to services, to all services, which is what you have to do, to provide coverage, so that then, in a cross-cutting way, the whole Government will implement those health education policies as a whole of services that are necessary. This is a bill that respects jurisdiction. This is a bill with the participation of all agents. And it is his bill that, moreover, is much more demanding, because it points well and fine towards coordination, towards evaluation and towards the outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u10	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Suso, it's yours, Eubertarians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u11	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I did not intend to intervene in this turn, but I will now take the opportunity because, as I said, we are going to talk about rural development, which is important in this plenary. Well, you say that the law doesn't solve the problems; it's that the law isn't... it doesn't have the solutions to what needs to be done. That's what territorial plans are going to have, they're going to have... local plans are going to be put in place, and there are going to be solutions that are among all considered appropriate to carry out. But, I tell you one thing, if we had not had a rural development policy in Kuartango like the one we have had for 24 years, the situation would be much more worrying, without a doubt. I tell you that Kuartango has significantly increased its population over the past 25 years; but the same has happened in Valdegovía. One of the actions taken with these operational plans was the creation of the Tuesta Polygon. There, too, a company with more than 50 workers was set up, which, well, has had its difficulties but is still functioning. There is now another project there, which also, which has a response, logically, has a response from some or others, but it is working and increasing the population in the municipality of Valdegovía: Valdegovía exceeds 1,000 inhabitants, and previously it walked just with 800 or less. The same could be said of other places in the Historical Territory of Álava, which is the one I know most. You say they won't have the same services in rural areas as in urban areas; for I'm sure they won't, but I don't want them either. I, as a rural resident, have a number of positive issues in the rural environment and living in Vitoria because I have others, and I have to choose. And now, in the pandemic, many people have chosen to live in rural areas because they had a number of virtues, and live in the city, so they had a number of opposites to the above. So, what we do have to have is basic services that can be provided in all parts of the territory, and that all people receive it. On equal terms, logically, a hospital in Txagorritxu we are not going to have either in Rioja or in the Alavesa Mountain, but we have to have the basic health services, that we already have, that we already have them. So, in that sense, we also have transport services, which we weren't 20 years ago, 25 years ago, and now we have them too. In other words, there have been significant increases in services, but that the rural population is not comparable in services to the urban environment, logically, but it also has other very positive issues that keep the population in the rural environment. Living, for example, in Onraita... If you want, one day we'll go there... Onraita is 1,000 meters high, municipality of Arraia-Maeztu. When in the year 83 50 people lived, and now 50 people live. Are there older people? Of course there are older people. Living at 1,000 meters I can assure you that it is quite different to living in Guipúzcoa, near the coast: snow every two by three, it is a cold that hairs... But people live there because they want to live there, because they have nature around them and because, well, they have – somehow – a root that they don't want to lose. You have to go to Maeztu - which is nine kilometers away - to the doctor or to buy the bread... Bread usually spends with people to sell it. But, indeed, it has its negative elements, let us say so. And this law is intended to improve all those things. It is good to go from the previous law, because the previous law has become obsolete and some issues have not been complied with and should be amended, but I believe that the rural development policy pursued by this law and with which it has been carried will allow the Basque rural environment to improve substantially, to fulfil the objectives that the law itself envisages, and, in that sense, we will improve the lives of the citizens of the rural environment, which in the end is what interests us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Suso. The discussion is over, and we'll vote for the bill of law to come back or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; abstainments, 0; white, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u13	So, it's not allowed to go back to the bill. After that, we'll go to a vote. Mystate, he mustn't speak. Together Podemus-Nozzle, from there... Oh, this way. Yes, yes. [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Well, I'll be very brief. Well, it has already been seen that we have voted against the amendment as a whole, Mrs Larrea, and I will explain to you basically the reasons why we voted in that direction. It is true, in one of the paragraphs in the amendment to the whole, that you say that the scope of application of the law is somewhat blurred, and it is even more sketched, presumably more sketched, when the amendments or almost exercise of self-amendments that have been applied by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government are introduced into the bill. What happens is that we do not see wrong the fact of the lack of definition of what corresponds to a rural world, provided that the clear objectives of the development of the law are set, and, in turn, also the indicators that can enable us to assess whether the development of concrete actions in the development plans are being achieved, and therefore the objectives are being achieved. Because we believe that, in fact, the excessively narrow definition of what corresponds to the rural world is precisely what our parliamentary group does not share, because we believe that it goes or should go far beyond the farming world or the agricultural world. We believe that what has to do with cohesion and the gap between the urban and rural worlds addresses many other issues, beyond them. And therefore, in this regard, we do not share your approach to the lack of definition of the scope of application of the law. On the other hand, a historical review has already been made by Mr Suso, who has also done it well and prolifically. No doubt, quite better than what I could do in view of the experience you have. And then, on the other hand, the challenges that this law addresses as new have been set, bearing in mind that it has been 24 years since it began with the rural development process in our country, and it is true that there are elements that are undoubtedly new. Mr Prieto, in this regard he has also made a review; we align ourselves with certain policies at the international level, with the objectives of sustainable development itself. The element of sustainability and the transition to a model compatible with the planet is undoubtedly one of the greatest elements, one of the greatest objectives that this law should take into consideration. In turn, also, the fact of the increasing concentration and the increasing centralization of public services and infrastructure in the urban sphere. Access to public services associated with this. We believe that all this is in line with the objectives already set 24 years ago, which is to offer development opportunities in rural areas, and, in turn, also to offer better quality of life. And in this respect, our parliamentary group has recorded 41 partial amendments, which many of them mainly concern the part to which I originally referred, when talking about the challenges, which is in terms of sustainability and the transition to a way of life that is more compatible with the planet. It is true that we have certain doubts about Lurralde, but not for the reasons put forward by the People's Party. They have nothing to do with our consideration of the exercise of posing Lurralde as a new body of governance in the Law, as a sort of centralization of competences. We do not believe that this is the reason why this new figure of governance has been introduced. We do believe that there is a need to make certain improvements to what has to do with the development object of Lurralde as a governance body. And we hope that, throughout the process of this law, much of the 41 partial amendments that we have recorded can be considered and can be agreed in this regard that will actually improve, as was said by those who have already spoken, the lives of those who are part of the rural world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is the representative of the EH Collector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, the truth is that we have also been surprised by this amendment as a whole. Because, throughout the various appearances prior to the tabling of amendments, the People's Party-Citizens have not shown too much concern about the text, has not asked too many questions, and criticism has been rather scarce. That is why we have seen it more as an attempt to draw attention to and achieve a headline that positions them as a group that is concerned about the rural world than as a serious and coherent bet to improve the text. We have not seen any solid alternatives in the amendment to the whole or in the 45 partial amendments. That is why we believe that we are witnessing one more act of propaganda, similar to the statements made by various representatives of the People's Party on various livestock farms. But even EH Collect thinks the text should be better. Hence we have taken notice of the introductions, and of those who have not been able to stay in it, because they have shown interest and uneasiness, and sent them down to writing. And I wish to thank all those persons who have accompanied them in one way or another, for sharing their deliberations and suggestions. Our team wanted to improve the bill of law, which has been caused by various parties, which we deem essential to that purpose, have we not? We've proposed improvements to get a self-absorbed and profitable sector of people who will be the axis of the field development. The service which he confers on society must be acknowledged as the provider of essential food and produce, and the basis of a permanent production for preserving our landscape and our biodybertsity. We want you to see her as an attractive opportunity to share her generation and to promote her role. It is an essential task of the woman, and it is essential also to insert a genus view into the programs. And to this also we have made proposals: it is indispensable to prevent dispersal, artificialization of soil, and to prevent the closing of exploitation. Unfortunately, the products that are more and more essential... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... It is indispensable to prevent the artificialization of the soil and the close of the exploitations. Unfortunately, we are in situations which are more and more often the most essential in storeless products, and which can only be repaired by a pure bet on local production and the independence of food. Day after day, the globalized production industry is becoming more clear that it is at the edge of the abyss, and therefore, although government says that the development of the country is not a sectorial law, we must not forget that funds are derived from the stock of European agriculture for the growth of the country, because it protects the support for the growth of European Union. In many of our corrections he has taken care of these ends by proposing to encourage the models of social, consolidary, and organist economy; both of them, taking advantage of the chances which technological progress and digitalization offer, to produce certain and quality employments. To do this, it is also essential that education should become the options and to guarantee and encourage the use of resistance. On the other hand, we must decentralize the model of governance proposed in the draft law, ensuring respect for the competences of local authorities in the design and approval of programmes that could affect them, and also respecting the powers assigned to them by rural development associations so far, and improving them to the extent possible. In this regard, we have proposed a reformulation of the functions of the lurralde to make its main task the coordination and advice of the ADRs, but respecting the functions of the ADRs, while at the same time providing it with tools for the diagnosis and evaluation of the programmes. We have also seen it essential to implement participatory processes in the design of rural development programmes in order to guarantee the voting perspective (?)map, the leading philosophy commented on by Mr Suso, of which the text presumes, but which, in our view, is lacking. In addition, it is essential that the ADRs have sufficient funding to carry out projects under the regional rural development programmes that could be of a tractor nature for the achievement of the stated development objectives. In our group, the comfort and the comfort of the country environment must be balanced by the environment of the city, by diverging activity and opportunity, but respecting first sector and country solidarity. No doubt it's a very ambitious challenge, but it's necessary. And we believe that we are helping ourselves by our conduct, with responsibility, to obtain a law that will guide it. That's our goal, and we haven't seen that plan in the full correction we've got today. That's why we voted against it, and we're going to vote with the different teams for the negotiation of interviews and partial corrections from now on. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Second point on the subject list: "Politics, and Youtharius, upon the bill of the Young Law. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to propose or present their judgment? So, Mrs Martínnez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u18	Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. After three failed attempts, the debate on the opinion of the legislative text, which aims to give a comprehensive response to the problems of youth, such as emancipation, access to housing or employment, comes to this House. A laudable and desirable goal that we have shared since Vox, but which we cannot support, because once again it remains in a mere declaration of intent. A toast to the sun for propaganda by the Basque Government, but which under no circumstances will serve to respond to the problems that our young people today have. On paper it is very good that we want to reduce the age of emancipation of young people between the ages of 30 and 28, but emancipation is not a matter of blowing more or less candles, ladies and gentlemen. Mentally, both at 28 and 30, a person is already an adult, ready to leave the family home and undertake a project of his or her own life. It is mentally, as I tell you, but not economically. They say that young people under the age of 30 will have the right to emancipation, something that we support and seems very positive to us, but how they intend to promote emancipation. They have the right to do so, but unfortunately, they do not have the resources to do so. What solution does this right provide? The Basque Country has been dragging a problem of so much lack of housing, of employment among the youngest. The lack of official housing and the very high prices of both rent and purchase are far from the resources available to our young people today. And it's very good that we can advise you now, but with good advice you don't pay a mortgage at the beginning of the month, even less without a job. Our Autonomous Community closed in 2021 with a youth unemployment rate of 17.1%, 7 points higher than the overall population rate. That is the reality faced by many of our young people today. Ask those young people aged 28, 29 or 30 why they continue to live at their parents'house. None of them will tell you that that at home thing anywhere, I'm absolutely convinced. But the truth is that 64% of Basques under the age of 35 have not yet emancipated, with the delay that this also implies in the generational change. This is demonstrated by decreases in birth rates and increases in ageing ratios, where the population under the age of 35 represents only 32.5% of the population. There are many points in this draft that we do not agree with, and we believe that they also blur the substance of the bill by establishing projects, programmes and campaigns for sexuality education. In addition, article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution, which establishes groups of young people who serve only to create differences and divide young people by normalizing the use of euskera in all areas of young people's lives, is inconceivable. A political imposition that restricts the freedom of each individual to choose the language with which he wants to develop his life, to limit the field of interaction of young people to the local level, far from the desirable combination of local and national perspectives that allows to develop a critical spirit regarding the modus vivendi of the rest of the Spanish young people. That is why I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, to go out on the street and watch and listen to the young Basques. We must work to make emancipation before the 30th... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... of the rest of the young Spaniards. That is why I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, to go out on the street and watch and listen to the young Basques. We must work to ensure that emancipation before the age of 30 is a reality and that our young people can realize the dream of forming a family and be able to sustain it or undertake its life plan, something that today is a chimera for almost all young Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u19	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. President. The chief of the department. Partners. It is true that this law was necessary, but it was late. And though it's late, well, we have it here. And we've had a strong discussion, a wide discussion, both in power and in the committee we've made. We mentioned that our position would be abscessation. We discussed it at the first meeting, discussed it, discussed an entire correction of what the EH Collect offered us, and did not help us. But at the same time we said that we would touch a lot of things in the original text, in the text, in the text, and make several proposals. After the debate is over, we must say that our position will be abdication in this law. It is clear that we have claimed from the People-Citizens Group and from the People's Group in previous legislatures the need for a youth law, which was long overdue with failed projects. And, in that sense, there was a need to have a specific regulation that would regulate specific aspects related to Basque youth. Moreover, we also understand, in this context, in a context of difficulty, in a post-pandemic context, where there are many young people who are unemployed, in precarious employment, who do not have access to housing, who cannot be emancipated. Not to mention also the problems we have of lack of opportunities that our young people see and how they decide to go to other places to work and, consequently, to develop their vital project. As regards the text which has finally emerged from the debate in committee and which is adopted today in this Parliament with different votes, we have to say that for us it is still an excessively declaratory text. Too many principles are announced, objectives that must be achieved, but specific aspects left for a later moment are not defined or regulated. In this sense, there are numerous regulatory references, for us, in a legal text, and, as I say, that many specific regulations that already had to appear in this text are left for a moment, as I said, later. It is a question of setting up - in this law it has been sold as a novelty - a Basque youth system similar to the Basque service of... Basque System of Social Services. But nothing further from reality, because the Basque System of Social Services recognizes genuine subjective rights that are payable to the public administration, and I do not think that is the case, there is no clear list of subjective rights that are payable by young people before any administration. Therefore, we believe it is a fallacy to configure and speak of a Basque youth system when subjective rights are not being set up. That is why we have been calling into question throughout the whole text that we are talking about a Basque youth system. On the other hand, the distribution of competition between public administrations is not sufficiently clarified. We have seen certain interferences, above all, in the field of outlaws. And, in short, we doubt the effectiveness, as he pointed out, to solve, well, in a forceful and necessary way, for many of the problems that young Basques have at the moment. And finally, there is an issue that was important to us and that has not been taken into account and that has drawn our attention, from an express reference to the delegitimization of terrorism, to eradicate those traces of hatred that unfortunately persist among our young people and that lead to the persecution of other young people for ideological reasons. That's a reality you can't close your eyes to, a reality that's there. And we regret that these references which were introduced through an amendment by the People's-Citizens Group, which simply referred to values such as respect, coexistence, plurality, respect for the different, have not been taken into account in order to introduce ourselves into a law, which we believe were absolutely necessary references in order to consolidate our democracy and, above all, to do justice to what terrorism has been and, above all, pedagogy in relation to young Basques. Anyway, I have to say it's a necessary law, but for us it's short, it's half. And that is why we are going to proceed to abstain in the whole of the law. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u21	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u22	Yeah. Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we consider that the adoption of this law, of the law of youth of Euskadi, even if it comes decades late, since for decades we have... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we consider that the adoption of this law, of the Euskadi Youth Law, although it comes decades late - since we have had this competence exclusively for decades, and moreover, if we compare it with other communities, there are some that have been with approved youth laws for more than 20 years - in any case, it is good news, that it was or is, until it was approved, one of the only communities that lacked a law... who lacks a youth law. We welcome it and I also believe that many of the entities that have participated in all these years, not only in this legislature, not even in the previous one, but in all the previous processes, in the claim of a youth law. In the first part, I'd like to thank the Young Testament Council, as well as the many of our young people, the Young One, the Young One, the Young Ones of Rebeldía Podemus, the Young Communists, and also the secretarys of the various unions, especially the Young Council, for his business, and all the rest of the groups which we've spent so long together. The law passed today is completely different from that presented by the Government. This project was presented - and we said so - focused on a concept, intercommissioned, "to accelerate generational replacement", since the social, economic and cultural cost of non-incorporation of youth is enormous. In our opinion, a totally reductionist vision of youth, first, because youth is the present and has rights and must have them guaranteed today and, second, because it is much more than a sufficient labour force and necessary social security contributors. We think with this law, that the problems of youth and youth are placed at the center. Together the proposition of Podemus Jureda Unides and of social modification and of his project and of his social party and of the Socialists, or of the Government, do not agree; that is true. And it is also true that the direction which was included in the bill was a economist. Youth, I say again, had to work to contribute, youth must have children at an earlier age to raise birth rates, etc., etc. Hori da jatorrizko testuaren helburua. It's pentsatzen dugu hainbat lekutan aldatu dugu helburu horiek. We have used the consent of our present day to change this vote, because the rights of youth have been introduced, because we think of the affairs of youth, and that certain measures and directions are inserted in this sense. Today we consider - as I said in the committee - that, following the work done by the various groups in the paper, we are facing the adoption of an entirely new law to that presented by the Government. And usually you don't get a situation like that in most laws. But we have to say that the vast majority of our amendments have been negotiated, have been negotiated with all the groups, with the two groups that support the Government and also with Euskal Herria Bildu, and have been incorporated in order to improve this law. Euskal gasteriak parratzen dituen arazoen aurrean, benetan pentsatzen genuine law berri bat egin behar zeala. Because the problems of youth - some have already been mentioned, but the late emancipation, the average age of youth in Euskadi is more than four years higher than that of the European Union - show us that the challenges and problems ahead are very great, and, moreover, they hide the other side of that concept, of that word, which is the late emancipation, which is the vital precariousness. Two out of three Euskadi workers between the ages of 16 and 29 have temporary and precarious contracts. And, third, one of the great problems that young people have, that young people have in Euskadi is access to housing, that conditions, how not, an independent life project and that can be decided. These rights have been introduced. Apart from the mere list, the rights of young men and the exact duties of administration have been acknowledged and introduced. And now what's left of it and we're gonna ask the RedMingerac and we're gonna insist on it and guarantee it, to guarantee the rights that have been inserted here and to guarantee the resources that the Administration has to put in. A chapter of rights has been introduced that we considered to be fundamental; fundamental because, in addition, it has obligations for the Administration in terms of the provision of services that comes later in the law. Right to employment inclusion and a very specific and very specific mention, and also agreed and negotiated with some trade unions, in the fight against the fraud of contracts in practice. Right to decent housing, which is not only going to be solved by this law, but we have to improve all housing policies in Euskadi, which, there is not the counselor right now, but surely he will hear it at some point, they do not come to the vast majority of young people by astonishment. It is clear and important that it has been mentioned, although now there is not even the one that has done so, because sexual rights and guarantees for young people. A right to comprehensive education, which is also right in terms of health, in active participation, which, I say now and I will say later, we would have liked to go beyond, and in sexual affective education. And a right, a right to emancipation. And for that, for that, the proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, and which we have managed to negotiate introduce into the law, is the creation of the Basque network for youth emancipation, which has very concrete obligations. And that, I say again, now it's time to develop it and provide it with sufficient means. We are not going to say, and I said this in the committee, that this law will solve all the problems of young people because comprehensive public policies are needed and the problems and challenges that we have before us are too immense for them to be solved with a mere law. But we did move from a law that ordered existing youth services to a law that recognizes rights, empowers and puts the mechanisms to improve the lives of young people in Euskadi. The challenge, the challenge is not small, but it involves fulfilling what this law is. We will not say that this law will solve all the problems, because they are necessary integrated public policies to which those rights will be guaranteed. But, yes, we really believe that there were services for young people already... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... (... because they need integrated public policies with them. But we really believe that there were already some laws in which the services of young men had been administered, or that they had passed into a law which admits of rights from one to the other. We want a free society so that young people in this case can choose their own life plan. That is why we have, I say again, that one of the most important rights that are incorporated is the right to emancipation. And it creates a very concrete tool, which is the Basque Youth Emancipation Network. It is a new service that will also count on all the previous work, of course. But it is a new service aimed at young people to order, guide, advise and manage all possible aids and benefits to guarantee the right to emancipation. We also want a critical society. And therefore many measures have been introduced in this law to promote the participation of the younger. We'd like to do it all the way up and down at this point, but there's a step ahead. We want a feminist society, and we also believe that they will destroy the maxist violence, that in education they determine public guarantees based on education and education in the intellectual educational education. And in this law, in this sense and even in the law of education, we will make our contribution. Eta baita ere, we want a Basque society that recognizes and manages and promotes its diversity. And so, in the face of the reaction to reactionary discourses and to a youth who in many areas of life want to stereotype it, and they also want to homogenize. We want this law to advance in that recognition of diversity. For all this, in addition to this law and I said it before, urgent reforms and improvements in the housing law are needed to guarantee the rights of all young people. It is also urgent to approve the regulation of rental prices. And both some parties that are now going to vote against, and others that are going to vote against this law, I appeal to them that this is also necessary for young people. As it has been important to approve the labour reform, which in one month, in one and a half months of implementation has meant that they have moved to indefinite contracts from 11 to more than 22% in one month of implementation of the labour reform. Or what is important is the reform of the income guarantee law, and also in the aspects that touch young people fully. Like lowering the retirement age, the age of access to income security income, and also the conditions. And it has also been important to adopt, for example, the Rider Law, which protects a great many, thousands of young people who work and work and continue to work in precarious conditions and who have to work for the implementation of that Law. To-day, Podemos-Uruerda Unida is to protect a law of youth who professes the rights of young men, which is founded by the Euscal Network of the younger generation. He who deeps himself in democratic men, who will not solve all the affairs of the young, but will give some important landmarks. Now it's EukoMIRING to provide and develop with the means. Make sure he's got us. We'll try to ensure that. Together, we shall be above all the articles which are made up to-day by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Mr. Alegez, the socialist Basque, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u24	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Today, in this legislature, we are discussing a very important law, a long-requested law. And (... The law which answers to the hinges they have. Because our young people claim the right to build their life with autonomy. A worthy housing, a quality employment, an equality of opportunity. We have to work on that road. (... ) We have young men, well-made and compromised, no doubt. And if we give them the chance, this society will encourage the amount of transformation it needs. It's our future and our hope. And it's our duty to look after this future. You see, if one thing teaches us the recent celebration of March 8th and the whole feminist struggle, it is the laws that allow us to reduce inequalities. That people can prosper, advance in rights and live more dignifiedly. And today we are faced with an important law, which undoubtedly consolidates rights. A necessary law on the other hand, and not from now on, for a long time. And I would like to recall that the first firm, solid draft that we had in this House of a Basque youth law was the one that brought to this House the Patxi López government three years ago. That text was rejected by most groups, and everyone will know why we have wasted so much time in bringing forward such a law. It was therefore necessary and opportune, that after so many years we could count on a youth law in Euskadi according to the circumstances of today. And, of course, adapted to those circumstances. A law that responds to the challenges we face, and especially to the challenges faced by Basque youth, because the young people of our country firmly claim their right to build a life project with full autonomy. Dignified housing, stable and quality work, equal opportunities in access to knowledge and training. Because it is up to us and ourselves to lay the foundations for building a society in which youth cannot feel abandoned or discriminated against. And this law, of course, is a step in that path. Because policies are necessary that from different light angles, accompany young people in their transit to an adult life. And I want to highlight the long work that has been done... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... accompany young people in their transition to adult life. And I would like to highlight the long-term work being done in Basque public administrations, as well as the other entities and actors involved in the development of public policies affecting young people. And there are, for example, housing and employment policies, which we do not by chance manage socialists in Euskadi. We are faced with a law, above all a cross-cutting one, involving several government departments, especially the Department of Social Policy and Youth, Housing and Employment, which always place young people at the centre of their actions. From there, from the transversality, from governance, from collaboration, from the concurrence of the different departments, both of the Basque Government and of the Deputies and municipalities, we have the possibility with our wishes to give our young people the opportunity to have a law that protects them, that protects them, and, above all, that is the fundamental support on which the next opportunities are based. We must create those opportunities for our young people and we must put in place instruments that make it possible for young people living outside to return to Euskadi because they find a job opportunity in Euskadi. Because a society without emancipated young people and developing its vital and productive projects at home is doomed to failure, and we are not willing to allow that failure. We don't start from scratch, we don't start from scratch. In 2019 the socialists launched the Gaztelagun program, with the intention of supporting youth emancipation through financial benefits for the payment of rent. At present it is a structural programme with support which will be permanent until the age of 36. Another major line of activity is the construction of state-of-the-art accommodation: a formula specially designed to promote youth emancipation. Or the establishment of quotas in the access to the public rental park's housing: since 2019 the young people have reserved a preferential quota of up to 40% in the new promotions and second auctions of the Basque Government's rental park. And of course, the employment policies led by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, here present, fundamental for that to be possible. So that our young people can have a place of opportunity in Euskadi, but above all, that their labour rights are solid rights and that, of course, they guarantee stable and dignified employment. Programs like Lehen Aukera, relay contract, Investigative Program, and first experiences with a budget of almost 6 million euros, of course, create opportunities for our youth. And other policies, such as labour reform, recently adopted at the Congress of Deputies, will allow many very young people in this country to have the opportunity to have a permanent contract that is not subject to temporaryity and, of course, guaranteeing conditions and rights that to date they did not have. That's what they're made of. This shows that socialists move to help our young people and our young people, because we bet on them, because betting on them is also betting on the future of this country. It is through the construction of that network, through those policies too, that we create opportunities, as we have to consolidate many others in order to achieve a basis that is the one that guarantees the future I am talking about. I sincerely believe that this text goes that way, and that this text consolidates and achieves it. I'm done. We have a trained and committed youth; trained and committed. If we give them the opportunity, they will drive the reinvention and transformation that this society needs, now more than ever. The young people of Euskadi deserve to be given the real possibility of developing a worthy life project, a worthy life project in Euskadi. They're our future and they're our hope. And our duty, of course, is to watch over our future with this law. Of course, we're laying the groundwork for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u26	Yeah. Thank you, Chief. Well, today we'll end up with a long-term law, but young people aren't just a law. We've seen a lot of them talking about us, telling them that the young people's lives have made a lot worse. But we are not the young men of another country, and we form the young men of this country, who are incapable of giving, of projecting and building our lives. I was born in the year 1996. at the foot of the century and the 20th. in the beaches of the century: the war of two worlds, a fascist state, a 40-year dictatorship, a republic, from ten to ten, and the illusion of this people to be a people, a passion for life. Everything's been over the last century. Ours, however, would have been able to represent the future; they told us, or called us, whether he lived in prosperity or imagined it. But who would have told us today, all those of us who are 25 years old, that we would have suffered a very serious economic crisis, a mundial pandemia or whatever is called a prosperous Europe and a marabilloso, would have lived a war. Who would have said that our first generation would have been worse than his parents, and that we were doomed to it. No one could have guessed that a few years ago. For this world, which the grown-ups swore to us, does not exist to-day. The people and the laws regulate our lives to ensure our welfare, our worthy lives... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... this world does not exist today-in England. The persons and laws who regulate our lives must have the capacity and ambition to ensure our well-being, our worthy lives. But we understood long ago that unless everything was changed in this system, at least we wouldn't fit. And therefore it is plain, that when the state of the younger is exceeding all bounds, it is the time to renew, and change beyond what has hitherto been done. Urteak gives such a parliamentary honek gasteria law baten beharra mahai gaineratzen. The demand for a new youth law that gives answers and poses a real, new horizon for our generation is not new. And thanks to our insistence we have been able to discuss a youth law in this House. A law of youth that we had clear on which axes we had to rotate: real emancipation for all young women, decent working conditions and talking about youth leisure also once and for all. For this we need new forms, new tools, another way of doing institutional policy. A law that could mark a road map for the next decade by changing the way it was done so far. That is to say, to fully expand the framework of what is possible, to renew and change. But today we will vote for this law of youth. EH Collect will vote for no. When the young man introduced a project against the law, our opinion was clear: ambition and practicality were lacking in this law. After that, from the results of several young agents, individuals, and organizations, we concluded that the law was not competent to design the amount of modification we young people needed. That's why we proposed a full correction so that we could build a new law, and for once put other discussions on the table. This correction was not accepted. Then came the turn of partial corrections. And even if we didn't agree with the law, we made precise corrections, exactly 56. What we thought necessary among them was seven who had the ability to change the law, and from the beginning we said what they were. The rest, the form of the law, the content, the style, and the manner of the law changed, were much declamative. From the seven partial corrections five gave rise to new articles, and the other two were directed to confessing the right to study for the sake of resistance, and the other to maintain contact with all the Basque territories, and to build up that real relation. The other five of us managed to trace precise measures, programmes and instruments: one, the right of these young men to make a list, which had the right of giving, and a real confession of it. The second, a particular proposition, which made the right of giving the right of giving, was the necessity of making the precise measures and projects every year. The third, the young in the field of employment, the commitment to not finance the Presidentship with money, and all the institutions of the world, and to point out an indication of the minimum pay. Fourthly, to make it easier to limit the prices of hires to a decent apartment, but also a real opportunity of revenging the programmes of each period. And the fifth, to concentrate on leisure, let us young men have occasion to develop our leisure, to expand our conception and use new space, and to create scholarships and helps for our process of creation. And here's no deal. Only a list of rights has been created, and it has not been succeeded in enforcing the right of giving, and it has been formulated in the dependence of those services which the administration offers. So he's a volunteer. So, after the power, where did they get the media? Well, we've got it in 14 articles of mediums, but the majority are completely declamative. That article that specifies precise measurements is zero. It's written that the performance will be confirmed without marking a path and not specifying the measurements to be taken by funk and other institutions, and that's what everyone can see. Our people need a brave and ambitious law; we young people need a good law, and the reason is very easy to understand because they are taking advantage of our position. This law will take place for the next ten years. The real chance of giving a new answer to the young Euscali might be. High unemployment rates, the youngest is exactly 17%, more than seven points above the rest of the population. The ceremony is in 30 years, and the purpose of the law is to lower it twenty-eight years. In other words, he has but little ambition in his end. The cost of spending is increased to young people, for example we've broken all the marks in the gym for months and years. And the miserable wages, the uncertainty of jobs, the practice contracts, and life at any moment uncertainly. And if I could give you 1,000 data, I could keep talking about gases here for hours and hours, but it's a question of how the young people are going to be allowed today? Centrality is not in these elements. To face the future in the present state is extremely difficult, and it is almost impossible for us to imagine what is to come in a positive manner. This law does not contain the dramatic condition of these young men to answer and resist it: To live with anxiety because you don't know tomorrow, or that your people are going to throw you away because you don't have enough rents to pay in these cities, and because you can't take your parents' lives anymore, because you haven't learned what you want and have been forced to do when you're still unemployed, and we've still got to live a Mudal panmia. The narrower measures, the private guilt of everything, the politicians and communications we have been told to be ourselves. And to-morrow Araba will march on the law of youth in Biscaia and Gipu. But what will change since tomorrow in our daily lives? If we wanted to turn the situation around, this was the time. Risking at once, doing something concrete from the institutions for us. For our generation, tell us that yes, that institutions will respond properly, that you can make politics by putting people's lives at the center. That we will not be the lost generation, that what we are actually living is dramatic and desolating. That employment is not of quality and that politicians will not continue to look at another... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that we will not be the lost generation, that what we are actually living is dramatic and desolating. That employment is not of quality and that politicians will not continue to look elsewhere; that rents are by the clouds, but that this really has remedy; that it is not what there is, you should have told us that it is not what there is, and that a law of youth in capitals has to give effective answers to our reality. We could apply all this, but we have chosen to do the same thing that has been done so far from these institutions. We'll keep our young people screaming in the centre because our generation needs another future and it deserves it. We're on March 8 a week, and we've announced that we're going to put our lives and surveillance right now in the streets about 48 hours ago. As a motto in the Basque Country says, it is not a care not to reach the minimum of wages, to work without a contract, to have no fixed hours; it is also an actual chance of raising young people worthy of life. And if feminism is per line and we wish to apply it all, we must establish it in all laws. Perhaps I give too much transit to a law, or so many of these people will think, but we did not come to the political institution to keep it the same, nor to content ourselves with the little that it is. Youth, perhaps, has a special illusion of passion, which we hoped for in this law. It is passion that is permitted to demand here, and we cannot content young men with this law, because we cannot fit in this law. For once we must make necessary measures to improve and maintain our lives, which belongs to this legislature. You belong to every one of you. We young men are the present and the future, the present and the future; and we will continue to work until we have an answer from this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, chief of artillery, guests, all good days. Here I see you for the last few years, and many of you who have accompanied me on this long journey, and thank you and welcome us all. I must confess that this discussion has made me a singular illusion, because Ms. Saez de Egilaz is from 96, and I have had the first discussion of this legislature about asking for a law of youth, which was a discussion brought together by Podemos, and then we asked him to be a law. And after a long journey, when we're 29, we're going to take the law. And I have to say, as a young man, I feel pride, because in the speech of Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, we are not politicians, young men, I don't know how we got here all of a sudden, we've been in here all of a sudden, don't we? But I believe that our political groups have given us the opportunity of producing politics as young, and that we are in it; that we are a member of the legislature, and that we are now accepting this law from politics. And it's a very important day for us, and it's on purpose for us, but it could have come before us, but I think we're in the right moment because we young people are going to admit that we're going to have strong grounds for this law, and I think we're gonna have to hold on to it. On the one hand, the competition of all the institutions will regulate them, and that which a man can do from his own sphere will be regulated; and, on the other hand, we meet with a legal frame which speaks of the rights and duties of these young men. This law endeavors to promote democratic values amongst the younger, founded on mutual respect and tolerance, which is important to us. It considers the multiplicity of society in the present day, and we have attempted to give the commission all the contributions and proposals discussed in ponciency, to stand before a plural and inclusive society of the future, and to place our eyes on it and to look into it. For our group today is a very important day, because since EAJ-PNV we have always believed in young people and that they are the future, but we know that we have to attend to them from the present. And so, in the government program, the first commitment we had to the young collective was the implementation and integration of the young perspective into all public policies, bringing a youth law to Parliament and accepting it in this legislature. And today the Government is going to fulfil that commitment, and for our group it is an important day. We believe that the future of our people is young people, all young people, and we believe that today we will equip them with a very important tool for this. This law is important to us, too, because it favors the language that makes us people, because this law means gambling for normalization, and that's what I wanted to mention today. I think the agreement agreed on that road, and the agreement we've made between the teams, leads to this, and we've got to put it in value. This law places equality between men and women at the centre. And we believe that this has to be because, unfortunately, it is a problem in our society, but, unfortunately, we have more problems: we have work problems, problems in housing, in emancipation, in our participation in public life. Problems that make it difficult for us to fully realize, that prevent us from developing our life projects. And that's why today we're going to have the first specific law for young people. It seeks precisely to provide protection and concrete measures to remove the obstacles that young people face in our lives. We are a very well prepared generation, with aspirations, initiatives and dreams, and we believe that it is the responsibility of all - and also the institutions - to make those obstacles overcome. Another question, which is interesting in the content of the law, is to enlarge the age of an age: This law is directed to people in the middle of 12 to 30 years. And it's important for us, too, that this stage of age is divided into three phases. That's important to us, because our lives change very quickly, because our priorities are not the same when we have 14, 15 years old, or when I'm 29 years old, or when Mrs. Saez de Egilaz is 24 years old. I believe that the institutions ought to be ready to face different realities, and that this law also allows them to do so. Many have contributed to this law, and I would like to make a special left or a special allusion to it today... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... that this law also gives it its turn. There have been a great many contributions made to this law, and I would like to make a special mention of it to Mrs. Maial's Olbe, President EGK, here. I believe that good and exact proposals were brought, and that, in their vicinity, we were able to discuss and discuss them later in power. And, besides listening to them, we have tried to appreciate your proposals as far as we can, and therefore, thank you, for there are also such propositions in this law. I have mentioned it before: We young people are in trouble. And we have to deal with these problems. The objective data shows us and we believe that we have to do it. And besides, we talked about all the people who came here. And we agreed that we have most of our problems in the fertility, which is why this law seems to lead to the execution of several initiatives and various policies. This law produces the euscal system of youth: he speaks of the services which are to be offered directly, of the autonomy of the young ones, and of the independent projects of their life. The help service will tell us what will be within this strategy, and we will count it with a catalog that will help us identify our services for young people. All this, I would fain remark that we do not come from zero; and I, in 2016, when young men were demanded of the law, I said so. Is there a law necessary? Yeah. But what we've done must be of value too, and that has led us to know where we're from and where we're going to look. We've had strong education policies in this town, and they've helped us work process. Special work programs have been posted, years of year, evaluates and improvements. There have been groups of co-ordinate co-ordinations and fields, and this law now takes a step and will include all the co-ordinations in the young people's business strategy, which is also a member of the Council of the Basque Young Council, and will also be put in a strategy to prevent all this co-ordination in the really pre-ordination and to give way to what we've done. What do I mean by that? Now, that a way has been made, this law must be, I can by no means deny it; I think it is a law coming at a very good time. And we have the means to advance, and we know where we come from, and where we look. I think we're going to vote today on the consent of all the texts, or at least I didn't think we'd be on the side of the negative, and I really believed that this would be the case. I think that we have spread the means of association over and over again, that we have sought, from the beginning, our goal, to advance this law with the greatest possible consent, was to improve the quality of the young men's life, and we had no other end or other strategy in mind of −. In that very light, in that way, you, the EH Collectors, although they were fully corrected, we saw and rejoiced at your partial corrections, and began to examine them one by one. We thought it would be important as a village to get all of us to some small agreements. We knew it, and we knew it with Mr Martínez Izón (... ): Some have not reached the consent, but the majority have. Most of us have been able to get to harmony, and we thought we would find ourselves on another stage today. You've given some facts, some articles, and not how many. I've brought all the articles and all the proposals. 149 of the same number of amendments were introduced in the following manner: Together we agreed to Podemos-Edemera-Ciudadnes, 52 to 59, to half-a-half, or directly. In all this, collect put the amendment into 14 articles, and in 13 new and new changes have been made, and the changes of Podemos, 35, and 31 have been admitted. There were 58 articles and three additional regulations in the law that I had brought with me. We will accept the law with the 68 additional articles and regulations. I think it is manifest, that this government, and the several groups which support the government, have the will, in truth, to improve this law. For we knew this law was good, and thus we believed, and thus it was brought to the legislature, but found a way to improve it. Why? Because we want to improve the quality of young people's lives, and we've never sought to stop this political strategy. I was sorry to hear Mme. Saez de Egillaz's speech today. I haven't really been realistic about it. I will not say that there is any difficulty, and that there must still be other politics to prevent them; I have not denied all this in the whole affair. But I can see that we must step by step, and that there are many instruments here to give way to it, and that we can do it through those instruments. Because you've talked about jobs, housing... All this is to be included in this eupscal strategy. And that's where every department has to take responsibility, and that's what it'll have to do with it. This law seems to contribute to all that has been said, but we believe that we ought to do so from the sphere of our influence, and we have talked of it a great deal. And we think that's the way. Therefore, we are sorry to-day, and it seems to me, that this association, which has been in ponciency, is not really that which we shall see in this legislature, does not really reflect it; the contrary. I think you've been trying to get away from that thing that's been going on. But I want to end by thanking you, because I really feel like we're in front of a good law. It's a kind of law to be proud of; I'm, like a young man, very proud of it. I think our team has been willing to adopt this law. Thank Mr Martínez: It seems to me that from the beginning you have shown a sincere and consistent manner, and that the whole trial has been carried out so easily. I also thank Mrs. Saez de Egeilaz, because I think we've done a decent job. I'm sorry, I'm really saying − again, what I heard today, and I'm very sorry to hear it. And it seems to me that some of you still belong on another plane, and that politics, politicians, are also doing it, and that we can get along with it. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing on the answering shift, Misto doesn't have to say a word. Euscalal Popular-Ciudados, he mustn't speak. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Martíni-Inez, the word is yours. [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...is the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u30	Thanks again. I also take the word again to thank María Jesús San José, a member of the Social Party, a member of the Society, a lover of Ipizar and Maial, who has worked hard these last months, and also for the pomp and roads which have been made in the past few months. And as our spokesmen at the beginning of this legislation said, the policy is to agree with each other in the direction of Podemos; we agree to agree whenever possible, when it is necessary to confess, and in this case we saw it at first, though it is logical, that many modifications, which we did not at first believe, were given. And in this sense, also, to thank the chief physician of the field of Artola generouss for the conduct which you have shown from the beginning. And to all the guests, and, as I said at first, to EGK. And, well, yes, we're sorry for so many things that are out there, we'll still be working on it. And, well, it's out of this confession of EGK to confess the EGK vote in certain areas, but, well, we'll still work in that sense. And I say again what I said at first, in the first intervention. We think that it is a practically new law, that it will be a backlash to many youth policies, but that given the magnitude of the problems that not only young people have, but especially young people, can be a valuable tool, and we will be on it since it is passed in this Parliament for it to be fulfilled, for it to be endowed with resources and to be developed on a regular basis as it has to be developed and none of the... of the spirit of none of the articles of the law. Eta gero, guztiok nik uste due aitortu dugula bieste arazo batzuk ditugula. There has been talk of the minimum wage and the minimum wage is still low in Euskadi and is low in the Spanish state, but since 2018 for the action of Unidad Podemos has gone from 635 euros to 1,000 euros, is it enough?, no, this youth law that was going to change it... neither. We will continue to work and drive from the street, from institutions and from the Government, we will. As far as housing is concerned, I say again. Housing policies in Euskadi are positive in many things, but they are short in the majority, and in young people they are especially short, and it is true, and Gaztelagun we must continue to reformulate and improve it, but we must also take a measure that is very effective, which is the regulation of housing prices. I say the same thing again, the same as Income Guarantee Income. That age must be lowered and conditions of access to youth must be improved. And this law sends recommendations and guidelines for mainstreaming youth policy throughout government action. And that means keeping in mind that all juvenile stages are different and that they have to be taken into account in the laws. Mental health has been discussed, and that is why Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left also brought a Mental Health Act to Euskadi, in addition to other initiatives. No (?) on behalf of the two parties that support the Government, but we will continue to work to improve mental health services. We have talked about care, and we have presented countless initiatives and are working where we have responsibility for the creation of a public care system, and the (?) has also been approved.) plan co-responsible, and so on, a lot of things. And in that, there's a long way to go, and we need to improve it. And I say again, there is talk of law enforcement. The first step will be next year's draft budgets. We will be careful whether or not there are measures in this direction, and all groups will have to assess our participation in these negotiations on the basis of what the Government proposes and on the basis of what the different groups propose to comply with this law, because without resources the objectives of..., the objectives of this law will not be met, and therefore in these negotiations this matter will be important. Again, I shall be grateful, because the work of perfection has been sincere from the first day, and also from the day of the day, to all the operators who have contributed here and abroad and in this process of law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u31	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u32	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Listening to some interventions, I, I would like to highlight three actions that I think are key and that contemplate the law. It cannot be said that this law is a failure, but quite the contrary. First, youth promotion with the definition and strengthening of the youth system; second, emancipation. I believe that it lays the groundwork for guaranteeing the right to emancipation in this country, with the impulse of transit to adult life, of leaving the family home, with guarantees, with tools that guarantee and strengthen a right, and then participation, which is also guaranteed. And I believe that these are three pillars that make this law absolutely something to take into account. There is one thing that has attracted much attention to me, is that the different interventions everyone has considered this law to be necessary and essential, fundamental, in short, something that I absolutely share, that I share. See if we share it with the socialists, who already make three legislatures that we put a text, a draft law that, by the way, some of those who have considered that having a Youth Law in this country was absolutely fundamental, on the day that the opinion of that Act of the Patxi López Government was debated in a commission, at the last minute, having given their affirmative vote, having compromised their affirmative vote, voted against and it was those who led that law to fall. How long have we lost in this country without having a youth law that was about to come out and that some who today claim it were precisely... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... how much time we have wasted in this country without having a youth law that was about to come out and that some who today claim it were precisely the ones who knocked him down. Of course, and to date, I also have to say that there has not been a group in this House that has put forward a legislative proposal in this regard. Not one. Only the two parties that we support the Government, which we are going to guarantee and enable this law to move forward. Obviously, with contributions from other parliamentary groups that will also vote against, but, fundamentally, the two parties that we support the Government, and this Government, which has been the driving force behind this bill. Of course, we must respond to the challenges, and, of course, those answers must also adapt to the new times, and we will have to be constantly transformed. And, of course, our policies will have to adapt to these new challenges. But through this law we already have consolidated and guaranteed rights. And as a result or as a result of many policies that are already under way, we will make those rights a reality. But, of course, the answer to those challenges in no case can be an amendment to the whole or a vote against. In legislative action it is essential to legislate; it is obviously essential for the Government to comply with its legislative timetable. But as important as that is that the opposition groups give political impetus to those issues which they consider to be so pressing, so serious, so essential, and which must be resolved so immediately. It is essential that these groups bring us to this House to discuss proposals that are realistic, that are feasible and that are not dreams, that are truly possible and that allow this Government to face up also, with greater assurance, and that contribute to the political momentum that, as I said, is already being given by this Government. In the area of housing, in the area of social policies, in the area of employment. That, by the way, I have been very drawn to the attention that some or some have denounced that employment in this country is not of quality, and that, then, when approving the labour reform, which precisely guarantees rights and improves the working conditions of our workers in this country, they have voted against it. Well, let's start there; let's start by being honest; let's start by being realistic, by being realistic. And, of course, through collaboration and policy drive, we will be able to meet those challenges through this law and the future proposals that I am convinced will also come to this House with your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u34	I'm asking you for a thousand, Chief. "You have spoken much of all that we have spoken. First of all, I'd put the job I'd done in college, and I think at any moment, and the last time we made it on the committee, we said it, first and then, thanks to you Martíni, and Laura Gardini, Maial and Lovel, and María Jesús San José too. I think we've done a job to unite and develop partial corrections. But I have already stated, and, as Maial's Guruga has remarked, we have received 44 correction, but, as I have observed, the new articles from 56 were indispensable, and the five of them produced new articles. And, as I have remarked, some corrections are immediately admitted, which are partial, three exactly, two, or three, I do not know exactly what they are. But I understand that in this law we ought to proceed from other designs. I think it is the right and care of all parliamentary groups, if we do not agree with what is done. And the thing that surprised me most is that even the parliamentary groups you have descended here have hardly spoken of the real transformations the law will produce. You've already mentioned what it's going to be, but what's going to change tomorrow? It's hard to understand how the production will come down from 30 years to 28, 28, with all the problems that this country has, with the lack of the quality of the jobs we're seeing; yes, there's a lack of job quality in this country, otherwise we wouldn't see the young men getting paid 300 euros and 400 euros in the practice contract. How will this be legalized? Shall we accept that? Is that gonna be okay? And you've stated a number of programmes that have been made in the past few years, belonging to this legislation, and who started at the pre-prejugation of the legislature, − the First choice, but these are the programmes of a government, and this law has been introduced for the next ten years, or at least is intended to establish a foundation in order that all those retoires which will be our generation in the next ten years may be gradually operational. But they don't respond to all this rapid phase we're living in, they don't respond to all this social, economic transformation we're seeing. We don't know if our lives will be safe tomorrow, we don't know what will happen tomorrow. Well, we'll have to anticipate what a law will be to us in a few months from here and there. And you'll have to specify precisely the measures for the institutional institutions, the eucalyptic institutions, the proposition to which our lives will be regulated. But it is certain that all the decisions which are here made are thoroughly declamations, full of good intentions, belonging to the Institution, to labour, and employment, or to the House; but what is to be done is not concentrated on what it is possible to do. And above all, it does not mark a way that these young men may claim our rights and demand them. This was a step-stepping work, but I don't think we agreed to it anymore. We didn't agree on the basis, or we wouldn't have run a full-scale correction. And partial corrections give little margin to plan real corrections on the basis of a law already set. It's very difficult, and they also assumed a real transformation, because we discussed special regulations in the partial corrections we made... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... besides, we made some very special formulas in our partial corrections, which were supposed to be a real modification, or the demands we required. This was very difficult in the other articulate. Then we often talk about political strategies. I think it's a political strategy that should be carried forward in parliament. That each party has to have a chance to do its own operation. In the first place, and not in this legislation, we declared that there was need of a law of youth, and that it was also necessary for the Government to bring it here. This is what we stated, even thanks to our initiation, that we are now discussing this law of youth. And I think that before looking forward, we have brought thousands of thousands of thousands of initiations into this legislature to talk about the lives of such young men. About those things he's living in the diary. And, as I said before, I could sleep el Marco de, in order to begin transforming that frame of what is possible. Because what we have today is not all we can have, because we can do much more. And we've had an opportunity for a major interview. But even if you're realistic, you're facing an absolute mayoría. You decide what you do and what you don't, and you also decide not to accept those five articles that we wanted to set up the center. Therefore, as you may understand, I think it is quite fair, or that it is natural that we should deny it to-day. This law. Because we really think it could be better for young people and young people. We had a real choice in the Araba, the Biscaia and the Gipuzian.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. The representative of the Eubertist Group, Mrs. Guruga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u36	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. I have to start like I've finished. Because I thought I was running out of time and I didn't thank everyone I should have. I didn't thank Maria Jesús San Jose, I didn't thank Lovene Ipiñazarri. This law has taken me a long time in the state of my mother, and helped me very much, both of them, in the way of my companion. And thank you, as I said before, for all you have been with me. We think, and we're very clear about that, we're in time for deals. That society requires deals, and that's where we have to put the focus. These young men ask us to combine, to come to the agreements, and offer their resources in order to develop their life projects with a quality. And that's our main goal to make a deal. I don't know. I don't understand. Sometimes I talk too fast. (... ), too. I think I have spoken much of the law, as I speak of my sadness in regard to you. But I have spoken a great deal of the law, and I have spoken of so many means which appear in the law. And I've even talked about where we'll be able to find them in their development. And I said I was too proud. I am very proud of this law, for this law puts the means of improving the quality of young men's lives, and I even find it in that way. Because you've been in the budget, and we've made a deal for young people too. And it seems to us that there is a way, and that is the reason why so many policies will follow for young men to improve their life to their quality. And that's where we want to meet with you. It's mentioned that we have the whole majority, and I'll hold on to it. This law that came with 58 articles will go with 68. With most of them all, I'd say it's not bad, right? I dare say the band we hold in the government will have something, and it has been a matter of will. Because if this weren't here, instead of being here years and figs, we'd have had a few months and then we'd move on. But that's not what we meant, it was the opposite. And I wanted to show that from the beginning to-day to talk to you. In conclusion, say you, EHG will be left alone in this negative chamber of law. And I think that ought to have given you a lot of thought. Really. If it were for you, the young people would be exempt from law today, and this is a very important day for us, and we are proud of this day. I'm going to finish, I'm not an expert on these things, but I want to finish it with a song, it's a News Jair song. And to me, it's so much fun in these young people's life that everybody would have to hear about it. And it seems to me today to finish answering EHG, that it's a good song: "To get out of your world [is] good, that you may know that you are not the only one. You must try to preserve consistency in the plural society of your environment. When you have the courage to make your decisions, and the need of matureness to make it impossible for all the world to do so, you will see that in life I have to choose values." It's better when we develop ideas as a person, both in life and in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Gourga. The discussion is over and we'll vote. Let's get started. You've been divided into technical corrections, and if there's no opposition, then technical corrections are accepted. They'll go to the first votes together with the EH Collected Groups made for the articles of encryption. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes that are given,74; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 47; abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u38	So they didn't accept it. They'll go to the vote together, made by the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadanians reserved for the articles of irication. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... corrections reserved by the popular group of euscals, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 6; the opponents, 68; abstentions, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u39	So they didn't accept it. They vote at the same time, 2, 10, 12, and 31 of the judgement that they have made. Articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u40	So they're accepted. The vote is put together, the 5th and 18th of the Judgements that have been corrected. Articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0,0; December, 28; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u41	So they're accepted. They vote together the other articles of criticism that they've been corrected. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 22; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u42	So they're accepted. The articles of criticism that have not been corrected are put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u43	So they're accepted. The second twobis article of the understanding that hasn't been corrected is put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0,0; December, 28; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u44	So it's accepted. The rest of the articles and regulations of the judgment that have not been corrected together are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 22; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u45	So they're accepted. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 22; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u46	So they're accepted. And therefore the Law of the Young is approved. Third point in theme list: "The legal proposition made together by the Polydemos-IU parlamental team, the Engregree, the production of the Super-Escan Powers. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and that's why we're going to argue without having to read it. Is there anyone else who participates besides Podemos? Okay, Mr. pues Soto, representing the Podemos team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselors, counselor. Today we come to present by our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, a proposal for a law for the creation of a public renewable energy company in Euskadi, which we have called Energy Berri, and which would be located as a public society within the Basque Energy Agency. The invasion of Russia, in addition to human drama, has once again placed on the table the geopolitical importance of energy dependence. Yesterday the Lehendakari Urkullu used the term war economy, and I would like to take this opportunity to speak on this issue, in particular, also to refer to the declared war that Iberdrola and the energy oligopoly, declared, worth the redundancy, the coalition government and the citizens in general, including also here the industry and the different companies and productive fabric, do those because of the cut of the fallen profits from the sky that applied to them. We have to put it in advance, we have to say that in the war economy we find ourselves on the energy issue for a long time... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that a war economy has been on the energy issue for a long time. We have just reached prices of 300 euros in megawatt hour, and that Sidenor and Iberdrola had serious encounters for the price fired from the light that was going to lead to bankruptcy to the steel industry and to the electrointensive industries months ago. That is, that beyond the humanitarian drama and also the way the energy issue has increased the Ukraine war, we came from a very complex situation prior to this situation. That is why we are defending today our proposal to create a public energy company to make us independent, not only from Russia, but also from the energy oligopoly. Companies and households are now being kidnapped by light prices that are rising with the risk that Russia will stop importing gas into Europe; a gas that accounts for 40% of what Europe consumes and 9% of what the state consumes. Euskadi presented a huge dependence on gas in general, and on Russian gas in particular. In the regasifier of Bay of Bizkaia Gas - a 50% company between the Basque Government, through the Basque Energy Agency, and of Enagas - 42% of the imported gas comes from Russia. Someone will think of saying that this justifies the exploitation of gas wells in Euskadi to reduce dependence on countries such as Russia, Qatar, the United States or Algeria. But it is a look, in our opinion, of little vision; because the problem of Euskadi is not only to depend energetically on third countries, it is also to depend on large multinational energy companies such as Iberdrola or Repsol, Petronor. Euskadi depends on all of them. Euskadi's energy sovereignty is null and void. We depend on other countries or we depend on oligopoly. The Basque Government has for 40 years created a totally gas-dependent energy system: it has joined Nortegas, Bay of Bizkaia Gas, Iberdrola or Repsol. And along with them he has designed an energy policy that sooner or later we knew was going to pass us the bill. Today, in 2022, Euskadi is another country that has not made the energy transition that was known to have to be made since the 1990s. The energy situation in Euskadi today is the result of successive governments that have put everything on gas and multinationals. Energy oligopoly is the great benefit of these policies. There they have Iberdrola with a new historical record of net profits of 3,885 million in 2021. There's Mr. Galán, paying 34,000 euros a day. Euskadi is poorer while some are becoming richer and richer. And it is that energy companies have benefited - and much - from the marginalist system of fixing electricity prices. A regulated system from Europe, where, obviously, lobbies or the energy lobby also have their influence. A system created by and for them, which allows them to sell electricity at 500 euros per megawatt hour this week, when it costs them four euros for hydraulic energy or 18 for nuclear power, or around 25, 30 euros for renewable energy. We hope that the European Commission will react as soon as possible and modify this marginalist system so that the gas does not set the price of light and that the price will be considerably reduced. It is important to understand this context of how we have come to have this dependence on third countries and on multinationals, because the main objective of the public renewable energy company that we are presenting today is precisely to be energetically independent of both. The aim is to advance energy sovereignty in the medium term. If we continue year after year giving public funds to Iberdrola for its wind and solar parks or to Petronor for its hydrogen bet or to the Mondragon Group for the projects of solar self-consumption cooperatives, what the Basque Government is doing is putting the red carpet so that a group of private companies controls all energy production and households and companies continue to pay perpetual bills to these companies. From Elkarrekin We want to break up with that dependence. We do not object to Iberdrola, Petronor or Grupo Mondragon investing and competing in the energy market, but we consider it vital that there be a public operator looking for the general interest and not just for profitability and for the results account. Public funds must be used to democratise and decentralise energy production and for households and businesses to pay for electricity at cost. That is what we intend with this initiative: to create a public renewable energy company so that we stop being kidnapped by authoritarian countries, but also by an unscrupulous oligopoly that pushes and blackmails governments. The Basque Government has already issued an unfavourable opinion on this proposal for a law, so we know in advance that it is not expected to be adopted, also taking into account this turn of interventions. However, the arguments on which the Government relies to issue the unfavourable opinion, in our view, are full of arguments that we do not share. First, they argue that there is no need for a public renewable energy company because we already have the Basque Energy Agency. So, if we already have the Basque Energy Agency, why have we promoted a public company like SHESA? A hydrocarbon company in Euskadi? In our initiative we clearly indicate that the public undertaking we propose would be part of the Basque Energy Agency, just as it is SHESA. So, on what basis is it feasible to promote within the Basque Energy Agency a gas-exploiting company but we do not want to promote a renewable energy company? This argument is subjective and is simply a political position of the Government. Say that they do not want to, but do not say that it is not possible or that the Basque Energy Agency already exists. If the Basque Energy Authority already exists, why does the Basque Energy Authority create or participate in societies such as SHESA, (...) Bioartigas, Elur, Ekiola, Aixendar or Bahía de Bizkaia Gas? It is necessary to create these societies, but to create the Energiberri society to promote renewable energies and rehabilitation is not because the Basque Energy Agency already exists. It seems to us that the argument is not supported. In their opinion, demonstrating a self-congratulation exercise, they indicate that the key to the success of the Basque Energy Agency is public-private collaboration. What do you understand by success with the price of light by the clouds and the generation of energy in the hands of a small oligopoly? The success is the record profit of 3,885 million Iberdrola, a Basque company whose largest shareholders are a fund of Qatar, Black BlockRock and Norges Bank. If it is a success we do not see it on the invoices, because if the Basque entity participates in 50%... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...whose largest shareholders are a Qatar Blackrock and Norges Bank fund. If it's a hit, we don't see it on the bills. Because if the Basque entity participates in 50% in Bay of Bizkaia Gas with Enagas, or 40% in Aixendar with Iberdrola, in which the Basque households and companies have lowered our bill. We see it even when they intend to give Petronor or Iberdrola the centralization of hydrogen production; or when they create the Ekiola self-consumption cooperatives, which benefited the Mondragon Group with 25-year contracts to manage the solar panels of the neighborhood. And the homes and industries, to pay bills. They continue in their unfavourable opinion, calling for the importance of the regulatory framework. In other words, there is no need for a public enterprise, but a good regulatory framework. Here I would like to ask what regulatory framework exactly they refer to, because in Euskadi if anything is lacking is a regulatory framework; we have neither a climate change law nor a renewable energy STP. And Euskadi is the desired chaos of the free market, in which any company is free to propose projects wherever it wants based on stalwart to install solar or wind power plants. Here you have Álava; against solar and wind projects to a large part of the citizenry, many of them in protected areas or on agricultural land. We called for a moratorium on these facilities until the regulatory framework was reached, but they did not want to. And now, in addition, they use that non-regulatory framework as an excuse not to approve a public energy company. Finally, they refer to the fact that our company, in addition to generating energy, intends to distribute energy and market it, and they tell us that distribution is a state competition and that it is not possible. I would like you to clarify whether you have read the only mention in our writing regarding the distribution of energy. We do this exclusively in reference to micro-networks, which are small networks that are used at the level of buildings or neighborhoods, very related to self-consumption or energy storage. The Basque Institute of Competitiveness Orkestra has a very interesting document called "Microrail Cases" of 2020, which I recommend to read about. Micro-network distribution is one of the most powerful tools to advance energy sovereignty and self-consumption at the district or small municipality level. And there is no evidence that any competition in this regard is seen. The no to our proposal is not due to technical or legislative reasons, it is due solely to political reasons. You are not interested in a public energy company, because it goes against the interests of energy oligopoly that you defend both in Euskadi and in Madrid. Some keys to the proposals contained in our proposal for a law. First, we proposed an investment of 100 million a year, until we got enough own income from the sale of energy. Investments in energy cooperatives for homes and businesses, to promote self-consumption. Micronetworks, as I said, and advance in energy sovereignty. Investments in large energy installations. That is true, in buildings and urban areas, not in protected areas or agricultural areas. To create a marketer, a fundamental element of our proposal, to sell all that energy at a price slightly higher than the cost price, which could be around 35 euros per megawatt hour by promoting bilateral contracts. This is the key to reducing the price of electricity: fixed and agreed contracts between consumer and user, leaving aside market prices. Much has been said at the Congress of Deputies about the public energy company that promises to lower the price of light tomorrow, and that this is impossible because the price of light is fixed by the European wholesale market. We do not propose that the setting up of a public energy company within the framework of the Basque Energy Agency should bring down bills or the price of light overnight, but we do believe that in the medium term it is the only way to achieve sovereignty and the ability to democratise access to energy, and that it is therefore of vital importance that, through bilateral contracts subject to this public energy company, which will not prioritise the economic results and the results of its business accounts, this project be launched within the framework of the Basque Energy Agency. In this respect, we believe that it would not be sufficient solely and exclusively for a trader. We believe that this public enterprise has to generate its own energy in order to then be able to market it, because otherwise, if not, it would not be able to fix those bilateral contracts that we were talking about. In short, and in conclusion, we believe that it is a priority for Euskadi, in order to achieve such energy sovereignty and to democratise access to energy and to lower light prices and not depend on third countries and, in turn, on oligopoly, essentially, that we dedicate public funds to the setting up of this company within the framework of the Basque Energy Agency, which generates renewable energy, which markets it through bilateral contracts with consumers and with industry. Because in the medium term it will allow us to lower the prices of the bill of light and not be so dependent and so vulnerable to the vavenes of geopolitics and, in this case too, to the vavenes of the economic interests of an oligopoly that does not look for the general interest. We believe that it is vital that this initiative be carried out, although we already anticipate that this will not be the case. And that we will continue, as I said, subject to the conjuncture if we do not face up to once that Euskadi needs a public agent, a public sector in the generation of energy and in its marketer, in its marketing. Not only in Euskadi, but also in the state framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Who wants to participate in the opposite round? No. No. No. Miss Larrea, the opposite round? On the other side? No. "Explicacion de voto then... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] [[Pause]] If the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the contrary, 48; Abstations, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u49	So it's not a question of legal proposal. Next, we'll go to the vote. Mists, an agreement? A vote description? No. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u50	Thank you, President. Let's see, the People's Party-Citizens are in favour of renewable energies. Our commitment is absolute to the fight against climate change. We must be part of an ecological, energy and productive transition in order to allow Euskadi to be climate neutral by 2050. We do not doubt that self-consumption makes our municipalities more habitable, we believe in making urban regeneration operations more flexible to facilitate adjustments in buildingability and land use, taking into account the prospect of greater environmental sustainability and energy efficiency, but always with a limit: we will combat elitist policies that do not take into account the specific circumstances of citizens and their purchasing power, and the effects on the domestic economies of energy reforms. We can agree on that point. And I could disprove all the measures that my party is taking on renewable energy, which are not very few, but let us go to what concerns us at this point, and that is the explanation of why we voted against the creation of the public society EnergiBerri. In December last year we discussed the creation of this society, and at that time we said no. A new entity is not necessary, since since 1982 there is an energy agency, the Basque Energy Agency, EVE, which has developed a fundamental role in the evolution of the Basque energy system, both in terms of the gasification of Euskadi and in its participation in strategic projects for Spain. Since the EVE the development of the different renewable technologies, wind energy, biomass, low temperature geothermal, marine energies, and, recently, driving green gases, biomethane and green hydrogen has been promoted. What's the difference, or what do you want to create? Another public entity to manage the same as the EVE already does? Well, we don't see any meaning. Therefore, this is the argument to vote against your bill, because we see no sense in it and because you are already doing those activities that you were asking to... of which they wanted to equip the public society EnergiBerri. Therefore, doubling what is already being done is not useful for society, and we have voted against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, that's your word, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u52	The lady's head. Good morning, everyone. Well, indeed, the Basque Socialists have voted that we have not - or voted against - the proposed law presented by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita for the creation of public society EnergiBerri for several reasons. The first, in shape. And it is that we considered that the proposal presented here today, being generous, we could define it as a normative gallimacy, of dubious legal sustenance, and that it invaded numerous laws and competences, without in any way defining how it intended to live with them. On the other hand, already going beyond the form to the bottom, because we understood that a problem was presented to us, we were defined a problem, such as that of the cost of energy, the cost of electricity, and on the other hand we were proposed a tool, but at no time did this proposal of law explain how they were going to interact with each other, right?: how EnergiBerri could achieve the reduction of light. We are put in the explanatory statement, we were defined what was happening in other countries, and we were told that there are other countries in the European Union that have a public presence in the energy market. But of course, what we were not told, for example, is that when we reached the peak of the value of electricity - before the war context - on December 22, 2021, when in Spain the megawatt hour was worth 360 euros; in Germany, which has a public company, it was worth 416; in Italy – which is another example that was given - 437, or in France... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... megawatt hour was worth 360 euros; in Germany, which has a public company, it was worth 416; in Italy, which is another example that was put, 437; or in France, the last of the examples that was put, it was 452. Even if we go to the current war context, where the market is extremely tense by, in some way, geopolitical tensions, coming mainly from the monopoly it has... or the importance Russia has in supplying gas to Europe, if we go still last Sunday, the price of light was 442 euros in Spain; in Germany it was 410; in France, 421; and in Italy, 453. Then, the public presence, unfortunately, has not been sufficient to bring down the price of light. Of course, prices which are absolutely unsustainable and which require urgent short-term and structural measures. But measures such as those already being taken by the Spanish Government since the first moments of tension in the energy market began. I am not going to repeat them here again because I have already told you several times: the National Sustainability Fund Act, the CO2 Minority Mechanisms Act, the design of mechanisms to reduce excess remuneration caused by the high price of gas, the extension of the suspension of the tax on the sale of energy production, the approval of the minimum vital supply that protects the most vulnerable consumers, the amendment of the Water Act, etc., etc. All of them measures that have taken effect, that are somehow alleviating this strong impact, and that are published in the Official State Gazette, which is somehow where in democracy all steps are taken towards modernization, towards progress. Finally, I also wanted to say that another of the measures that are really important are those currently being taken by Vice-President Teresa Ribera in the European Union, and that I believe that she should have the support of this House. Where the need to untying the Union from dependence on Russian gas and crude oil, as well as the need to redistribute the benefits of the... redistribution, forgiveness, of the fallen benefits of heaven, is firmly being defended. I believe that these are measures that are necessary, measures on which we will have to go further. But that, of course, a public society, is called Energiberri or is called as it is called, was not going to put great solutions. In conclusion, I believe that today, more than ever, our future only makes sense with more Europe and a more social Europe. That has been and remains the commitment of the Socialists. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u53	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u54	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We're overreacting. Absten. Because we will not argue or dispute your proposition, but we cannot assent because we think you are mistaken. And then I'll explain. With lines drawn in the law, with philosophy, with the ide, in general, I dare say that we agree. That is to say, we need a publicization of energy, to resistoligolipolis, an impulse of retrials, self-consumption, a share of the population, a perversion of fossils, etc., etc., etc., and so on. The problem is not there. The problem is not there. That doesn't mean there's no problem either with law or proposition. We think he has some major problems. For instance, the roles or retracts which are given to an unordered citizen, would have been in three paragraphs of land, while PTSA is in motion. And we believe that the law of climate and energy is as thick, deep as the perversion of fossils to be discussed. Baina gure baizkoa ez etortzea gaur ez da horregatik izan, arazo beste bat yes. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Because if the object of the law fails, the whole law fails. And the object, says article 1, is the creation of a public society... And the object is the creation of this public society, it is the promotion and exploitation of energy plants, renewable energy cooperatives, etc., etc., energy efficiency promotion, etc. That it is not the creation of a marketer, which, in good faith, is left behind in Article 12, either alone or in private public cooperation, which we believe should be done. Baina arazoa bête bat yes. That everything is based on a false premise, that this does not exist. When it does exist, and it has existed for 41 years. In 1981 CADEM, the Center for Saving and Energy Diversification and Mining, CADEM was established. And in 83 CADEM is constituted as a public society, with 100% private participation. 81, autonomous body. Its functions are to promote, support hydropower generation projects and in general all renewable energy sources. And to do... in order to carry out these functions, it may carry out all kinds of management and disposition acts without any limitations other than legality. That is to say, from there you can create a marketer. But not only that, but in the decree of 83 the CADEM is constituted as a public society with 100% public capital dependent on the Basque Energy Agency, generated in 1982, in which the social object is study, promotion, support for actions aimed at the conservation and saving of energy and the development of new energies and promote, support projects for the generation of hydroelectric energy, in general all renewable energies. But not only that, but it's being done. CADEM to this day... Let's see where I got the leaf. CADEM today is participating in solars on decks, wind turbines, solars in orchards, energy cooperatives. CADEM exists and can do everything you are proposing here. And, in fact, things are already being done. And I'm surprised you didn't analyze this. The Budget Act 2021 explains how CADEM has participated in the formation of a company whose social purpose is to carry out all kinds of activities, works and services related to the production and marketing of electricity through installations using renewable energy sources. And you brought in a law that you didn't even mention CADEM. And in all articulates, you don't do CADEM. Here two things can happen: or you don't know that CADEM exists as a public society in EVE, which speaks very badly of your activity, or you know, and there's a problem, and that you're looking for something else-that is to say, a replica of a discussion that you've taken in Madrid... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... zerbaitian beast age ball zabiltzatela; yes, Madrilen was duzuen eztabaida batek erreplika bat Egypt, bath onartu ezin say the Batzuetan premise oinarrituta. Because in Madrid we support it because we understood that the creation of such a public enterprise was indeed necessary for the State. But we're going beyond that. In Nafarroa, in the debate on the Climate and Energy Act, it is we who have led to the creation of a public energy agency. But this is not the context, this is not the reality, there is CADEM. In any case, what we need to do is make some changes to CADEM's decree and guide it to give more weight to all those things that you propose, in which we agree. And in the EVE the disinvestment of fossil fuels and promotion after a public marketer, etc., etc., all that. But that does not require the creation of a new public enterprise, which is the object of that law; that is why it is so problematic. Just like that. We believe that with a retrogation of what is, and with a real bet everything that is proposed here can be carried forward. Eta, amaitzeko, éz dot aipatu gabe uzi nahi, ze gauza bat da hemen form aldetik eta Helburuetan arazo bat egotea, éta bestea hemen beasteen ezezkoen razoietan arazorik ez ez egotea, esta? Ze Gobernuaren irizpidean honako hau esaten: "With regard to marketing activity, it is an activity that the EVE has never lent or intends to lend, and does not believe that it should do so any public enterprise dependent on the EVE as proposed, since it is already an activity that has an important presence of private companies competing for the market. A public company should not distort this market with prices subsidized by the Administration, so it would not bring any advantage to existing traders." Hau gaur exacta, gau defendzaa salvada, salvada bat da...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u56	The distortion of prices now exists, from where it comes, from oligopolipolis, we know, and it requires the origin of a public commercialist to protect the public. But it can be done with the instruments we have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll explain the vote. I don't think we can open the debat at this point and try here, they've tried. In any case, first of all, of course, we must say that we agree with all the reasons which the Government has proposed to oppose this proposition of law. But we have more. In the explanation of what they were saying, Podemos declared that there is a chief question for this law: Speaking of what they call the electric −oligopolipolis without public company, − will not be able to get climate goals, the goals of the green horizon, and that public company will take care of dropping the light bill. But you don't say how or why a public company, per se, will make the light cheaper. They bring us, therefore, the proposal of a public energy company, or the replica of a debate that has already taken place in the Congress of Deputies. So, we don't know if what we want is a big company at state level, if you want 17, one per autonomous community, or if you have to leave town hall by town hall as if they were mushrooms. We don't know. We don't know what the target is. They say the goal is to reduce the price of energy, but do they really think it's for this? Because I believe that by sticking to the reality of the market, by sticking to the asset situation, by sticking to the cost situation, I don't know if that's much to say. I think they start the house on the roof, because a company, per se, for being public, is not going to make prices go down. You know why? Because it is subject to the same rules, the same market rules as private ones. I mean, can a public enterprise get out of the system? No, no, Can you skip the pricing system? No, no, Can it make allowances go down? No, no, What assets does it count on? With none. Does (...) contrast? None. Do they have enough assets, perhaps, to influence the price with some kind of technology that we don't know and have such extraordinary benefits? Neither. What cost structures will this company have? Who would bear those costs? They talk about benefits per se. And if there are losses, who assumes them? If there are no benefits or are not enough, how are the necessary investments revalued? By resorting to debt? They give us the examples of Italy, Sweden or France, but the truth is that having a public company, prices, today, as has already been said, are very similar to those that are being given here. Nor do they tell us that EDF in France is heavily indebted, and that France also has a system agreed with the European Union until 2025 so that 25% of nuclear energy is sold at the fixed price. This is something that other countries cannot do, because prices must be fixed by real, market-forgivable mechanisms. And it is true that France has lowered the price of consumers, yes, but with nuclear energy. And what they don't say is that it's not enough for them with that nuclear energy they produce and that, therefore, they have to buy the rest of the energy from the market at the prices they are today, so they don't cover costs. And what has the French Government done? He's forced EDF to lower the bill, actually. But on the other hand, to alleviate this cost, it has resorted to an expansion of social capital. A money that will come out of all taxpayers, who are really going to have to pay. And we understand the planning you make. If a public company does not make business with the light, the prices will be more competitive. But I don't think you're considering the other variables I've just mentioned, the market, the cost, the investments, and nothing. It cannot be a cheaper price for not being effective, and not covering the cost of that public company, because it would sooner or later affect the tax collectors. And what energy are they going to sell? The one in the parks they don't want to make? The one about individual consumers? Well, we don't need mediators for that. That of the energy communities? They don't need mediators either. A public company could make sense if we have some worthwhile infrastructure... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Energy communities, they don't need mediators either. A public enterprise could make sense if we have worthwhile infrastructure. But as far as I know, at the moment, you're not much for the work. That's why we don't think it's time for such proposals. Because they look like they're kind of a Populist. (... because it is high nowadays, and it seems to be in 2022, and more to the Ukranine investment. And with the consequences of the world's market. But not today, in a short time or in a middle term, it will not diminish its price. If this proposal were admitted to-day, the lives of the people would remain the same if they did not take any other measure. At European level, emergency measures to limit the contagion of the effect of gas prices on electricity prices. At the State level, a period of months was given to make a proposal for a reform of the electricity sector jointly with the Competition Commission. There we must enter, establish a framework and legislation that will boost, prioritise the democratization of the electricity system. We must not look at this bench to talk about the prices of light, but at the governments to which some of those who sit here and have proposed this belong. And here, here, we must broaden the consensus on this matter in order to be able among all of us to provide ourselves with a legal and regulatory framework that will allow us to make further progress. We must redouble our energy efficiency efforts, equip ourselves with smart networks, speed up the implementation of renewable energy projects, and we need small self-consumption projects, medium as energy communities, but also large, also large. Each case is different, and this law does nothing but constrain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u59	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u60	I'm done, Your Honor. I have the feeling that this was not a means, but an end in itself. And this country has already had a Public Energy Agency for 40 years, it's called EVE. Eta gu, such bezala, transizio energetikoan sakontzen jarraitzeko beast bide bat dagoela uste dugu. Eta horregatik bozkatu dugu kontuan hartzeareen aurka. Gauzak askoz hobeto egin daitezkeela uste dugulako. Amets egin dezakegulako, bathe beti esna. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Forth point on the theme list: "Mertion introduced by Pazzi Gartea Ortega EH Team Membership on the necessity of strengthening the inspection of Job. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Mrs. Garcia, is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u62	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. First of all, we must say that the starting-point of the motion we are to discuss today is a theme of great agreement. We have a starting point where there is no discussion. The majority of this legislature has frequently chosen this method. All this, because it is the starting-point of this motion, the necessity of strengthening the Vision of Job. On this road, to the same discussion of the Eucal strategy of the Epleca in June, the government admitted the engagement to strengthen the inspection of the work. And this engagement is thought to be a priority to strengthen the Vision of Job, the other to increase the ratios of Vision, in order to arrive at the opposite of those that are in Europe. The need and commitment to strengthen inspection of work is also recorded in the security and health strategy of work. And the motive which had been adopted a few weeks ago to ensure the worthy conditions of public works in the legislature. Moreover, the law of equality between women and men, which has just been admitted last week, is also in article 40, in order to make plans and campaigns against dissemination. And that is the necessity of increasing human resources and economic resources. So, as I said before, it's an engagement that's been repeated over and over again. It is not a new engagement to strengthen the inspection, but it has not been enough for us to do so until now. There are many reasons for strengthening the inspection of the work, and many of which are here shared by the majority. As for the prevention of the labor charges, even the government's health strategy admits that we can't at this time say that there is a general preventive culture in the workshops. And we're looking at the results of that. Almost every week since the beginning of the year, a worker died in a factory. The facts on business accidents show that public policies are not working properly for preventing preventive systems and public dangers, which is a direct connection with the lack of human means of inspection. Prescription of labour, and the prevention of the charges of labour, are the principal causes of labour. This violation of the law on the prevention of the dangers of business will continue if the measures are not taken. And there are two masters: one to promote employment of quality; and the other, the effective and punished control of corporations who do not conform to the law. And that requires no doubt inspection, strength of inspection. Work inspection will take a hand before accidents or health harms it. The implementation and effective enforcement of the Occupational Risk Prevention Act 25 years later since its adoption cannot depend and cannot wait for a change in business culture. A labour inspection with sufficient human and material resources is also essential for the implementation of this entrepreneurial culture of prevention and respect for the health and life of workers. Companies must know, they must realize that the Labour Inspectorate has the human and material means to intervene more and more effectively. The need to comply with this commitment is based on our conviction that most occupational accidents and other health damage could have been avoided and can be avoided by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. On the other hand, it must be considered that the work is more and more devoted to the inspection. All this, in a changing context of work, in which new complex reality of work appear and they must be protected. The inspectorship has to be taken care of, as I have said, of the fraud of temporary contraction, of the hours' record, of the social plans, of the cases in the salary of the temporary jobs, or of the conditions in the digital platforms... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... as I have said by crackling wages, by controlling the files in temporary employment prayer, or by the conditions of working with digital platforms. But with the increase of undertakings, which are attributed to inspection, there has been no effective increase of human means in Araban, Uska, and Gipuzia. The European Parliament's resolution of 14 January 2014 on effective inspections as a strategy to improve working conditions in Europe expressly states that labour inspections are a public service work, and underlines the added value of effective labour inspections in terms of the consolidation of social cohesion and, in general, of labour justice in workplaces. It points out that labour inspections can only be carried out efficiently if the competent bodies have sufficient financial resources and sufficient people. For this reason, the European Parliament resolution urges Member States to increase staff and labour inspection resources in order to achieve the target of one inspector per 10,000 workers, in accordance with ILO recommendations. Today, when ten years have passed since the transfer of the labour inspection in our community, the human resources of the labour inspection in Álava, Vizcaya and Guipúzcoa are far, far from meeting the ILO recommended ratio. According to data provided last year by the Association of Labour Inspectors of the Basque Country, ADIT, the average ratio of our community is more than double. According to this association, in a document delivered by the Basque Government in March 2018, this association warned that in our community today there is a work inspection with clearly insufficient numbers. But these criticisms are not new. Already in 2014 there was criticism of the lack of human resources in the inspection, and the response that the counselor gave to our inquiry two weeks ago was also not new, because then, in 2014, as now in 2022, the answer has been the same. In spite of the fact that it has already been decided to increase the number of places, this has not been achieved because the Ministry in Spain has to wait for the corresponding OPE to be convened in order to increase the number of inspectors. And so, ten years after the transfer of the Labour Inspectorate, it has not even been possible to materialize the creation of the ten new places committed by this Government. As the inspection work, as I said before, is increasing. We see the current situation of the Labour Inspectorate today. The first thing to remember is that the partial transfer, the transfer does not include the totality of the work inspection, but only a part of it. Thus today we have two labour inspections in our community: the one under the Basque Administration, and the one under the State Administration, which is the Labour Inspectorate connected with social security infringements. Now let's see what the situation of the Labour Inspectorate has been transferred. In 2012, when the inspection was transferred, the employment ratio in the Autonomous Community was 38 inspectors. Today, according to data from 2021 of the Council, despite the fact that the employment ratio is 47 inspectors; nine more, the actual occupation, that is to say the actual covered, is 39 people, one more than the employment ratio than ten years ago. The same applies to sub-inspectors. At the time of the transfer in 2012, the employment ratio had 15 sub-inspectors. And in 2021, although the employment ratio is 20, five more, the actual occupation, the ones actually covered, remains 15, just like ten years ago. That's why our motion has tried to answer that situation. And for this purpose, the Basque Country is indispensable to a new alliance with the government of Spain, in order that the central administration may not be a mere administrative administration, and that the practice of public services may not be limited. And in that way, we've made an agreement, and that's why I have to thank them for the attitude shown by the members of EAJ, PSE, and Podemos Irueda Unida. The agreement we've made is important. Today we've taken a step to bring the negotiations with the whole transfer of Lablaur's transfer into the political agenda. To have the human resources and economic resources needed by this transfer. It's an important arrangement, because we signers agree with the need to make a strong survey of work as a tool for high-quality jobs and employment welfare. And it's an important agreement because we signers agree that it's necessary to make a strong inspection of the work, to decide it, and to arrange the resources required by this inspector of industry. According to our social reality. And in conclusion, as the Basque Country is believed to be assembled, the agreement today shows that it is necessary to construct a field of euscals for the purposes of work, by means of new tools for the better reconnaissance of new realities. On the same nail, I hope there's more of a deal like this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u64	Well, of course our coalition to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has been defending, indeed, the thesis in which it seems that, well, in which we seem to agree or at least today to agree. It is the need to have more powerful tools to control fraud in the world of work, respect for the rights of workers. Because, indeed, because of the tools that we have, fundamental to the labour inspection, but also others and that I would like to refer to them, Mrs Garcia, because I think they are also important and that is why we have included them, we included them in our amendment... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... I would like to refer to them, Mrs Garcia - because I believe that they are also important and that is why we have included them in our amendment - because they are tools that, indeed, do not provide enough for the powerful reality of a world of work where the rights of women workers are violated in a systematic, constant, daily way, I would say, and, in some cases, with terrible consequences, as we know, in the extreme case of deaths in accidents at work to which you referred in your question to the Counsellor. That is why it was also important for us to talk about Osalan, which we also believe is an important tool in the field of prevention, which must play a fundamental role. And, also, another tool, which is not ours, therefore, does not belong to us, but which I do want to mention when I speak, because, moreover, this week we have again heard some political group denouncing it, the unions which are the main line of defence in our opinion when it comes to ensuring that the rights of workers are respected. This does not mean that it is their task to make governments abandon their responsibility, which in this case is indeed to ensure that there are tools, such as the Labour Inspectorate, which are powerful and strong. Therefore, in that sense, we certainly agree. We have always defended the need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. We have defended it in this Parliament. We believe that in Euskadi the Labour Inspectorate, despite the increase in resources it has had in recent years, is still insufficient to address the world of work we have. And we are therefore glad that there is, that we have the same opinion, at least the four groups that have signed that transaction. But I would also like to refer to an issue that is not, logically, in the initiatives. In our original it was. I understand that, in order to reach an agreement, we do not have to insist on this idea, but that it is important for us, because the violation of the rights of workers does not happen because of climate issues, it has responsibility. That is why precisely what we are asking for and what we need is a powerful Inspection to control; to control what and to control who. The violation of the rights of workers occurs because employers put their economic interests ahead of those rights, and because there is a significant imbalance between the capacity of employers and the capacity of workers in the world of work. And that's what we think we have to say. Surely some group will tell us that we are going to generalize again when we talk about entrepreneurs. And that's not the case, because, in fact, not everyone does. But the truth is that, if we have worrying data on the reality in the world of work, it should be noted that employers have a responsibility to ensure that there is such a violation of the rights of workers. I am going to refer only to some specific data, especially because they were also present in the inquiry that Mrs Garcia did the other day: what has to do with labour sinestrality. By 2021, 42 people had lost their lives in work accidents in Euskadi. It is not only a significant figure, but it is increasing over the past three years. And, according to Euskadi Workers' Commissions, this increase is only explained by the relaxation of companies in implementing preventive measures and in complying with labour legislation. And we know that this relaxation occurs because there are interests, because it is not the priority, because there is often a contradiction between enforcing labour law and preventive measures and the interests of companies at work on a day-to-day basis. Something that has a lot to do with, for example, the rhythms of work, etc. One more fact: 17 companies are dispatched every week for failing to meet the schedules of workers. This was a fact given to me by the counselor, Mrs. Mendia, when I questioned the question of overtime. We also know that this is an issue that also has a great impact on job insecurity and the violation of workers' and workers' rights. We agree with Mrs Garcia's approach that it should be completed or that the transfer should be complete, in relation to the Labour Inspectorate. But we do want to say one thing: political responsibility, the political decision-making capacity to equip the Labour Inspectorate in Euskadi has it, it has it by the Basque Government, years ago; the political capacity to decide how big we are in the Labour Inspectorate has it by the Basque Government. It is true, it is true, that then, when it comes to equipping above all human resources - because in the field of material resources, of course, capacity is complete on the part of the Basque Government - in the field of human resources, it is true that there is a lack of a question relating to the relationship of jobs, to oppositions, etc., which are, in fact, dependent on the Ministry of Labour. We agree. Of course, we are not a centralist coalition at all, and it seems to us, of course, appropriate that the latter line may also be dependent exclusively on the Euskadi sphere. But we do think it's important to decide. In the end, the political decision, the original decision to size or not the Labour Inspectorate in Euskadi, comes from the Basque Government. Therefore, we also think that this must be said. Because, if we are told that in recent years it has not been dimensioned, I also believe that the Basque Government has played a role here, it has played a role. At this moment, as you know, our coalition bears the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. And the commitment to this strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, the approach that the Basque Government has taken... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... And the commitment to that strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, the approach that the Basque Government has taken - and that we seem to appreciate positively - which will then surely seem insufficient to us because we will certainly have more - of course, the first - but I understand that we all appreciate positively, of course, the Ministry's commitment is that this should be implemented as soon as possible, and we know that they are working on that. And the complete transfer that arises, therefore, of course, we fully agree. We also think that it improves the original initiative, because if we had not had nuances with it, Mrs Garcia, we would have had nuances because you say that the conditions of the transfer have not allowed protection of occupational health and safety. And it seemed to us that it was completely responsible for the transfer not being complete, for not having a powerful enough Labour Inspectorate, and we think it is not: one part has to do with that, indeed, but another part has to do with the political decisions or political priorities that successive governments have been able to give to this issue, to the question of the dimension of the Labour Inspectorate. We are therefore glad that there has been such an agreement. In addition, I would like to stress that we signed the transaction, although none of the approaches in our amendment are taken as a whole, because we agree with the content and because it seems important to us. We would certainly do some nuance in assessing what the Basque Government is doing and what it could do, but, of course, we will always appreciate positively the reinforcement that is being made even though we may ask that more would be needed because we sincerely believe that more is objectively needed. We also appreciate very positively the work our ministry is doing in Spain, and we are not going to stop saying that we should do more because the reality of the world of work is very hard, it is very complicated, and we are never going to give up saying that we have to do more, that what we do is never going to be enough. So, well, I'm glad?, of course, of this agreement. And I hope it serves to have a labour inspectorate as powerful as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, Mrs. Vicelehendakari. The initiative that Mrs Garcia de EH Bildu brings us here today I think is related to different debates that we have already had during this parliamentary term, and to an issue that I believe we are absolutely in agreement with at the core, which is the commitment to quality employment; that is, employment with rights, employment with guarantees, and, of course, which respects the health and safety of workers. On the many occasions when the various parliamentary groups have put forward initiatives on this issue, including questions or questions to Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, there is a constant that we Socialists - whether from the parliamentary group or from the Government - will not get tired. Our aim is not to create employment at all costs and any kind of employment; we have said this constantly, and it is also something that is endorsed by the facts. Our goal is to create quality jobs; that is, jobs not so that people can fail. No, no, We want jobs with rights, jobs with guarantees, jobs that allow the development of projects vital to the workers of this country. And the truth is, we're on it. Because not only can this be part of the speech, because if it doesn't stay in water of drunkards. This has to be part of the action, and not part of it: it has to be the centrality of the action. And I believe that in this we are also taking action in line with other institutions that also have a clear commitment to quality employment. Over the last few years we have seen, for example, how the interprofessional minimum wage is constantly rising, and that is an action that clearly affects these opportunities for work to enable the development of projects vital to citizens with guarantees, not that subsistence, not that mere subsistence, not: quality work with decent wages. We have also recently had a job reform. And in this labour reform there is also abounding in the achievement of quality employment. Some have been absent from the vote in favour of this labour reform, but I am absolutely sure that they see this reform as a step forward, a certain and clear step forward, precisely in achieving quality employment and those rights and guarantees that we were talking about. And in Euskadi we are also following and developing aligned policies in the same direction. I'm not going to do a thorough review. I will highlight meeting points - since we have a compromise amendment - meeting points where we have found ourselves different, different groups, precisely in this bet. The Basque Employment Strategy 2030, the colophon of which is precisely the achievement of this objective of quality employment, and in which all the parliamentary groups in the House have participated and to which all the parliamentary groups in this House have contributed. Yesterday, yesterday, we had a debate for a few hours - of which we have not yet recovered - of the social economy, where it also focuses on the objective of making the social economy a further guarantor, as it is, precisely because of its idiosyncrasy, of that quality employment, of that deep-rooted employment and which enables workers to achieve their vital objectives. And soon we will also discuss the Basque Strategy for Occupational Safety and Health, which also changes the paradigm into something that Mrs Garcia pointed out, right?, which is the topic of occupational risk prevention. Because before, he was just focusing on the... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...changes the paradigm into something that Mrs. Garcia pointed out, which is the issue of occupational risk prevention. Because before it was done focusing only on the job, and now we are going to integrate the gender perspective, we are going to integrate the issues of physical, social, etcetera, etcetera, because it is important. And this has also emerged from the joint work with the social partners, as was said by the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos. And there's one thing that's basic when we're talking about work accident and work accidents, you said it in the interpellation, Mrs. Garcia, we can't get used to them. And Mrs Vicelehendakari went further, she said that it is that the basic budget for quality employment is precisely the guarantee of the safety of workers in their jobs. And we share that vision. And, of course, in all this commitment to quality employment, the Labour Inspectorate is a key element. It is an integrative element of all this need for vigilance, that the regulations that we are taking out the different public authorities are being complied with. At the first point of the transaction we talked about that precisely that transfer 2012 was an advance of self-government in socio-laboral matters, and I would like to stress that we have an Inspection that works and that, in addition, it has a political impulse in recent times, clear precisely to be a service that guarantees the protection of the rights of workers. In the review of the 2021 Inspectorate, which we saw just now, the Vice-Lehendakari presented it just two weeks ago, we have seen how thanks, for example, to the Labour Inspectorate have been given the transformation this past year of 16,000 employment contracts. This started in 2017, and we already have 25,000 transformations of labor contracts thanks precisely to the service of the Inspection. More than 15,000 actions, 9,000 with regard to occupational safety and health, and equally, as noted. And that I think it's important to highlight. And by 2022, as you know, we have the first planned management plan, the allocation of more resources and, in addition, the greater dissemination, the goal of greater dissemination of all these actions. I think to know where we're going we need to be clear where we came from. And there is one issue that you have raised, Mrs Garcia, that I have to correct with regard to the data on the start of the transfer and the number of inspectors that we have today. Because, of course, it has made me the comparison of the 2012 RPT with the occupied ones actually in the year 2021; but it has not made me the comparison of the occupied ones really in the year 2011. In 2012, when we received the transfer, the occupied were 33; and today, we have 39, that is, 6 more. And in the RPT was 38, and now we have 47; that is, 9 more. That's the real data if we compare one element with another, that is, if we refer to the ones occupied in 2012, there were 33, and now we have 6 more today. But there is also an objective, as we have already told you, to bring the legislature to an end with 54 seats, that is 42% more than at that time. And this is about inspectors, because we're also talking about six more subinspectors. And, of course, I, Mr Hernández, do have to tell you that this is indeed a political will. And the Basque Government, Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, is demonstrating this political will by providing the places and establishing them budgetaryly. We have a problem with the Ministry of Labour, and that is something that Vice-Lehendakari has transferred to the Secretary of State for Employment. Therefore, if it is political will, I will transfer you to tell the minister that you have political will to fix this problem. With regard to item 2, we make that assessment of the Government's ongoing strengthening of inspectors and sub-inspectors. And with regard to the third point, addressing the negotiation of the full transfer of the Labour Inspectorate, I believe that it is beyond any doubt that self-government allows us to build a more cohesive society. And, besides, the important thing is not to have or not to have competences, it is to use them for the benefit of the citizenry. And in this particular area, the protection of workers' and workers' labour rights, I believe, is a sensitive issue. As Mrs Garcia explained, some of the troops were transferred in 2011, and from that point on there are some of the inspectors who are dependent on the General Administration of the State and another who are dependent on the Basque Administration. The monitoring and control function has not been undermined, that is; but these two structures produce misadjustments in the organization, and, moreover, they are not economically effective. And then we also have the Constitutional Court's judgment of 195/96 which clearly states that the role of inspector is merely an executive activity of labour law; therefore, of competence of the autonomous communities, while labour law would be of State competence. And having this clear, the questions we ask ourselves are whether it's... or what it makes sense to maintain these two structures. From the organizational point of view, none; from the point of view of administrative efficiency neither, and from the point of view of personnel neither. Therefore, this is the agreement that we have reached through the compromise amendment that we have signed with the EH Bildu Group, and to which the Elkarrekin Podemos Group has acceded. And I believe that everything we put into this amendment is for the benefit of citizens and, precisely, workers so that they can have a public service that guarantees their labour rights. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u68	... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and congressmen. The agreement obtained in this fashion allows us to continue our work together to attain it. I'm sure everyone here is sharing the plan to get a safe job. And it is an opportunity to take advantage of, as well as a better and wider self-generacy. We must work together to find a solution... the solution that society expects in the field of occupational health and safety, because our society, Basque society, has been the maximum that has guided us to reach an agreement on this point that we are now dealing with. Because achieving full employment, but quality employment, secure employment, must not only be a government plan, which is, but must be a country strategy that places employment as the means to achieve a more just, cohesive, more modern and, of course, more egalitarian society. A strategy, a policy in our purest line of guaranteeing more rights and better well-being to our citizens using all the potential of our self-government, betting in the labor sphere to achieve the agreement with the Government of Spain that allows to achieve the full transfer of the Labour Inspectorate. The discourse which I shall make upon this point is founded on two words: employment and people, two axes of the Government's Program. The job. A challenge to create and keep the jobs. But a job of quality. And in the very centre of this aim, the management of individuals, their health, their education, and the management of the most indirect beauties, as the essential element of the government, as the ultimate aim of public politics. This subject is very important today. A dead assembly for me, for the Eurolians, for the Government, and for all, I think it is a tragedy. That's why they're working in the government department and the doctor's working on it. From the sight of the world, it is necessary to cooperate in this matter. Amongst all the workers, including all economics and socials, commitment to the Administration, prevention and preparation. The Government's priority is not only the creation of jobs for economic recovery, but also the creation and consolidation of quality jobs, decent and secure jobs that offer people quality of life and future. This requires an employment policy aligned with social, educational and economic development policy. A quality job that is an instrument for our companies to develop their full potential and generate prosperity. A quality job that can only be interpreted as a job that protects, first and foremost, the rights of workers, and among their rights, the right to health, to return home after each working day. A quality job dispelling job insecurity. And as a priority also, but also as a means and as an end, prevention in occupational health. To achieve these goals we have two tools at our disposal: the Basque Employment Strategy and the Basque Occupational Safety and Health Strategy 2021-2026. Both are the basis for good management of safety and health in the workplace and provide the means to work in the interests of increasing prevention and to take firm steps towards the preventive culture of the training hand. But they are also in themselves the instruments for monitoring and monitoring safety in the workplace. In short, a Basque Strategy for Safety and Health aimed at reducing occupational casualty in all productive sectors. And in this mission they fit and frame both Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate, with a clear role in fulfilling the minimum and best working conditions for each worker. The motion we are now dealing with directly concerns the Labour Inspectorate. This aims to exercise greater control over companies in order to comply with labour health legislation and to combat precarious labour fraud. Of course, you must bet on an Inspection with more and better material and personal means to carry out your work properly. This has been, is and will be a priority for this Government. As a sample, the data of the more than... of the 15,132 actions carried out by the Labour Inspectorate in exercise 2021. Campaigns have been carried out in a number of fields, especially in monitoring working conditions, with inspection actions in monitoring, monitoring and implementing equality plans, as well as in monitoring safety conditions in sensitive work or in work performed by pregnant women. In the investigation of accidents at work, 218 sanctioning files and 222 remedial files have been processed. But their activity has not only reached the health and safety field, but also has been carried out in campaigns against the wage gap. But one more step must be taken. On the one hand, we must have a more comprehensive view, to see how innovation can be an improvement in matters, means and methods of work and, therefore, an improvement in working conditions, the employment situation and safety and health. And, on the other hand, we must bet on another important aspect in the field of safety and health... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... of work, the situation at work and safety and health. On the other hand, another important aspect in the field of safety and health at work must be taken into account: the prevention and training of women workers. Training and the right of workers to know both the occupational risks associated with their jobs and the measures necessary in the field of prevention to reduce them substantially. Prebenzioaren kultura eta riskkuen ebaluazia tinko substatuko direen ikuspegi batan egin behar da aurrera. Hau, lanerako securtasun eta osasunaren euskal strategy austu argia da. Preventive culture as a key point. In it is the future and the key to obtaining a quality job that guarantees a safe job. And finally, I want to thank you for the teams that made this possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Look, in this Parliament we have a rare ability to turn a debate that begins as an inquiry into the workload or the need to strengthen the labour inspection, and it ends up becoming a competition demand. In addition, it seems that all the problems that may exist: I mean workers, unfortunate deaths, accidents, etc., will be solved automatically when what is called a complete transfer in the field of labour security inspection, which also affects as I will say to Social Security. Let's see. I insist, which begins as a debate on the overload of work, which I expected, in fact, to have heard data from the groups supporting the Government. For there are a certain number of visits being made, more needs to be done or the staff are congested, which I think was also where Mr Hernández's amendment was going, which I think was the most honest in defending what was initially this. For I expected to hear some data, I hoped to hear, for what I know, that it was necessary to do more, that good because there were casualties, that etc. And no, I haven't heard any of this. I have seen that everything has focused on an agreement reached by the groups that support the governments, that of Euskadi and that of Spain, in addition to being intertwined, but I have not heard that data. In fact, in a question put by Mr Hernández to the Commissioner for Labour and Employment, who comes to ask: does the department consider the workload to be appropriate? Answer: Yes. (Atonite?) Nor can it be seen that I did not want to complete it much, but well, yes. I say good, because perhaps the groups that support the Government will give us data, because they have not given us too much data either. I have heard from one of the groups supporting the Government, I think it was Mrs Pérez Borinaga, who said that there were some 15,000 visits a year. I, in the answer to Mr Hernández's question, what I have seen is that it is 5,195, but I don't know. What are the terms of the discussion in this case. Let's see the labour inspection, in the year 2011 there is a decree, a real decree, transfer of functions and services in the field of public service, Labour Inspector. What's going on? Since the Labour Inspectorate is a national body and also has two types of competence, the job itself plus those relating to social security, and certainly also those relating to the fight against submerged employment, etc. For in the end it was very complicated to do, so complicated it was, but so many committed themselves at that time, because certain political groups, which in the end end approve a transfer with a decree that is tangled, complex to read there where they are, the decree of 2011. Well, as a result of this transfer order, a convention, a partnership agreement between the Labour Inspectorate, which is left to the State institution, and the Autonomous Labour Inspectorate must be adopted. That is an agreement that is of the year 2011, which was also not arranged too much. In 2015 what is happening, the Computer Law on the Labour Inspection and Social Security System, which contains specific provisions for the case of Catalonia and Euskadi, is adopted. And then what happens, another convention is adopted which increases coordination measures, creating, among other things, a Council, a Commission for Inter-Administrative Cooperation of the Labour Inspection and Social Security system. That's what's been done. And curiously, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the few examples that we have in Spain, is that we do not have too many, where there is a coordination between inspections, and coordination works. How is the system organized? The following way. The Autonomous Community, in Euskadi, is therefore responsible for autonomous matters; for the prevention of occupational risks, labour relations, working hours and so on. And to what is the national or state part corresponds above all two things: the issues that have to do with Social Security, competences of Social Security; we already know the complexity that it has, and the fight against the submerged economy. Before we've given here data that if the ratios, come in mixing things up, right? In the end, we have few inspectors, and so on, and it gives us European ratios. The problem of European ratios is the following: officials who are more or less equivalent do not always perform the same functions. This happens a lot when you do, for example, on health issues, specific inspection issues in other areas, you always say "it's not that we have here". Listen no, it's just that it turns out that in other places there may be more because that body of officials in Europe doesn't usually have bodies as such, except in Germany, what it does is that they have more skills, that's why they're more. For this reason, when it comes to labour inspection, account should be taken not only of those relating to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, but also of the State Administration's own. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that for a competition, a sector, where there is a collaboration between administrations that is really successful in terms of cooperation, it needs to be improved because it lacks staff, great., but we are not going to have a serious debate on that. Mr Hernández was in some way proposing a serious debate on that. Let's see the data, let's see the numbers, let's see the need. But no, in the end, we always resort to the typical argument, is the argument of the theory of purpose, of the nineteenth century, which is that all the problems we have... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...let's see the numbers, let's see the needs. But no, in the end, we always resort to the typical argument: it is the argument of the theory of purpose, nineteenth century, which is all the problems we have is that we lack competition; as soon as we have competition, the problems will automatically disappear. According to the adage we have already heard, curiously, in the Socialist Group, that self-government is well-being, and self-government, in this case, is always going better, when things are mixing with each other. I therefore believe that the terms of the debate have been manipulated, and I sincerely believe that what you are doing is masking a demand for a transfer, in this case in Social Security. It is not exactly asking for competition in the field of social security, but it is the first step in asking for final competition in the area of social security, which would eventually affect the single social security fund. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, the great challenge today of the Labour Inspectorate, the great challenge of the Labour Inspectorate today, in current and short-term terms, is, above all, to strengthen supra-Community, supra-autonomous cooperation to combat the labour frauds that are occurring as a result of a series of developments in the way in which we relate people via online, also via the relocation of certain companies, of certain stories. That's right, that's where it should have been. That seemed to me to be an interesting subject, by the way, and I thought the debate was going to be, but I see that the debate is not there much less. That's why, in my opinion, it's not so much, it's not so much now that you're complaining again, come and again. And the competition, when we have the competition, is solved... By the way, then you never talk about centralizing it a little bit more. But, hey, maybe the outlaws were more efficient. No, what we do now is we are calling for competition instead of fighting to create, in this case, and, above all, to strengthen supra-Community and, above all, European cooperation, which is where it would need to be strengthened much more. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, because the terms of this debate, unfortunately, are now intermingled and do not correspond to what was neither the original initiative nor, of course, to what we are defending, as this can be a first step towards, in a subterfuge way, putting here the third point, which is the one that distorts all of this. That is why we, because it is or can be a first step in breaking the single Social Security box - not that it breaks it as such, but it is a first step, it is always a first step - cannot support this agreement that the groups that support the governments of Spain and Euskadi have reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. He doesn't need to speak at the turn of answers. Does anyone have to take the word? Mr. Hernandez must not speak. Neither does Rico. Yeah? Yeah. Come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u73	I, President, was not going to use the turn, but of course, in the face of Mr Gordillo's game of prestige, I have to do it. Because this is like "look at the little ball to do with the other hand what I want," isn't it? The debate is not transferable. Where the People's Party feels very uncomfortable is in the debate on quality employment. That is where the People's Party feels very uncomfortable. And that's why you just did an exercise here... "No data has been given," by the way. I gave him a few. But, of course, I appreciate the class, but the class comes with the homework done and comes with the data studied. And the data is published. I, if you like, read to you the report of the Labour Inspectorate which was presented two weeks ago, but I believed that, in bearing this point, I would have studied it. He told us there was a data contradiction: 15,000 lawsuits versus 5,000. If the answer had been read correctly, I would see that these 5,000 actions are those relating to labour relations of the 15,000 joint actions of the Labour Inspectorate. And that's the thing. I mean, there's no contradiction. And, second of all, this is an excuse to sneak in. Listen, look, let us speak clearly: What problem does the People's Party have with the existence of a ruling from the Constitutional Court that clearly states that the work of the Labour Inspectorate is merely the implementation of labour regulations, and therefore, as established in the Spanish Constitution, belongs to the autonomous communities? If you explain it to us, we'll be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Mrs. Pérez must not speak. And Mr Gordillo... Yeah? Okay, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u75	For I too, Your Honor, was not going to intervene either, but as I have seen Mr Ekain Rico so demands, for I will intervene. Let's see. I repeat, the terms of the debate were about a need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, which if it was lacking or could be lacking. And this has become the usual, a matter of competing claim. I am perfectly willing to have a debate on the terms... That, by the way, the rulings of the Constitutional Court must be read in their entirety, not only must they include the part that suits us best for the debate. I am prepared to have that debate perfectly, but that was not today's debate. Today's debate, in the end, has mixed one thing with the other, and what we are going to do again is to get the matter out. But, well, no matter what, you guys are already on that bench. They are on the bench this one, where they mix things: that if self-government is freedom, that if self-government is well-being. Sure, in France, everyone knows there's no welfare, right? That is to say, it is also a great subject of prestige, as Mr. Ekain Rico has said. But anyway... I, once again, am perfectly prepared to have this debate. It is well known that I am in favour of coordination systems, but I believe that, in the background, what you are trying to do is: as there is a model that is actually working - that will have its flaws, that will have its points of improvement, but that is working reasonably well - what you are striving to do is to load it back to the usual canteen and to the usual racca racca. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote EH Collect, together Podemos-Nozzers, Eukal Sozialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters, 68; the opponents 7; the contractations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u77	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by Carmulus Barrius Barroja, Popularia, a member of the Ciudadans, of the recent floods of Euskadin. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... Let's move on to group invites. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u78	Good morning, thank you very much, President, Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Well, to be framed, at the end of last November and at the beginning of December, two successive episodes of flooding occurred over 21 days in a generalized way in the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and certain basins were particularly affected. The extraordinary thing about the event was not so much the period of return of the peak flow rates of each of the episodes, but the persistence of the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u79	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u80	Precipitation over time and the resulting accumulated volume of precipitation recorded, far exceeding the accumulated average precipitation values recorded during this century. URA made an information of these characteristics, and also said that in particular, during the 21st day, during the 21st day that lasted both episodes reached the 500 liters per square metre average, a true record of precipitation accumulated in a month, with very striking peaks, with 847 liters in... (?) 695 liters per square meter in Añarbe. And he was talking about data for days 29, 28, 9 and 10 of December, 28 and 29 of November, where floods occurred, mainly in the cantabrian basins. Besides, the Bayas, the Zalla River, the Zadorra in the (?Mediterranean. In (?) in 21 days we were talking about the reservoir of Ullibarri, recording entrances never seen before for a long time, and well, and talking about more issues in relation to the precipitation and flooding in the basin of the Zadorra in January, after the days with abundant rainfall and affects to the rivers, to many of our rivers. Well, as a result of the situation, and as a result of this, we ask the government an inquiry, an inquiry and as a result we have this... Here we bring this motion. The inquiry, of course, was an interesting one made to Mr Vice-Lehendakari, to Mr Erkoreka, in relation to the floods of 17 December, of the recent floods of November and December, that is, a few days after what happened. And in relation, moreover, to the role, to the responsibility in relation to the role... the Special Emergency Plan for the risk of flooding in the Basque Autonomous Community, which was the responsibility of the Department of Safety. Well, it was also clear that that was the role of the department, but that the responsibilities for managing these issues were very divided, very divided in different areas, not only from the Basque Government, but from other administrations. We'll deal with what... at that time what it could, which can be considered a cyclical problem, floods, heavy rainfall, spills. A situation which is often experienced in our Autonomous Community, and which must be addressed above all in situations generated by known causes. Reports say that 250,000 Basques live in flood-prone areas at a time of river growth in the three historic territories. URA has already said that it affects above all the surroundings of Zadorra, Batán, Zapardiel, Zalla, Nervion, Cadagua, Ibaizabal, the de (?), Urumea, among others, where many of these sites need to be reformed, as they can be identified in what can be done. And there may be planned interventions, but some have been pending for many years, some for more than ten years, even before. And our initiative becomes the need to boost the Government's action, which it wanted to be from the beginning. There is budget in URA, there are plans to develop, there is need. In URA, the budget in URA and in other administrations and in other entities, because it is necessary to do so before if it could be from the next blur of the characteristics we have had, that it can be said that there is a blur and a situation of 21 days very important and very intense. And we have to agree with all the institutions, and that is why we presented the motion on 21 December after the question we made to Mr Vice-Lehendakari. And since then, things have also happened, such as URA's announcement regarding the projects until 2027, what we are also glad about after that debate we had, and after the consequences, because there has been a reaction, and that announcement also made on 31 January. Therefore, we believe that the motion is very timely in the work of pushing forward the action of the Government, and of course in the action of the Basque Government, its agency, other competent administrations, and is clear in relation to overcoming the previous delays, and the need to take the appropriate decisions, as they are in the plans that must now be decided and carried out, to implement them. What was clear from the inquiry was that the approach to works and prevention tasks in relation to the risk of flooding was the responsibility of different local institutions, outlaws, government companies, other government departments, as well as others and other societies and other actors. An inquiry that came from citizens' questions about how these climate situations are managed that cause so many problems to different sectors: agriculture, communication, industry, public works, etc. And the motion also responds to that important concern. URA, next to the Basque Government... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...agricultural, communication, industries, public works, etc. And the motion also responds to that important concern. URA, together with the Basque Government and its departments concerned, also the municipalities, the Foral Chambers, administrative boards, the State Administration itself or the hydrographic confederations have much to continue to agree in this regard. And that's why we have to move on to action, because we know that everything cannot be prevented, but what is already known is. That is why we have reached an agreement with the groups supporting the Government on the situation. We had made an approach that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government, as well as URA, the Basque Water Agency, and the other public institutions with competence within the framework of the Special Emergency Plan in the face of the risk of flooding of the autonomous community... Well, it will have to be the Risk Management Plan and the municipal and outlying plans... to make the right decisions for the final completion of the outstanding works, necessary to prevent and avoid the risk of floods that are already contemplated in the project and plans. Well, with regard to the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, we have tabled - I say again - in the absolutely constructive motion, which we made after - I say again - the interesting question we raised to Mr. Vice-Lehendakari, a motion, and we have understood that it could be a motion, an initiative to boost the action of the Government and the action of other institutions. I believe that it is well-framed, also in what that action has to be, and, well, and that it also serves to put in order and put a baton to the role of the different institutions and administrations that have to start working, after also seeing certain delays, that, well, we are not going to talk about responsibilities, but that they are there. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u81	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nokerzka, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u82	[[Microphone Off spoke]] Well, that in Euskadi rains is not an abnormality. We are lucky to live in a region where we have rarely had problems with lack of water. What is an abnormality is that there is a period of 20 days of precipitation followed by that in December. And, as a result of climate change, these extreme weather events will become more and more common in the coming years, generating flood problems, aggravated by the pressure that society and the city exert on the rivers' own channels. Along with erosion and loss of plant cover in the watershed, the pressure - in many cases - of developmentist real estate is ultimately what induces these catastrophic effects. These are, and not others, the most common causes of flooding episodes and other problems such as those we have experienced in various Basque populations over the past few months. The buildings and infrastructure that occupy and invade the flood plain reduce the drainage capacity of the canals and make people and goods exposed to the growing recurring. On the other hand, the classical channels accelerate the passage of water in the areas in which it is built, and move the problem, usually aggravated, downstream. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we believe that after the severe floods in the Kadagua or in the Zadorra continue as until now we feel insufficient. From our group we understand that the effects of the climate crisis are crystallizing, and they are going to give more floods, and we believe that they are going to be of greater gravity. Therefore, the need to work to mitigate them is indispensable. The current pace of works carried out by URA is not the right one: URA prioritizes works against floods according to the danger and the damage that this flood can cause. There is an area of areas with significant potential flood risk, called – I think – popularly ARPSIs, which are those areas marked as clearly floodable and where the damage caused, both human and material, are high. However, under this definition, most of the works end up going to large population or industrial centres, which coincide with the Basque capitals. Most of the works carried out in the surroundings of Bilbao, San Sebastián and Vitoria, and yet the small nuclei with high risk of flooding see the works of their localities delayed, or, finally, never arrive. We believe that being small centres should not be a handful to carry out the works that are essential for these populations, and from the Basque Parliament we call on the Basque Government to boost the works and accelerate the investments. Therefore, while we agree that in general the Basque Water Agency is not doing bad work, we believe that URA does not have sufficient economic resources to accelerate the work and resolve all areas at risk of flooding in a short period of time. In this sense, and according to the constructive pace followed to date, we have doubts as to what dates the Basque Government is running in order to have completed all these works against floods, including the small villages. What year are we talking about? 2025? 2030? For having some reference. We must invest more and accelerate the works. More so in a climate change scenario, where meteorological impacts are occurring faster than calculated. We are aware that the Basque Water Agency is already considering climate change on flood risk maps. What we are not so clear about is how fast these maps are being updated. And in this respect, we are dealing with our second amendment: we call for 100 % of flood risk maps to be updated and structural and non-structural measures to be established in line with these maps. It is key to have these maps well defined so that structural measures such as large works, or non-structural ones based on spatial planning, are adequate. We know that URA is in it. What is clear to us - as I have said before - is whether this update has been completed; hence our insistence on updating these maps and adapting the measures... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...we know that URA is in it. What we are not clear about, as I have said before, is whether they have completed this update. Hence our insistence that these maps be updated and that measures be adapted to present and future reality. So, from Elkarrekin we can be convinced... From Elkarrekin we can be convinced... our third amendment... We believe that from Elkarrekin We can, and we are convinced of it, that Iberdrola should do something more than what he is currently doing in the reservoirs of Ullibarri Gamboa dam. The dam in rainy times serves as a brake for flooding downstream and performs a very clear function of cushioning the damage; since, on many occasions, it embalts much more than it disbalts. However, the structure of the dam itself overly limits the ability to disembark. The dam's quota is 546 metres, however, the dam's quota is 544 metres; that's when the gates are opened. That is, the company only disembalzes when it is just two meters above the level. A margin, in our view, too narrow and difficult to manage the dam. And it does, of course, create situations that could have been avoided if more space had been released. Thus reducing the impacts downstream, ranging from Durana to Abetxuko, for example; they are the ones who have had enough problems. When it was urged to improve the management capacity of the reservoirs, Iberdrola had not been disturbed by the Basque Government. And the excuse has always been that doing works on the dam, on the wall of the dam, is very expensive. But from our group we also think that it is not necessary to do works on the wall of the dam, but that it could be done by means of a canal or a baipás, and thus to lower the quota of disembalse to a height at which it can be managed better. And this solution is not so expensive, and it would make it much better to manage the dam. In a climate change scenario, we cannot say no, and nothing can be done; it is up to us to do the works and adapt to the possibility of greater flooding. And Ullibarri Ganboa's prey isn't doing it. That is why we believe that at this point the flood risks that the next climate crisis is going to bring us, this climate crisis that we are living in, it is necessary to increase URA's budgets, and it is not being done. Structural and non-structural measures must be increased in both flood risk areas, and we do not know how this situation is. And we also need to adapt our infrastructure to climate change. And here we are referring to the dam of Ullibarri Ganboa, which has not adapted since 1956. For this reason, I would also like to end by expressing my solidarity - in my name and in the name of my group - with all those people who have seen their homes damaged or destroyed by the recent floods and with all those people who year after year see their streets drowned and overflowing, also causing destruction not only in the productive sphere but also in the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u84	President. Ladies and gentlemen. We share with Mr Barrio that all floods - and in particular the last ones - require a public policy of prevention and risk avoidance. And we also share the need to continue with the public works that help this and the need to work in coordination with the other institutions in this area. In the same way that you also share that from a time to this part we live in a certain uncertainty regarding the effects of climate change, the duration and intensity of some temporary ones. And I say this not to highlight the difficulties of this task, which also, but above all to raise our awareness and to raise our awareness of action against climate change, on which we still have some margin, less and less, so that this does not get any worse and that we do not have to face even more catastrophic consequences. But having said this, as you also know, acknowledge and accept in the compromise amendment, there are tools to deal with this, which have long been established and which are being improved, reviewed and refined not only on their own criteria, but also on criteria from the European Union and its directives. Thus, the hydrological plan is framed in a strategic vision, where a social, ecological and sustainable productive model is enhanced. A plan related to the 2019 European Green Pact for a Europe neutral in emissions, in the absence of pollution, the preservation and recovery of ecosystems and biodiversity and in efficiency in the use of clean energy or in the promotion of the circular economy. All these aspects and fundamental elements, decisive, of significance for what we call the effects of climate change. A sustainable and fair transition model that improves human well-being, respectful of the environment and in which no one is left behind. And these are also policies present and necessary in hydrological planning. Hydrological plans, in addition you know they are public, which are binding on both public administrations and private individuals. In addition, we have the Flood Risk Management Plan that is reviewed, as I said before, just like the Hydrological Plan, and updated periodically at six-year intervals. It also foresees flood risks in relation to what can affect human and material risks. A plan that is due to the fact that natural flood zones, as Mr Angulo also said, have been occupied by industrial populations and other vulnerable elements. And so, there are rivers, streams and coastal strip that, well, it has been removed from its natural space. And, therefore, these populations, these industries and these vulnerable elements often act by accelerating the effects and risks of floods. There is, as you know... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... They often act by accelerating the effects and risks of floods. There is, as you know, also a European Union Flood Directive, which affects not only floods but also potential risks. Our orography is sensitive to atmospheric phenomena. Not only to the best known in recent decades, but also to the impact, as I said earlier, of climate change, which more often turns the ordinary into extraordinary and the usual into extreme. Currently, and as a preventive measure, efforts are being made to limit land use in flooded areas. And that's why flood risk management plans not only work on prevention, protection, preparedness, recovery and assessment, flood forecasting and early warning, they even work on future scenarios for worsening climate change. Therefore having tools, having also an increasingly adjusted and measured policy to avoid flooding and to avoid everything that causes flooding, we would make this amendment, which has later become a transactional amendment, where also to make... with reference to something that Mr Angulo has said about capacity, and I also believe that you, from URA, in this amendment not only urge the Basque Water Agency but also all the public institutions that have competence, that is, it is concerted action on the basis of those hydrological and risk-forecasting, risk-management plans, in which all administrations are to act. Therefore, we have the observatory of things to do, we have the plans, we have the powers in the public administrations, we have the agencies to act on them, and, well, the budgetary condition will have to give preference to one action over another because all at the same time cannot be done, but surely the best flood risk plan will be that we really face climate change and try not to go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u85	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u86	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, all of you. Good afternoon. Congressman, ladies and gentlemen. Chiefs of Investigation. When we're leaving the plague behind, facing climate change, it's inevitable priority. For the sake of all of us, and for the sake of those who are to come, we have to do what is in our power to make the transition effective in the neurotic, to strengthen and preserve the protection of the environment and of the inheritance of nature. And the climateal change of water for environmental protection is important in the most important cases. I'm afraid we need to increase the ability to face the effects that the climate change will produce, and that's what you're doing. For the past few months, Eukadin's three floods have been recorded and independent of each other. From the end of November until the beginning of December there were several rain fronts. Although the intensity of precipitation had not been particularly large in the scale of hours, there had been a considerable accumulation in several days. After a few days of significant valuation, there happened another rainy event at the beginning of January. This concatenation of periods of rain has been described as extraordinary by Euskalmet for the continuous form and a succession of adverse weather situations. Unfortunately, we cannot refuse to repeat them in the near future. To do this, to be ready, you must continue your work. But we don't start from scratch. This part of Euscadic is a pioneer in the prevention of dangers. The system which basically depends on the prevention of danger, on the four legs, such as prevention, protection, training and recovery and evacuation. Prevention by an organizational policy that includes criteria of danger in the development of cities. Defect against floods by many means, making the country more resilient in front of the currents of the river. Prepare the weather forecast and activate a special emergency plan, i. e. the hydro-meorological network, preview and alert system and system co-ordinate with civil protection tracking. And finally, recovery and evacuation. These are the measurements to recover normality after a flood, and the analysis after the event to set the results in the management of the danger. Flood risk management in Euskadi is carried out from the point of view of measures to protect the population and vulnerable low-risk economic activity, consisting of structural measures that require significant investment, and from the point of view of preventive measures, both hydrometeorological prediction and early warning mechanisms, as well as interlinking water and urban policies. The measures of structure which have been effected have been shown that they are effective in these floods, or that they have, in other words, a high degree of convenience in the defence and economic terms of the population. In like manner, the measures that are not of structure are fundamental, preventive, prevention of the use and consent of the soil; that is to say, a guarantee not to produce new and dangerous spaces, and even pronostic and warning. Both types of measures are part of the Flood Risk Management Plans, PGRI, which are also reflected in the hydrological plans. The historical liability of current vulnerable population and economic activity sites at risk entails such an economic mortgage that will always be desirable the maximum economic disposition, of course. But I believe that we must value what has been done and what is intended to be done. We can't forget that... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...maximum economic disposition, of course. But I believe that we must value what has been done and what is intended to be done. We cannot forget that in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi 250,000 inhabitants reside in areas vulnerable to flooding, nor that with the actions and works carried out by URA, they have contributed to an 18% reduction of the population exposed to the risk of flooding, and 16% of the annual economic damage during the first cycle, between 2015 and 2021, of the implementation of the Flood Risk Management Plan. To this end, a total of EUR 92.6 million has been invested, of which each euro invested avoids spending almost two, 1.9 million on damages. We encourage URA to continue to improve the rest of the organizations that are Basque and handy, in order to rectify the transaction we've agreed with the Popular-Ciudadans. And, by the way, I thank Mr. Barrio for the good behaviour he's shown to make this arrangement. With regard to Elkarrekin's amendment We can, we shared part of what they said, not everything, obviously. With regard to Ullibarri Gamboa's dam, Mr Angulo, which you have spoken about long and laid here too, I know that you have an imperative need, an irrefutable need to link the Basque Government with Iberdrola and dark chanchullos, which you cannot avoid. That your thing is clear that it's not love, it's obsession. But look, the Ullibarri Gamboa reservoirs are neither the responsibility of the Basque Government nor of Iberdrola, they are the responsibility of the Ebro Hydrographic Conference. And you can use Google or any kind of free software, and if you enter and enter "Ebro Hydrographic Conference" you will see up on the left a small logo that says "Government of Spain, Vice-President Third Government", etc., etc., etc. There are no further questions, Your Honor, I mean, you have the custom of bringing to a certain government the possibilities of another in which you participate, cloth. Anyway, we're going back to the rain episodes. Euskalmet said they've been extraordinary, these episodes of (?) avenue have had an extraordinary character. The impact has been lower than in any case, if efficient risk management measures had not been implemented in recent years. But we must continue to improve, we must continue to act. Hobetzen couldn't handle it, garden couldn't handle it. This year, the Flood Risk Management Plan for the 2022-2027 cycle needs to be approved. The PGRI Action Plan must be developed to be developed by all relevant administrations, as always, from collaboration and coordination. It also seems to us a fact to underline that URA plans to allocate around EUR 101 million up to 2027, making progress along this path, with the aim of reducing the population affected by the risk of flooding by 41%, as well as reducing the potential economic damage resulting from these floods by 38%. We must continue to work on the improvement of the hydrometeorological network and of (?) in order to improve the hydrological prediction capacity. The hydrometeorological network needs to be improved, because although the current Euskadi hydrological and meteorological network is made up of 175 stations, it is the densest network in the state, there is still a lack of information. Thus, over the next two years, it is planned to expand this network with five new stations. As I said, must we keep and improve UHATE, (naucasting? with a pattern, which is intended to make short-term ratings, based on the images of Eukalome's cast radar. These predictions will help to improve the Hydrological forecasts of UHATE. After all, we must continue to work on all the factors that minimize and ease the problems caused by injurious meteorology. The change of climate will have a striking effect on the Euscadian flood, including the straits on the coast, and the rise of the sea-level will cause a sure rise of the danger of the flood. The effect which he will pardon in the floods of rivers is still uncertain, though, according to the inquiries which are available, the intensity and magnitude of the floods may sometimes increase in certain situations. URA has spent years in integrated risk management to introduce criteria to these changes. And this must be followed by new measures to enhance the effect of climate changes on dangers, and to improve resilence in new measures. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what we're going to vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u87	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing over to the teams who are running any corrections, Mistya has to take the word, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. There are flood prevention plans, studies of risk zones, works to be carried out, precise assessment of periods of return of avenues, but the floods continue to occur repeatedly in very specific places and in a very special way in the Zadorra as it passes through Vitoria and below. Moreover, as we have seen recently, Cadagua also generates recurring problems as it passes through Alonsotegi, Sodupe and Gueñes. And we could also refer to the rivers Oria and Bidasoa in days of strong and sustained precipitation or strong thawing. Having said that, it seems clear that action to prevent such incidents is a matter that depends on political decisions, to prioritize such actions over others, and thus to resolve recurring problems, which also generate substantial economic losses that put people's lives at risk and which create avoidable discomfort. One positive thing in the transaction that has been signed is the necessary coordination of the competent administrations in this field, from the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation to the Basque Water Agency, the Basque Government, the municipalities concerned. And I say this because works in one place can avoid problems in another, but they can also aggravate existing ones. Planning... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ...affected. And I say this because works in one place can avoid problems in another, but they can also aggravate existing ones. The existing planning, the proposals for solutions, of course, as well as the projects with their corresponding budgets. Thus, and as the Basque Water Agency itself recognizes, the question is whether or not they are executed, after assessing the benefits that could be obtained and the disposition of existing money, which is also finite and scarce for forecasting floods. We wonder how the neighbours of the municipalities affected by the recurrent floods downstream of the reservoir, for example, of Ullibarri Gamboa, that this government devotes huge amounts of money to ideological projects, propaganda, euskaldunization, while water remains a real threat every time we need to disembalze upstream. And at this point I would ask all of you a question. Do we all agree that it is better to prevent than to cure?, do we agree all here that it is better to spend on preventive works and recognized as necessary, than to do it in repairing damages that should not be produced, which are also avoidable? In Vox, we consider it a priority and urgent to act to avoid the damage they cause periodically. We know what needs to be done and what would be the benefit, lack of decision and commitment, investing in what is necessary and not in what is indispensable. That is why we will support this amendment signed by PP, PSOE and PNV. It seems to us that it is an initiative that lacks, for example, temporary concretion, something that would be important to collect, that is, to determine a maximum date for carrying out the works that have been planned. But, as it is worth little more than nothing, trusting that this declaration of intent will soon be translated into budgetary commitments and concrete deadlines, we will give our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u89	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u90	Good noon, thank you, everyone again. I think that's what I said, right? that this little town of ours has always some anxiety about the floods. We have known tragically what the effect of the floods has been, and it is evident that this increase of the metorological phenomena which are to come to us in the future compels us to have a most attentive eye all the time. It's a small, anthropised, highly artificialized country, where we've occupied the roads of streams or rivers in many cases, and now we've got a lot of serious problems. It seems to us that we must take it seriously, and I don't know what's going on today. I think that three − and not two from three epic floods, when the water had not left completely in the second, the Poptular party tried to raise his head in some way, and he made an interjection to Mr. Erkoe, well, not around the oc, but about the works, and how things were being done in this emergency context. Explanations were given, and afterwards, as we requested, the Director of the URA Agency and so forth came to explain them, and many things, better examined, detected, and done, were to be done. Bath interpelazio horretatik abiatuta edo larrialdien ikuspuntutik etorri zelako, agian, batha gero mozioa etorri zen. Eta egia esan behar dut, aitortu behar dut mozioaren testua irakuri genuine aho bete hortz generated your knee. Because the People's Party does, well, because that emergency inquiry when the topic is on the pile, and then it presents a motion in which it proposes that the outstanding works be done within the framework of the Special Emergency Plan in the face of the risk of floods, of course, which made us completely stupefied, you can imagine, right? One who has been a cook before a friar, who as a firefighter I know perfectly well about the Flood Risk Emergency Plan, because of course, the works that can be done from there do not go beyond moving sandbags so that they do not enter the water in some places. I mean, I guess you're not talking about this, are you? The thing is that it arises in this way, and of course, in the end it is put to the vote of the government parties to say: no, man, no, this, no, what needs to be done is to follow the hydrological planning framework, the flood risk management planning framework, as is evident, and you have no other remedy left than to be forced to accept practically what the government parties say, because if you come here today to defend what you said, it will be something that is ridiculous. And I think there's a lot of things you should talk about, but it's not exactly the middle line that's accepted today, is it? Evidente, we are not opposed to what is said to-day, that is to say, to make works in the proper frame, which is normal. But we have to do more than enough. And I think the following events of floods leave some examples to us, too, don't they? Alde battik, eta Podemosek −eta hor ados gaude, what happens is that ez gara bozketa horretara iritsiko − uste dute asmatzen duela uholdegarritasun maparen aktuualizazio bat eman behar dela, ze uholde hauetan gertatu gives that the return periods for 100 and 500 years, that is, that the possibility of a flood event occurring in 500 years, in some cases, as in Portal de Gamarra has happened, and in the return period of 100 years has happened in many points of our geography. With this, it is clear that we need an update of flood maps. and as the law of climate and energy will soon follow, I think it will require a special chapter of the treatment of water in this law; for in the end it is to work in the adaptation of climate, to resist the gravity of the flood, and to do the works which are required. Eta gero esaten zen, Prieto jaunak esaten zuen, that there are hydrological plans and that hydrological plans are binding. Obviously, and that links with another of the points proposed by Podemos, which is to increase the budget allocations of the Basque Water Agency. Eta nik you had to be her garrantzitsua, zen lan asko ditugu pending, ore duele strikes asko egin ez direnak... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] Agencia Vasca del Agua. And I think this is important, too, because we've got a lot of jobs that haven't been done for years. And, clarro, in the '20s of 2010, Popular Party was in the Spanish government, and the money that had to come to fill the hydrological city plan didn't come. And on the other hand, since you're in the government, 2009, 2010, they gave the water around 80 million dollars a year for investments. Then 2012. For years, since you came in, the URA agency has had very large presupuestary restrictions, and what's happening to us is that we've been delayed and delayed by the works. What I mean is that in this context, in this context of floods, the Director of URA and the chairman of the Arzi Tapia are once more to announce investments about 100 million times, and so on. to do the works. But it's curious, very curious, and it's happening to us all over again and again, that the works which have long been prescribed are once more promised, isn't it? For instance, in Guernica, such as Azpein, Mugian, or Zadore 3rd and 4th, and the South Batan and Zapardiel, the works to be done about the problems of the rivers. In the year 2006, they were announced in the year 2022, and there are still a few of them, but there are still others who aren't as good as you. And the planning framework that Mr Prieto was talking about in 2015-2021, ended precisely in 2021. It is now in the third planning cycle. There are many of the works that are now being proposed as great novelty and great investment by the Basque Government, which indeed because of that binding character that you said you had to be, had to be completed. Beraz, you have aurrekontu kontu bat yes. Gutxi gorabehera badakigu zenbat kostatzen duten obrek, bathe good hour straight (...) atzeratzen eta atzeratzen joan da, eta honek arazo batzuk ematen diskigu. For example, the Basque Water Agency made it very clear that the floods, which I suppose that part would affect many, because coming to Gasteiz by car suffered a lot, whether it was the exit to the National 622 to Bilbo, was flooded for a few days. And (...) what he was telling us was that that part had flooded, because the phases one and two of defense of the herd had been made, had been completed successfully, let's say. But they were carrying the problem down. The phase of Abetxuko, Yurre, Crispijana, Gobeo, etc.... All that's not done, it's not done. And the water ends up looking for its site and ends up generating the problem elsewhere. This is based on the non-compliance with the 2012 URA-Vitoria City Council framework agreement, which is supposed to end the four phases and the problem of the southern rivers between 2013 and 2020. With this, of course, it must be done, but I simply find that it is not being done. That's why I say when I saw your correction, claro, eternal. Like Pirrich and bankrupt. Continue... What is it? Because you do it so well, you tell the water 'cause you do it so well. Put your hands on the waves, fire, fire, fire, right? But I think URA has time to dance, but that's what we have to give him money from the budget. And I also believe that other decisions must be made here, because as long as so much urgent works don't get paid, it's through Spiri that the URA and the money are coming to move another project, both famous. Then in a flooding zone for an industrial polygon. And I think we should have a little change of view here. What if we have learned in some way that the constructions, houses, and buildings, should not be made in the explosive zones, it seems as if we had not yet learnt that lesson with the industrial polygons. And instead of making a small form or wall to defend an airport, we want to build a wall for four miles in a area, which is then impalpable, as I say, to make an industrial polygon. I think it's time for us to change our point of view, and we have as many (... We need to recover the semi-or-cent zone or industrial polygons. And no longer in a country which is highly artificialized. Moreover, in flooding lands, to start building industrial polygons. Eta has been aplikagarria by Jundizeko intermodala, intermodalarekin. The Jundiz intermodal is projected in an area with a 10-year return road. I mean, every ten years we could flood the intermodal so that that wouldn't happen. Once again we will have to be doing defense works, etc., etc. We are not on the side, nor will we vote on the side, because we think that what is said here is very evident, and that we must make a deeper discussion about all these things which I have spoken of. And not to bring in some kind of tramite proposition at last, is it not? On the contrary, we can't argue against it, so we're going to abstain from it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u91	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing to responses turn. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u92	Thank you, President. Very briefly. It's not a processing initiative. I think we have made progress, it is possible that it could have been much deeper, analyzing each and every one of the circumstances, of the places, of the places where an action is needed. But we present an inquiry, and as a result, a motion, right? He is equally angry because we have moved forward in the approach at that time, and we have been able to reach an agreement. We have made some progress, and it is clear that the amendments are amendments. And if there is any error in the original initiative, the best word is the amendment. Well, it's amended, and it's corrected. And we corrected the emergency plan for management plans and hydrological plans. And I think in that sense we've been able to... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ...and it's corrected. And we corrected emergency plans for management plans and hydrological plans. And I believe that in that sense we have been able to reach an agreement. And you also have to acknowledge that the agreement already mentions that administrations are urged to take appropriate decisions to ensure that the necessary and planned actions are taken to prevent, avoid the risk of flooding. We have talked about delays, but those, to take the appropriate decisions in relation to the work, in relation to the budgets, in relation to the planning. And that... I believe that we usually say these things in our initiatives and in our motions and in our GNP. We usually say that. The Government that wanted to continue to continue. We have urged something a little more solid, and we have reached that agreement. That, at least, which is a minimum step, has to recognize it. And there it goes, within the framework of needs. We didn't want to make a bitter fight between... In relation we have already talked about non-compliances, delays. Okay. There may be many administrations involved, but in that sense, we are what we have intended to do, and that is why we have reached that agreement. I thank Mr Prieto and Mr Grajales (...) for having been able to move forward in their initial position, which was a little bit more... for I do not know, not of regression, but of stopping. I mean, we're going to vote now. So I think it's okay in that sense. I am grateful for the amendment to the whole of Mr Angulo. I believe that the first two points can be included in the whole amendment, the compromise amendment, because increasing the investment chapter will go hand in hand with what needs to be done and the right decisions must be taken to carry out those outstanding works. In other words, it will be necessary to link budgets in this regard. And number two, of updating flood risk maps, I think so too. I believe that it is also part of the decision-making process. Point number three, as you have already been told, is a management of the Government of Spain, in which you are fairly well represented, and, then, it is an issue that could be... You may be interested in other agencies, in other areas, in other chambers or in the Spanish Government itself, but in any case it is also an important issue to analyse. I say again that I thank you for the transaction, and I think it has been a small step forward, but move on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Angulo, together Podemos. Yes, from there, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u94	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you all very much for the references. We are not going to vote in favour. We believe that, on the one hand, the amendment is short, and, on the other hand, it is self-congratulation. We are ten years late; ten years late in all kinds of works and infrastructure; ten years that citizens are living with concern every time it rains, every time it rains a little bit longer, citizens are concerned about having to leave the house. And I just found out - that they sent me a message - that there are still people out of the house, since December; people, people close to me, people close to me. That's why I think it's worrying. I don't have any obsession or conspiracy. And yes, I do bring a debate that has been taking place in Vitoria. Because I did go to the Internet - as Mr. Grajales told me - and I looked for a little bit, and I realized that it is true: the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro is the one that makes the reservoirs. But there is a commission of embalming where Amvisa participates, and the Basque Government also participates. And there, on several occasions, the quota has been reduced. And, on several occasions, for political reasons, it has been said no. So what I come here is to urge this political action to ask for the quota to be cut and for more organized disembals to be made, which do not have to reach 98% of the capacity of a reservoir, so that the misfortunes that are happening do not happen. Nothing more, mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr Price mustn't speak. Mr. Grakiles? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u96	Yeah. Thank you again, Madame Committee. Very short. But I'm more comfortable here than that. Mr Angulo, I am surprised by you and you have discovered that in the Board too, despite the decision of the Ebro Hydrographic Conference, Amvisa, Municipal Waters of Vitoria-Gasteiz Sociedad Anónima - a company in which I was a counselor many years ago - participates, and the Basque Government too. Now, I am surprised that you say whether or not it comes from the outbursts for political reasons. That's what he said. So, yes, I would like you to at some other time, if you can, explain to me what political reasons can lead the Basque Government, the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Hydrographic Conference of the Ebro - Iberdrola has fallen into operation - to take such decisions on the basis of political criteria. I've known Mr. Aguiz, the director of the URA, for years. And I think he's a smart guy who can work and do a lot of things. But he who is not a magician is like you. Everything that's been there, all handwriting, everything the river's done before, the divestism left by frankism... You don't do that with a magic barit, do you? That's what you need for years' attempts, years of work, action and planning. 'Cause here it looks like they're coming... Oh, this has been here since 2006. Of course, the country is here, and quite before; probably, from the Big Bang. And we have said this: the liability of current vulnerable population and economic activity sites at risk is such an economic mortgage that it will always be desirable for URA to take everything away from it. Everything, because we have what we have, and we have the past that we have, and the things that have been done have been done. But... except I'm not going into a budget debate, and less with you, I don't owe you, or you don't owe me. Things have to be done little by little. Of course, we've known everything since 2006... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ...and less with you, I don't owe you, or you don't owe me. Things have to be done little by little. Of course, we already know from 2006 everything that had to be done. So what? Have you been holding your arms together? No, no, In the previous five-year plan, approximately EUR 100 million has been invested, and in the next 100 more will be added. Y ha querido believed, señor Otera, en bello me lo ha dichodod le voy a respondero maybe. Look, I'll answer another song, you mention Pirrich and bankrupt, I'll tell you about the Oskodic team. They say Oskori had gone to Georgia for a long time, −Atlanta, Georgia not, that was in the first RSS, and that they had heard and liked music. Then they found out that it was Stalin's favourite song, and they stayed a little like that, but they gave him a nice letter. And one of these says, 'The old man is not what he has been but what he has been for a long time.' And what we vote here today is not a initial correction that we vote for. 'One-half-way.' And besides, I know that you don't have any trouble with this middle-class medium, because you could just throw it out calmly because it's not against what you think. But I often understand that political necessity and the decision of the moment bring such things. But to finish that song, I wait for your answer, it's your turn to follow me today. Yeah, come on, let's throw him out and live in peace forever.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Is the missile going to take the word? No. And meet EH, Mr. Otero, it's yours. Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u98	From there, if you'll excuse me. I have nothing new to say. Think about what I'm saying, I think, and I think the planning should be a little more serious, don't it? I remember in the previous law that we brought a proposition to URA, which was then in the hands of Sozialists, and we asked him to arrange an integral plan for all these things. Waiting, waiting, waiting, we waited, and at last he did not come. What I'm saying alone today is that, well, sin mahs, there's nothing bad that's accepted here, you're asking him to do it. But I'm saying, without asking for this, wasn't he going to do it? Isn't it? Asikae, we don't anticipate anything concrete, do we? It seems to me, and I have already mentioned, that there are some things that would be very interesting to discuss and admit them. And it's the money URA needs, and it's true that we're not going to discuss the budgets, but the budget, is it? Presupustos son amores y no hoenas razones this case, right? But, as far as I'm concerned, there's some things I think we need to discuss. And I think... ) We are about to make an error around the industrial polygon. Limited budgets are, but perhaps, in another place where necessary, we can make some investments a little faster through URA, not for the benefits and interests of SPRIO, and with the money of SPRI, in the end, for a new industrial polygon. And that's how you consider the same with the Judices or other places. I think there's still a lot of work ahead of you. And it seems to me, rather than to continue the march until now, that the true fulfillment of what I'm telling you gets to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. We'll vote for the Pascal PopularCanos, the Euscal Socialists, and the middle-line corrections signed by Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters of the league are 48; the opponents are 6,6; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u100	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "To propose as to the law of Parliament, as to the agreement made by the Catholic Church and the Spanish Government on the property Impressed. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Estarrona, the representative of the EHG, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon, good afternoon to all. He's been talking a lot about the Catholic church lately, having sexual abuses, the scandal of the magnetisms, and both of them have a common element on the basis, and I'd like to bring him a first thought here today. Many things the Catholic Church has done for years, many things she's done, by means of the supreme power. A la Iglesia Católlica sus dolores de poder le ollavado a un permente abus de la selfridad, de abso del ponder. And even in the root of the substance of immunations, there is power. So let this first reflection first go, and I think it is important to express clearly and be clear from the beginning, in order to determine how to deal and how to deal with the subject. So let's not lose our perspective. And we, and we, will always stand in opposition to the works made in these parameters, be the church, be anyone. And this does not deprive the Church of the confession of the Church, and especially of the Christian believers, who have done nothing good for society; but it must be plain throughout history, that Catholic churches have been continually employed in a variety of places by the supreme power for years. It shouldn't be a mistake, but... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... that the Catholic Church has constantly exercised the supreme power in different districts for years. We must not be mistaken, but we must be clear and present, even in this discussion of ours. And it must always be remembered that, in 1946, the dictator of Franco, had introduced a clause in the Law of Hippotec, in order that the bishops should compare the highest churches with the Notaries of the State. But today, don't worry, it's time to calm down, because it's no longer possible to make a complete sequence of events around immutations, at least I'll save you that. I shall only bring here the final event of the whole sequence, which is somehow the reason for our enterprise, which justifys our enterprise. And the last incident is, in an image, a plasma in an image. This is Cardinal Omella, head of Episcopic Conference, and Peter Sánchez with the President of the Spanish Kingdom. Around the legacy Immatetuated, Sáncheen's government is the final agreement made on the 24th of January, January −2022, which has passed with the Catholic Church. Today, and as I have said, the reason for dealing with the question of immunities in the legislature. And that's why we're doing it. An agreement that in the different heritage platforms against registrations have considered unabated and scandalous. It is not an agreement of which they have made a negative assessment or more in disagreement or less in agreement: they have described it directly as intractable and scandalous. They have termed it "paño", "paño" agreed between the Sánchez government and the Catholic Church, in order to legalize the appropriation of almost 100,000 goods. 100,000 goods that have been registered directly by bishops for many decades. And we and we, in addition to sharing that reading, want to add - for something we are also in a Parliament in a debate between political groups - that this is another renunciation - and we are not too surprised at this stage - of the countless complaints that the Socialist Party has made throughout its long history. He has kneeled, and in what way, before the Episcopal Conference. And it is that it has sealed an agreement, it has sealed an agreement with the Episcopal Conference, by which it recognizes that it is not a legitimate owner of 965 properties that it named in its name between 98 and 2005 with the latest reform of the current new president of the FAES, and it renounces with this agreement the recovery of tens of thousands of public goods. But, it is that, moreover, for more inri, those 965 goods, which in addition the bishops are willing to return, in reality they do most of them to religious orders, so the property remains in the hands of the Church. And this has a direct reading on the one hand and an indirect reading on the other, the direct reading. A direct reading and consequence following this agreement: where is the Socialist Party's word? Where remains its credibility when it promised, and is thus reflected in its programmatic commitment, a legislative reform to reverse the registrations practiced by the Catholic Church for having been implemented under clearly unconstitutional regulations? Where is your word after this registered amnesty agreed with the Episcopal Conference? That for us is direct reading and a direct consequence after this agreement. But then there's an indirect, and it's a conclusion. It is an implicit recognition following this agreement that seems important to us to bring it up, and it is that the Church admits for the first time, for the first time in this litigation of registrations, that it took possession of goods that were not her own, which highlights the registration privilege she has used for decades: it provided an advantage without legal guarantees, and manifestly arbitrary. And this compact, as I have said, this incomprehensible agreement, beginning from the title, has been that which has led us to present this just proposition. In the other proposition of ours as well as ours, I will not extend too far, but the first three points are around this pacto, the next two points are those which the legislature makes two specific requests, that is to say, the inventory and the interest of the people of the EAE population, which we brought in, and which was not the last in dispute, and which in the last place, is a request made to the Spanish Government, that is, to start all legal and judicial actions, between them, between which there is an agreement between them, an agreement between them, a general agreement, and some political agreement, and the last of which are here to discuss. But now, owing to this compact, it seems that there will be no nobility for it either. And, as I have said, in the last discussion, the last discussion we had here in the parliament, we have received elements which were not admitted, as you see, in the matter of negotiation, with the intention of agreeing, whether, as we have said, the subject had been discussed and accepted for the last time. But there has been no room for negotiation, because you have no corrections from the party in the state which you have an absolute majority, so that you shut up the doors to − agustome− negotiation, and then our margin is even reduced to this point. And that's why... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... You shut it up somehow. And then our margin is even reduced to this sense. And that's why, if we look at the possibilities, we put down half-way for a minimum room. We've signed together with the Podemos-Nozzue team, the one party that's running the middle-line correction. And what we have already stated at this minimum moment is at least the parliamentary platform against the impimacular platforms, shameful, scandalous, and scandalous. As I have explained, in the end, we have recourse to the minimum whether there is a chance of taking over the legislature at least today, and we believe that this parliamentary lawyer, we believe, and we believe he can't afford it. He can't. He can't, among other things, turn his back to the people for some ecclesiastical elites. No puede daor este Parlamento el aval ante apuño que el ele Sánchez del Gobierno de Espanña con la Conferencia Episcoal, porque supondría nal a muchísima gente de est ae país. So we hope that minimum minimisimo is accepted. To take a position in front of this anonymous Amnisty, it will not be much compared to what we originally presented, for if this minimum is not admitted at bottom and I am going to end at the beginning, it will be the foundation of another triumph of the supreme power of the Catholic Church, in spite of the abuse of impeachments. Con la Iglesia hemos a toast.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u102	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos Anther, the woman of hate, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u103	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, actually, it's only four months since the Catholic Church had discussed in this parliament another proposal of impeachment than it has done in a few decades. And here we are again. After so little time, we're here again, taking the same point. It was after this procession that a strange report came to us: Presidence, correspondence with the Courts, and the Ministry of Democratic Memory, on the one hand and on the other the epic conference, together with them, announced that the following analysis was given: that there is no appetite for a third, or for the Church. That is, about a thousand goods registered by the Catholic Church belong to a third party or there is no record of ownership of the Church. And here I can't help but recall Mr. Gordillo's reticence at that session when he felt that using the word "indebted" when talking about church registrations was not correct. Of course I believe that with this last statement on the table it seems obvious, that of course, not all those registrations were what is said to be regular. And it turns out that sometimes not only does not contain any title, nor does it contain a cadastral certificate, but sometimes directly belong to third parties and were registered by the Catholic Church. But, alas, what he could hope for is true; we have long since accused this reality-that is to say, that the Catholic Church in Spain, and Eucharin, have immutated the goods by the grace of God. At the time, the anomaly of the registrations carried out by bishops with notarial powers, and also came to the European Court of Human Rights, which qualified, not all in general, but the one that was submitted to arise in his opinion, qualified the registration of the Catholic Church as a continuous and massive violation of the rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and therefore condemned the Spanish State to pay compensation of 615,000 euros. For the struggle of so many platforms, heritage associations... We are pleased that there is at last an official recognition by the Government of Spain of the irregularity of a thousand registrations made by the Catholic Church between 1998 and 2015. At the same time, however, we join the criticism that has been put on the table, so it was also said, by so many patrimonialist collectives and that we support here. We don't think that's enough. We find this statement, this recognition, insufficient. Firstly, because the starting point was already short. We said it in November and we repeat it again, on the one hand, the list sent to Congress by the Government of Spain numbered about 35,000 the goods registered by the Church between 1998 and 2015 throughout the State. However, and on the contrary, the overall figures of registrations at the state level are estimated at 100,000 according to the data offered by the Berreskuratuz-Recovering platform. And we landed this data to our autonomous community, the number of goods included in the list of the Government of Spain was 81, compared to 530 of those we have... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... our autonomous community, the number of goods included in the list of the Government of Spain was 81, compared to 530 of which we are aware of the documentation that was submitted at the time by the Basque Government itself. On the other hand, and also in relation to the starting point, the temporary framework did not meet expectations, since the revision of the registrations should have started at least in 1978. We know that the mandate of Congress spoke of the period 98-2015. However, it should have been more ambitious given that registrations are widely questionable since the entry into force of the Constitution. We therefore believe that it would have been desirable to extend the temporal scope of the study in order to be truly guarantors in the claim of the recovery of our assets. Finally, with these premises it was difficult for the conclusions of the analysis to be satisfactory in terms of numbers. But it also happens that the Government's agreement with the Episcopal Conference is flawed, let us say, also from the point of view, no longer just of the content, but also formal or procedural. And that is why we included in our amendment the mention of partiality. And I say this because an analysis of this stalemate required the impartiality and neutrality that can hardly be guaranteed by a bilateral commission between the Episcopal Conference and the Government. The paradox is served because it turns out that the study of the registrations due to the good faith shown by the Catholic Church, which is precisely the same as for years has carried out these improper registrations. A good faith, therefore, quite questionable in this matter. At the same time, we believe that a proactive attitude on the part of the institutions of the State and of the Basque institutions in this area is essential - and this is also not reflected in what has been made known to us. And it is not enough to leave local entities to their fate when we know that, of the two ways of claiming property, the judiciary is the most complex and the most expensive. The forecast in the joint press release between the ministry and the Episcopal Conference is not enough. We stress once again that it is essential to draw up a bill articulating a comprehensive solution to the issue of improper registration. This is our demand, of the most important, even today, today. In this bill, we believe that the following should be envisaged. On the one hand, automatically cancel all seats practiced with ecclesiastical certification because they are null and void. Also retrotract the ownership of all the property registered by the Catholic Church to its previous registered status, in order to substantiate the recovery for the public domain of those who proceed or others who correspond with the bona fide title. Also determine... , finally, determine what are the criteria to qualify our public domain heritage and proceed to its cataloguing and registration. I'll conclude that the question of the immunciations which the Catholic Church has made in Spain and in Spain, as we were told before, is only a question of feeling, for us, it is a matter of justice, and it is a constitutional matter, because the prerogatives of a particular religion are torn from the principle of laity. And to overcome this is to abandon it, is our constitutional duty. And on the other hand, it is to defend public property. This, to defend the public inheritance, is a thing, a democratic and legal thing. I'd like to thank Josu Estarrona EH Shades on the table... or because he gave us a chance to talk about this subject. And thank you also for taking our text and proposing a medium, simple but very clear medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Before focusing on the issue raised by EH Bildu, I will stop at that precisely, in which it is this group that intends to stand up for the interests of the citizenry. A hypocrisy exercise I can't get used to. Today the object of his wrath is the Church. On Tuesday it was my party, to which this formation wanted to deny the rights that the law and the Rules of this House recognize. A few weeks ago, the state's security forces and bodies. A continuous attack on their usual enemies, who are objective and target of their particular independenceist hatred. Once again, we are presented with a succession of convictions that arrive without trial or trial. In this case attacking the Church and questioning the agreement reached between the Church and the Government of Spain for the regularization of about a thousand registered properties which, it seems, present some kind of irregularity. According to the data available to us, there are almost 35,000 registered property under review, of which only 1,000 presents problems, and which at the end will be those that will be properly registered recognizing what is their legal property. And that's where the problem ends, at least for our point of view. But the intention is another - in this case coincident with that of Podemos in addition -: to take advantage of any opportunity presented to stain the image of the Church. The same is true of judges who make judgements contrary to their interests, of the State's security forces and bodies, ultimately of their own enemies. And it is precisely the case of Podemos the most surprising. The agreement to which we are referring was reached by the Church and the Government of Spain, the one to which We are party. And in view of the latest developments, it appears that, instead of being part of the Government, it is part of the opposition. Moreover, in its amendment it invites the Basque Parliament to urge the government... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ...part, and in the light of recent events, it seems that, instead of being part of the Government, it is part of the opposition. Moreover, in its amendment it invites the Basque Parliament to urge the Government of Spain. That government is not one of which you are a part, something that leads us, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, to follow more closely the will of Bildu in this House than the party with which you govern in Spain. As we have already done in Madrid and will do in any autonomous Parliament, we defend that in the Property Registry the real owners of any kind of real estate, solar, land or temple are included. That's what it has to be. In this case, the Church and Government of Spain have located a thousand properties registered by it, which in reality present inconsistencies. And it's okay to regularize your situation. Moreover, the Church argues that this thousand are property belonging to other people or does not know that they are hers, even if they are registered in her name. If only 1,000 of the 35,000 properties reviewed present irregularities, according to the Government, for what to say, it seems very good to us to regulate it, since the Property Registry must reflect those who are holders of real estate throughout Spain, as is absolutely normal. And so far the problem comes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u106	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Another debate returns to the House, which as one of the previous participants has already established, has recognized that we had not long ago, haven't we?, regarding the registrations of real estate by the Catholic Church. First of all, I thought I understood the... the advocates of this proposal, which was about returning unjustly appropriate property to one's legitimate owners. I think I've understood what the (?) was. initial. They become great defenders of property, welcome to liberalism, this is costing quite, but in the end, welcome to liberalism, and welcome to the defense of private property. What happens is that basically your proposal doesn't do that, your proposal starts with a supposed defense of legitimate owners who don't even say who they are, and that there are enough studies to... we'll remember briefly. Part of that to end up concluding that... because Mrs Gorrotxategi has said, that no, that no, that this must be returned to the public patrimony. Look, this isn't what we were talking about, this isn't what we were talking about. It's been said that... It seems to me that this is part of almost a general cause against the Catholic Church that every time we are dusting, but in the end, and that the Catholic Church is defended as well. I will simply point out some issues, I will remove the issue that has been... with which this debate has begun also talking about sexual abuse and such, and placing it all a little bit in the same place, which I believe is not desirable at all. But it was also said that it was Franco who established, that it was Franco who established what is called the privilege of registration. No, no, since the adoption of the mortgage law and since the creation of the Spanish Property Register at the time, the one under the Ministry of Justice, establishes this issue. What was happening, that the Catholic Church had, in fact, the capacity to register goods other than temples. The temples were excepted, the temples were considered (?)). I mean, issues or things that were out of the trade of men, in this case, because they were divine things, I could only do it with goods that were... I mean, they weren't, in this case, temples. What happened is that then the rest of the confessions were able to ask for certificates, but not from the others, could you be certified from those temples, in the end the regulations were actually changed, and we are faced with this situation. We have to make a clarification that sometimes goes unnoticed. The power to register, or what is the registration of an asset, does not generate the right to own property itself; that is, the right to own property is earlier, what the Property Registry does, I insist again, is simply to show who is the legitimate owner in this case of a immovable property. What happens in this case, because in Spain, and it is true, the records and records of the property historically because historically they are a little disastrous. Spain is the only country in the European Union that maintains... well, I think Italy also in some sense maintains two different registers, the register for tax purposes, which is that of the cadastre, that of the Ministry of Finance, and the register of property, which is that of the Ministry of Justice. But we've already commented on this. Here what it is about is that if the proponents consider, and if any third party considers, precisely because it has been made public that the Church now proclaims that, in fact, there is a good that says it is their property and (?) there is no registration, if you have a better legal title as you do, make a domain file, which is the way to do it, and carry out the procedure to recover the alleged property. What happens is that what I have heard has been so much that the Church, that abuse of power, that if I don't know how much, that if you privilege, but then I haven't seen either, I haven't seen a family that's been deprived of their home, I haven't seen a private individual that's been deprived of their property. What I think is happening here is that what the proposing groups are seeking is that the goods which the Church has registered become part of, in this case, because directly from the public heritage, which is another debate, is another interesting fact. In France, as you know, churches, temples, etc., were expropriated at the time, which, by the way, is then the state that has to pay maintenance costs. So, if that is the debate, that is another debate. But here again we're mixing things up. The ministry, or rather, the government, here has been talking about 100,000 goods that the Church has registered, and so on, I really haven't seen the 100,000. Yes I have seen in the report, in the study you do (?), a colleague of constitutional law, which is the official report of the Government, of the Ministry of the Presidency, here we speak of 35,000, 34,961 farms, we do not speak of 100,000. Come on, so, let's put things... Then, who could be the supposed holder, whom in this case the Church, according to her argument, would be violating or violating her rights?, is it a private individual? For in the same annex to this report, which I have not brought since it is 5,000 pages, because in fact, they do not appear to be... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ...it's a private one. For in the same annex to this report - which I have not brought because it is 5,000 pages - there do not seem to be any leftover owners either, there are some, but neither are there owners or people who have remained in an unfavourable situation or nothing like it. More like, what's going on? For, man, it is calculated that there are some 40,000 entities that have their own legal personality that form part of the Catholic Church, among brotherhoods, among many bishops - who also have their own legal personality - institutions, colleges, etc. And those have, in fact, property to their... or need property and have property, therefore, registered in their favor. So, I think... let's go, and also that it was the government that took the initiative, through a GNP, a few years ago, in the Congress of Deputies. He has made a report - by the way, a government on whose Council of Ministers I believe representatives of one of the proposing parties feel - and, curiously, this proposal says that it declares completely insufficient and partial the agreement sealed between the Ministry of the Presidency and the Episcopal Conference. I don't know if this is the place to discuss that, but, anyway, I don't mind doing it. The Episcopal Conference itself has identified a number of assets. And in a commission, together with the Ministry of the Presidency, a number of goods have been identified in which the Catholic Church itself says that it lacks another title of ownership other than certification. Hey, this, maybe, could be someone else's. But, I insist again, I have never seen any particular do an exercise of these, but at last. However, he said that he should see whether there was an individual or whether there was another institution or entity that had a better title in law, which, of course, exposed and corrected. It's just... come on, the last time it happened, I don't think it's my job to come here to defend the government of the nation. But, come on, there is an agreement, a joint note has also been published before the Episcopal Conference and the Ministry, in which it is said that there are about 1,000 goods, which is where the doubt is. It's in 1,000 assets the doubt, it's not in those 100,000 either. It's just, of course, we've started talking about 100,000, but in the end it's going to be 1,000. And well... And looking at the list, in the case of the Basque Country - here there are experts on this subject who have been following it for years, now they will tell us - I have also not seen that there were many in the... And besides, it's usually, the dispute is usually, perhaps, between one religious order and another; or it's usually between... Come on, that neither... That is why I believe that the proposal that you are making in the background what you keep and what you hide is something else. It's something else. Which is also, hey, I think it's legitimate to come here to defend almost everything, almost everything. And this I think you can come and argue. But, listen, what you are discussing is that the Catholic Church can have goods in her name, and that she can have them from time immemorial. That's what you're arguing about. Because what you are proposing is precisely what, that the Church, the church of the people of all life, instead of belonging to the Church that belongs to the Consistory? That's what you're proposing? That the courtyard that surrounds the church, for example, that instead of depending on or forming part of the property of the Church, forms part of the Consistory, of the City Hall? Is that what you're proposing? If that is what you are raising, that is another debate. And I insist again, it's another debate. It is another debate. Because what is being raised here is a publication of the goods that are part of or have been the property of the Catholic Church. That is why I do not want to insist very much on it, in case you listen to me, but, come on, I encourage you to present another, but concerning this, on the subject of that publication. Because, of course, as everyone wants, you don't believe in the private sector or the private initiative. For nothing, listen, (...) that the Catholic Church loses all its goods for the benefit of the State in this case, without any kind of (...), for I do not know why you want to pose historical justice. That is why we are not going to support the initiative, which, I insist, I am very surprised that it comes from a party that is part of the government that has managed this very issue directly and that I believe that it has reached a fairly reasonable agreement in this case with the Episcopal Conference. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u109	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, I went on guztioi. Well, as Mrs Gorrotxategi said more than three months ago, specifically on 18 November, she did say that the debate that we were going to have at the time and that we also have today is not new; in fact, it is a very old debate, is it not? And I also reminded him of initiatives in both the X and XI legislatures. And, in fact, after three and a half months almost four months, here we have another initiative on this. Another initiative, which, by the way, as we see, does not bring anything new; on the contrary, at first it lowered the level of demand on the Government and which, in the end, only serves for some to come here to this forum to say that there are some things they do not like. It seems very interesting to me. The truth is that there are many things I don't like too, but this forum is not exactly for that. Therefore, I think this is an initiative that is not going and, in fact, is not going anywhere. But this is the least, because, in the end, the important thing is that while we are wasting time in this kind of sterile debate, the Spanish Government, Mr Estarrona, is making steady and decisive steps towards a historic claim by the Socialist Party. Let me know, not from you, that in those times you were in other things, right?, claiming other things, and, above all, guaranteeing the property, rights, etc., of Basque citizenship. And that historic claim of the Socialist Party is nothing other than the return of the goods unduly registered by the Church. And it does so, as I say, first of all with the publication of that study that was prepared by the Government of Spain, fulfilling what was agreed in the Congressional Justice Commission at that session on April 4, 2017, in which a non-law proposal from the Socialist Group was approved - not from either of the two representatives you had then - and which was related to claiming ownership of the domain or other registered real rights in favour of the Church. And it does, secondly, because you see, with the constitution of this commission... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... of domination, other real rights registered in favor of the Church. And it does, secondly, because you look at the establishment of this specific Registration Commission with the Episcopal Conference. That in a first agreement, in a first agreement, Mr Estarrona, you will have read and heard the question that your representative put to Congress not long ago. In a first agreement they have achieved the return of more than 1,000 goods. I insist, at first, on a first agreement, it is recognized by the Church that these goods are either not hers, or that they belong to third parties, or that it does not cost her information about her ownership. And what does this mean? One thing that is very clear is that there is a Government, in this case the Government of Spain, that dialogues with everyone. A Government that is able to promote and reach agreements, and a Government that fulfils its commitments to the Congress of Deputies and to the mandates. Therefore, it gives Parliament and also with the word remains. Let's move on. However, all this information that has been extracted from this agreement has already been sent to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and it will be the Town Halls and property records that carry out the regularization. But the Commission will continue to work. It will continue to work to clarify a variety of cases that occur in situations to verify ownership of the relevant assets, to refine the lists to refine any documentary inaccuracies that are detected, and especially for the recovery of more assets. I don't see why you say no. You say no, because you want to say no, not because you know for sure. And that is something that the Government has already clarified and has made clear to meridian. On the other hand, by fulfilling the agreement that we reached on 18 November, not with its invaluable help, but by an amendment signed by the groups supporting the Government or the initiative, the list of goods registered in our Community has already been forwarded by the Basque Government. And this has been referred to Eudel and the three outlaws. So the duties are done, because in the end, that was what had to be done. On the other hand, that November debate also agreed on a very important thing that you refer to as a reference point, but as if time were running out or as if nothing was done, was it not? And that is that the Government was directly asked to make legislative reform or to study it. A new regulatory framework, because with the framework we have, that not only (...) the regulatory iter that has to do with the Mortgage Law, but that is the Civil Code... Anyway. There are a number of issues. For we cannot do many of the things that are asked for free, but which are impossible to do. Especially if you have not read exactly the report you are submitting. And in that report, in fact, it appears that there are approximately 5,000 farms, some refer to temples or complementary dependencies. Which of them were registered and enrolled in ecclesiastical certification or by other titles, or has a general statistics with all the data with a detailed breakdown, general list of the records. All the registered farms ordered in this case with those of our community are 88, and it appears if they are annexes or religious. And if there is a title other than ecclesiastical certification. 35,000 documented assets. I don't have any more data, and there's no more data that I know of. If there's more data, if there's 100,000, where are those data? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come These documents are provided and I am sure that they will be incorporated into the respective files or in the analysis and study of this issue. But the nuclear part of the work called for in the original initiatives was already done. And everything has to be said on the part of the Socialist Group's impetus with that initiative that was raised in the Congress of Deputies. Therefore, we did not see him without any need, I tell him already in advance, to create new inventories, to do work on the work, inventory on the inventory, listed on the list, work on the work. Anyway. And then there was one thing in both Bildu's initiatives and in Elkarrekin's Podemos amendment Podemos, which were, at last. What is this about urging the government, Mr Estarrona, to do a series of work? A series of papers, point five of your proposal What papers? How do you (...)? What is this? A series of jobs? And then, what is this in the sixth point of the initiative and also in the amendment that we can cancel the registrations and return them to their previous registration status? Hey, we're talking about a registration, which is the first time it's registered. We are going to be serious and we are going to speak rigorously about all these issues. Finally, I insist, there is an agreement by this Parliament urging the Government of Spain to study the legislative amendments necessary to return the goods unduly registered by the Catholic Church. And I have to tell you, Mrs Gorrotxategi, this is an issue that you know exactly the same as I, in the middle of the legislature, which is part of the government agreement that they support the government of Pedro Sánchez. Specifically, it appears in paragraph 11 of the fifth point on new democratic rights and memory. If you have read well the documentation that was submitted, that comprehensive work, you will know that that is the only way to solve this. You are licensed in law and you know the law. We have to talk about law with a certain degree of rigour. And this rostrum is to give, that one may speak freely. But we must speak with rigor, with rigor. And there are things, which independently – and I'm not going to get into the qualifications you've dedicated to Mr. Sánchez, I have no interest but if you come here to talk about something reasonable, you have to do it knowing what you're talking about. In any case, you seem very little or insufficient to go to... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...reasonably you have to do it knowing what you're talking about. In any case, you do not think very little - or insufficient - of going to that amendment that we are not going to approve, and you think very little - that 10,000 assets have been recovered. It seems to me very much less none, which are the ones you have recovered in these 25 years. And I don't know him so far any initiative in this regard, except these that have a lot to do with what I like and what I don't... I have something else to tell you, I'll tell you in the second round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good afternoon. Well, today we're again discussing the subject of immuneculations in this Chamber. We talked about this matter last November, and, well, we confirm the agreement that we have received a few months ago, with what Mrs. Galástegui said. We believe that this agreement is still a solution to a better solution. EH Bildu, as Mr. Estarrona reminded us and was reflected in his original proposal, because, at least in his first three points, the reaction of the platform was reflected, at the very bottom of the letter, by the news of the agreement reached between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Episcopal Conference, which takes for granted the report drawn up by the latter in reference to the goods registered between 1998 and 2015. And, further on, you repeat several points from the EH Union, which you mention, and we have already discussed in November, and, well, we have given our opinion. And our attitude hasn't changed, it hasn't changed. So at least I won't repeat that discussion. We think it's very important for the contents of the report made by Episcopic Conference. Another question is the political importance which each group wishes to give, but the report itself clears the list which the central Government has made in its own time. Regulariza incidencias, that's in the official note, the phrase, the phrase that appears. Regularizes incidences. Well, what does that report say? It seems he's the one who's unleashed... It seems no, that it is the one that has unleashed the original initiative of EH Bildu and then all the other amendments that have been made. For, that some goods belong to religious orders, that others are duplicated, that others do not belong to it, that others are not identifiable and that some or not belong to the Church anymore or should not be part of the list of goods registered for having been acquired by other means than registration. Okay. I'm not going to say anything else about the report. Simply, and although I do not think that the President of the Spanish Bishops' Conference is listening to me at this time, whether for the time being, Cardinal Omella, would invite you in the next reports to comply with Law 19/2011 of 5 July, since the report contains the names of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa prior to that law. The Church also has to comply with that law. Even if we disagree, we understand the proposal of the EH Collectors, by making your plans for the Recuperando platform as your original proposition. What we don't understand is the position of the Podemos-Euerda Unida. We don't understand, we don't understand. It's obvious that you don't like the agreement your government has made, that's clear. Loud and clear. Not the agreement and not the work of this committee, the completion... You don't share it. It's clear and clear. He said that we do not understand the position of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida group because, well, you can think that an agreement that can be reached by the other side of the government to which you are a party - the majority-doctor - do not like it; of course, you can do so. They may not recognize the value of the work done by a committee of which a minister of their Government is a member; they may do so, and in fact they do so naturally. By using a term that might come a little bit into the thread of the subject we are dealing with, you have no problem apostating your government, your agreements... No problem, no problem. But they do have a problem. You have one problem: that is that you are not reaching or not seeing all the agreements that you have been able to reach on this matter fulfilled, and you want this House and the rest of the groups, at least, to be part of the solution. And I'm so sorry, but don't count on us and us to fix your problems. You'll know what you have to do and where you have to do it. This isn't the first time this has happened, is it? They are already accustomed and accustomed to reneging live on the actions of the government to which they belong and then trying to get this House to speak in favour of their thesis and against those decisions made by their partner or with which they disagree. (For not extending the topic further?Mrs Gorrotxategi, the solution to this question is more than 300 kilometres from Gasteiz. And you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u112	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing on the day of the answers, EH Collector, Lord Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u113	Thank you, Mrs. President. [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u114	Thank you, Mrs. President. Again. And Mr. Atucha, we give a lot of importance to this agreement, I don't know what dimension it will be, but how political it is that we attach it to it. After all, and in Sánchez's government, and in the presence of his plans, it's really more than willful for us, it's a little embarrassing for us. And as Plato says and Plato says, 'tis impossible for us to admit of any such thing. Just. Mr. Gordillo, you say that it is not your job to defend the current Government of the Kingdom of Spain. And you here have been talking to us a little bit about what is the conception of private property from the liberal point of view you sit on. But then it has not become very clear to me, it has not become very clear to me when you welcome us to liberalism for the proposal we make, even if it is late, you welcome us. And yet, he's telling us that registration, somehow, does not mean getting ownership of that good either. He tells us that welcome because we are fierce – I believe he has said now – defenders of private property, but then he explains that registrations, in some way, do not imply ownership of such property. And I believe that on this occasion, surely, his admired Milton Friedman would have suspended his subject. Just, Mrs. Gallastegui, I'm not going in much. I've been disappointed by some slip that you've made out there, but I'm not going to get into it. I think you here today had a difficult position, you had a difficult position. You say this is a sterile debate, okay. In your opinion, a proposal that does not bring anything; I have to say that your amendment does bring much more, does it not? And then it is you who acquire commitments and who fulfill the word given. And, simply, if you want in any seeker to look for what was the first day of the investiture session of January 4, 2020, which would later be the current president of the Kingdom of Spain, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, if you want to go to the journal of sessions and you will see there what you committed to, and you will see there what you are not doing. It tells us, somehow, that we're requesting an inventory. An inventory, a listing, and even ridicules the proposal. I'm going to tell you, what we have right now, what we have right now is, in large measure, the information given by the records, simply. And we and we, at least, like to work things properly to know what state these goods are in, what year they were registered, whether there have been public investments in them after the last few years, etc., etc. Therefore, yes, we consider and advocate that an inventory has to be made to really know what we are talking about and which of those assets have been improperly registered, and return them to their previous situation. And finally, you tell me about rigour and getting down here, and thank you for giving me permission to express whatever you want. But then you tell me about Pedro Sánchez' agreement with the Episcopal Conference and about the 10,000 goods that have been regularized. Mrs. Gallastegui, it's 965, it's 965; it's not 1,000 either, it's 965. Let's be rigorous. I do not know whether you will go to Mass on Sundays and kneel, but, well, I have to say that from our point of view and from political parameters we do consider that, on this occasion, the Government of Sánchez has kneeled before the Church with this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u115	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together Podemos-Nozzerate, from that very point of view, is a woman of hatred.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u116	Mr Gordillo raised the group debate. The debate, of course, is not - although it might be exciting too - but it is not about discussing expropriating the Catholic Church or any of that, the debate is something else. The debate is to recognize - on the other hand, I believe that it has been widely recognized, even in this House on other occasions - that the Catholic Church has enjoyed privileges in registering property. And that privilege has made property that did not belong to him to be recorded as his own. And in the face of this fact, the debate is also about protecting legitimate owners who are in some cases private. By the way, the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights is addressed to a particular individual, in particular a company that bought land on which a chapel or something was located. Sometimes legitimate owners are particular to whom defence and protection must be offered. And on other occasions, and on many occasions above all, the owner is the community, it is the people; because they are goods that have been built with the money and with the effort of the people, and that in no case have they been owned by the Catholic Church. That is the context, that is the debate. And as for the relevance of bringing this issue here, well, I believe that no one escapes from determining what the goods are improperly... i.e. that the determination of the improperly registered property corresponds to which subject it has carried out is rare. And that... they're a tomato of hair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. Mr. Gordillo mustn't speak. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u118	Thank you, President. Good morning, I got on, for all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Let me see, Mr Estarrona, I have no intention of underestimating your initiative and I do not think I have said it; I just think you are not going anywhere, because it is simply a desideratum. Or more than a desideratum, it is to put white on black or black on white, as you wish, what your assessment is about an agreement. And what is it that you... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... white on black or black on white, whatever you want, what your rating is about an agreement and what you like and what you don't like. And that's fine with me. But that doesn't mean I respect... And I give you permission to say... You have all the permission to say what you want and I have the permission to answer what you think is appropriate. I'll start at the end. It is that you spoke that there is only one document, which is a report, in which only the goods contained in the Register appear. It's just that other people can't show up because we're talking about registered property. What part have we not understood? Because... Or, if not, I got lost in the translation. The intranslations... I don't know which part we don't understand. If we're talking about improperly registered assets, it's because they're exclusively in the Register. I wanted to comment on one thing about the unconstitutionality you mentioned in relation to the rule. You have had to read the report, because we have had it for a long time now. And with regard to unconstitutionality, unfortunately or fortunately, since chapter four of that report came to say that, despite the serious doubts raised by that rule as to constitutionality, it did not cease to be applied by any court or any question of unconstitutionality that resolved the doubts, and that meant that it was fully explicable until the repeal. This on the one hand. But in the case, moreover, in which there had been a question of unconstitutionality, which is something that Dr. Gorrotxategi will know, because I think I have not given the measure of..., uh, it is that I would never have had retroactive effects as provided for in articles 38.1 and 40.1 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. Another thing. You ask the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to do things, to act. They can't act. They can't act in any way. Because the only way that the Basque Government or the Government of Spain has in the judicial and administrative defense at least not, because they have to go to the Registry with a better title, right?, we agree all in that, is that those goods were property on which they could prove some title. I believe that the bill we passed was a correct bill and that it was... it sent things to the government and it sent things that have all been fulfilled. The report came to you on January 31st... the office sent by the Basque Government in connection with the compliance by the Government of Spain, by the Ministry of Relations with the Courts, with all the data required. And you were talking as if, I don't know, subjecting yourself to the current regulatory parameters is a matter that basically depends on desire, now I want, now I don't. Hey, no. We have nothing but that frame, which, by the way, comes out of this House here, uh, it doesn't come out of the earth like cradles. Hey, no. And then you were also talking about political will. Man, please, the political will was perfectly recorded in the fucking two of the agreement we approved, which was to urge the Government to... in addition to the Government of Spain, to do what it has already said it will do. And, as far as I know, from January 4, 2020 until today, it's passed mid-legislature, eh. I don't know what you did on the one and only occasion you had the opportunity to rule. By the way, from 2011 to 2015, which was the date of the greatest peak of registrations, we know no initiative in this regard. Faithful data. Bring the reliable data. Where are the data, the documents they credit? I recognize him about 10,000 because, in fact, there are 1,000, more than 1,000, because there are added data. But 1,000, not 10,000. I don't know if I said it, 10,000 was a mistake, okay? And I remind you that, as I have said before, to date I have not heard you... I have not... I have known any initiative or activity to claim the defense of property improperly registered by the Church or... So, that... In addition, this was recalled to you by Minister Bolaños, casually, on the day you, uh, the day before you left aside the improvement of all the rights of the workers of this country because you rejected the Labour Reform. I don't know which part... Which part of defending rights, right?, we're talking about. But this debate will be followed at another time because, if not, the president is going to give me (...?)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u119	Thank you for the hating... Hey, Mrs. Gallarástegui. [[Barres]] Eternate patriot shouldn't speak a word. So, we're going to the vote. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote for EH Collect and together with Podemos-Nozzer distribution that has been signed by the Animal Team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 26; the opponents, 48; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-10.u120	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. The gathering ended at three thirty-three o'clock in the afternoon.
