ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. First point in theme list: "Dispositions of historical memory and democratic laws to the project. The discussion and the vote. I'm glad to hear it. Mr. President has the word to introduce him to the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u1	The lawmaster, the guests, the congressmen, the chief officers, the chief physician, the chief physician, the ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to explain to you the project of the historical and democratic Eucharistic memory, which is in the phase of generacy in this legislature. We have a challenge of illusions in this parliament to accept the first law of historical and democratic history. We're facing a historic opportunity. As the first article of this project prescribes, it is intended to regulate public policies connected with the historical and democratic memory of Euchara. He's got a double target. The first is to promote the memory and satisfaction of the victims of the Civil War and the Fricist dictatorship, and the second to promote principles and democratic values. Truth, justice, recompense, and guarantee that no more. These are the basic principles of the law project. First of all, I'll make a clear and clear confession. To recover the historical memory and confess the victims of Civil War and Frenchism won't begin today with this project. Sometimes we may fall into an adanist temptation, and we may suppose that everything has begun with each of us. It's almost never like that. It's not like that in the history of memory, of course. Since the end of the '70s and the beginning of the '80s, many and significant initiatives associated with historical memory have been Eukadin. The soldiers and militiamen had accompanied them in the full time of the franchise and recalled the victims of war and dictatorship. Later, the fear of totalitarianism or the sound of the sabre-bell on the 23rd of February did not prevent the first public confessions. The veteran soldiers and veteran soldiers, and the relatives of the riflemen and of the missing, took their bodies from the grave, and began to revive the historical memory of moving them. Then came the initiatives of new generations. In these teams two forces have been united. Family and memory are the firm and tireless will of institutions, and the institutions of Basques are really and preponderantly the right and duty of memory. Again, we wish to communicate our most sincere confession to the relatives of the victims and the institutions of memory. Auzolan is a symbol of a fruitful social institutional partnership that is part of the DNA of this country. This collaborative work has also been fruitful in historical and democratic memory. The draft law provides for the establishment of the Directory of Entities and an Advisory Commission on Historical Memory as a consultative body and for the participation of memorialist entities. We do not start from scratch, the first institutional arrangements for recognition date back to the early 1980s. Provisions that were subsequently complemented with new milestones. Very significant was the adoption in December 2002 by the Governing Council chaired by the Lehendakari Ardanza of the Constitution of an interdepartmental commission to investigate and locate the graves of persons missing during the Civil War. At the same time, the agreement between the Basque Government and the Aranzadi Society for the exhumation of mass graves and the investigation of Francoist repression was launched. This trajectory culminates with the adoption of Law 4/2014 of 27 November. Thus, the creation of Gogora, the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights, is the highest exponent of the institutionalization of public memory policies. The compendium of achievements over the past eight years is eloquent: research; reports and publications; seminars and exhibitions; databases and testimonies; maps of Euskadi graves; database of victims of the Civil War with more than 20,000 personalized records; Elgoibar columbarium and the imminent Orduña columbarium; accompanying families who have seen their right to exhumation of their relatives in the Valley of the Fallen. This trajectory, has placed Euskadi as a reference in historical and democratic memory... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... right to the exhumation of their family members in the Valley of the Fallen. This trajectory has placed Euskadi as a reference in historical and democratic memory. The bill strengthens and provides a regulatory framework for this trajectory. A normative framework for a humanist and humanizing purpose: restoring the memory and dignity of the victims of civil war and dictatorship. Therefore, our first memory is today for those who for over 40 years have been victims of serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. In establishing this category, we have relied on United Nations resolutions and international humanitarian law. Article 3.1 of the draft provides – I read literally – that "For the purposes of this law, any person who has suffered personal or collective physical, moral or psychological harm, property damage, or substantial impairment of his or her fundamental rights, as a result of actions or omissions that constitute a violation of human rights, shall be deemed to be intended for the purposes of this law". A broad, inclusive definition of human rights violations as a fundamental reference. Paragraph 2 lists some of the groups covered by this definition that deserve specific consideration. On the one hand, mortal victims, all victims of bombing, extrajudicial or summary executions, persons killed in prison and persons killed as a result of the defence of democratic legality in the face of the military coup and dictatorship. On the other hand, those who suffered repression as a result of a military coup against a legally constituted regime, and of a black dictatorship for almost 40 years made the violation of rights and freedoms, and of repression their sign of identity. Our goal is to pass a law to restore dignity to those who have not been restored. A law to recognize violations of rights, a law to redress injustice. Truth, justice, confession. Truth, in the first place, requires knowledge. And knowledge is an inquiry. We must know the truth of events. We've already taken very important steps on this road. To find the missing people, to get them out of the pit, to identify them, and to deserve them. A remarkable step to make a database on the victims of the Civil War. The law will strengthen our duty and compromise our bodies by creating the DNA bank of Eukadicus. The law will strengthen our commitment to the new Uduña, or the stages following the report of human rights during the Eucata during the 1936 and 78. The foresight established in the fifth part of the last regulation of the law of the state, which sets up a year's time to change the Official Secrets law, will make a visible progress in the inquiry, understanding, and explaining the truth. Truth, digestion, education, and memory also require pedagogy. This pedagogy must be a triple purpose: the social construction of memory, which never happens again, and the active commitment to protect and ensure human rights. We are advancing in this triple objective through the network of spaces that are configured as a national museum of the historical and democratic memory of Euskadi. This network consists of an exhibition space of Gogora, the Museum of Peace of Gernika, with special attention to civil war and bombing in its projection and universal significance, and a memorial space of 3 March in Gasteiz, truth and justice. Our commitment is clear within the framework of our competences: to contribute, to the extent possible, to the judicial truth of the facts, actively collaborating with all judicial bodies. The project sets out our commitment. Gogora will work with the Administration of Justice to promote the right to justice of victims of the civil war and the Franco dictatorship. Truth, justice and recognition or reparation. Moral, social, symbolic and effective recognition. Work in this area is also not beginning today. The explanatory statement of the project lists a set of provisions adopted since the early 1980s with a clear remedial will. The draft, in its article 12, and in its additional first provision, reaffirms that will. With regard to economic reparation measures, it literally states that, on Gogora's proposal and by agreement of the Governing Council, a technical commission shall be appointed which, within one year of the entry into force of this law, shall submit a study describing the set of economic reparation measures aimed at victims. This study should be referred to the Gogora Board of Directors to assess the relevance and feasibility of additional compensation and, where appropriate, proceed with its proposal and implementation. At the symbolic level of recognition and restitution, the project proposes an annual day of remembrance and tribute to the victims of the civil war and the Franco dictatorship. Section 3.2a of the Act also provides for the right of protected persons to obtain a personal recognition document of an institutional nature issued by the Basque Government for the rehabilitation of their honour and their just moral satisfaction. The law will determine the preparation of the catalogue of places, itineraries and spaces of the historical memory of Euskadi. Finally, the draft also establishes a sanctioning regime. I stress the virtually unanimous commitment of Basque society to its historical and democratic memory. From a democratic perspective, we defend and defend freedom of expression. That's right, with one clear exception: contempt and humiliation of the victims and their... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... We defend and defend freedom of expression. That is so, with one clear exception: contempt and humiliation of the victims and their dignity. The law of the historical and democratic history of Euscata surveys the past, but above all it preserves the future of Euscadi, the future memory and truth. Memory, truth, and the confession of the victims are the democratic patrimony of all, and they must be the instrument of never breaking and fighting. My last words will require agreement and agreement, agreement and agreement in the process of making the whole Chamber, which we now wish to present to the whole Chamber. I would fain reflect on this agreement and agreement in the nature of the legislature; We owe it to the suffering and dignity of these people and those generations. We owe it to future generations, so that the future may have memory of life. I am confident that these members of the legislature will enrich and improve this law by seeking your contributions, and the agreement between the several parties. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Full correction. Mist, first. Does someone else have to participate in the next round? Not even in the opposite. Mrs Martínnez, so the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors. Good morning. Everyone here knows that the bill of historical and democratic memory will end up seeing the light basically as this norm has been conceived, without any modification. An exercise of irresponsibility that will be paid for by future generations, who will sustain their historical knowledge in a revanchist law, in a distorted and barren law of what has been lived in this region since the end of the Civil War. It is a law that pursues the consolidation of opposing sides, that treats the citizenry as an amalgam of people with no capacity for analysis or decision, brigands to which we must show the truth of the truths, the irrefutable truth; a flock to which we must say that we must remember and that we must erase from their memory. It's a law to manipulate consciences and memories. And that's where Vox is never gonna be. Because the claims of those who promote such a law and those of those who support it with their favorable vote are absolutely unacceptable. His commitment is nothing other than to confront the Spaniards, directing the accuser finger to one another and victimizing others, making it virtually impossible for normalized coexistence between people we should learn from, but from what really happened and not just from what the Government and the left intend to remember. The alleged construction of a certain memory, the oblivion of ETA's terrorist activity until 1979, the changes in dates of the first project to which it is finally being processed, the systematic erasure of historical remains and the legal smoke curtain with which the barbarities committed by the republican and related side are intended to hide are compelling reasons to return this bill to its promoters. Returning it and then forgetting it, to continue moving towards a normalized coexistence, for which the foundations were laid in that transition that some in this House call regime. History is the set of events or events of a very diverse nature of a people or nation, political, cultural, economic, and social events and events. It is also history and the set of events that occurred to someone during their life or during a part of it. And, in any case, it is to historians who are responsible for the reconstruction of history through the study and analysis of such events and events through documents, stories and vestiges. In no case is it a task reserved for politicians with very defined ideologies and particular interests, perfectly defined in addition, as is the case for the promoters of this bill. On the other hand, we have the concept of memory, which is what a person or group of people remembers from a certain period of history. I remember conditioned by sensitivities, feelings, the impact of a particular moment, also by the maneuvers and manipulations that in history make politicians interested and irresponsible. In other words, history is an objective concept, the result of rigorous analysis of events, documents and vestiges. While memory is a fundamentally subjective concept, always linked to personal circumstances and not necessarily linked to the historical narrative. However, the Government has decided to link both concepts to determine what is to be remembered in our history. Moreover, without scruples and without blush, they confess that their goal is the construction of a memory, of an irrefutable truth, theirs, partial and interested, absolutely subjective. A memory that aims to regulate by law, making illegal any memory that does not correspond to yours even if it is linked to objective and demonstrable historical events. It is, in short, to raise to the rank of law a truth against which there would be no dissent, the truth of those who today stand as victims of a regime that many of them have not even lived or suffered, who have not suffered. A truth that is not, among other things, because it is based on twisted history, manipulated and plagued with loopholes due to the blatant and remote-directed oblivions on which they are based. In addition, there are very significant oblivions. I will leave for the end the most clumsy, most clamorous oblivion, the one that defines by itself the object of this draft law of memory, because it is precisely the deletion of history that he more thoroughly claims. For the construction of that memory has been, is and will be a tool of incalculable value the erasure of any vestige of the past that is intended to manipulate. And we can focus on a close example, the cross of Portu's Darsena in Barakaldo, torn down by the nostalgic youths of ETA by supposedly being a Francoist symbol. It was a destruction already planned by the Baracald city hall. A cross intended to be replaced by information panels, which I have no doubt about, would develop the theory of the cross as a vestige of a past that needs to be erased. And it serves as an example of what Deia published, a newspaper that stands out for obscene nationalist bias, on December 12, 2020. He said: "It is necessary that history be told well, that it be fair..."... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... Deia, a newspaper that stands out for its obscene nationalist bias, on December 12, 2020. He said: "It is necessary that history is well told, that it is fair and, in this regard, Barakaldo wants to take firm steps. Thus, the table of the organ of the Historical Memory of the factory town has proposed that the cross of Cape Quilates, located in the Portu Darsena, be replaced by panels that explain what happened there at the beginning of the Civil War." And what happened there was that Corporal Quilates was the object of both attacks: one, perpetrated by the national forces; the other, by the republican side, despite what prevails the memory that the cross torn down by the ultras of Ernai is a Francoist symbol. And I wonder, why did it bother me to keep a cross on my feet? Did he count what they didn't want him to remember? Of course I do. Moreover, and so did historians from different places and with not necessarily coincident ideologies. In this future law of demoralization, there are no references to the atrocities committed by the republican forces, which are also intended to elevate to a sort of heroic troops, victims of human rights violations, which, according to what this constructed memory reflects, only seems to have occurred in one direction. Moreover, the text of the draft defends the elimination of all vestiges, of any symbolology that could be contrary to Republican legality. Reference, therefore, to the Second Republic, once again elevated to the rank of truth and unquestionable legality, in addition to being a historical moment prior to the temporal rank to which the norm that this government intends to carry out is adhered. By the way, period of time not exempt from many turbulences, traditions and coups of states. But all this does not appear in the law. Why? And in this campaign, announced of the elimination of any symbol or vestige contrary to this purported republican legality, one might wonder: are Francoist symbols only the shields, or are also the buildings in which they were located and which were raised in full dictatorship? Are you going to throw away the buildings, too? Are they swamps, also built in the Franco era? Are we going to cancel the swamps, too? Is that the reasonable thing that was also done in those years? Could we catalogue from collaborators all those who held public office between the years 39 to 78, or the high offices of public enterprises or vertical unions? Do we delete any reference to them in plates, in books? Everything leads us to conclude that this is not going to be a law to ensure that all victims get the truth they have claimed for so many years; all those victims who have sought their particular truth. All the people between 39 and 79 have suffered violations of their rights in this region, victims, by the way, of all ideologies. And this puts us before the main omission, no doubt, interested. One more proof of the whitening process encouraged by nationalists and socialists to take ETA out of our recent history, despite the fact that its criminal activity has conditioned the lives of thousands of people, and in the reporting period it had already killed dozens of people. It's an irrefutable historical fact. ETA broke into our lives in the period to which this law refers. And ETA killed dozens of people before Franco died, before the Spanish Constitution was passed, and even before the Basques approved the Statute of Gernika. It is certainly something that conditioned the lives of many people, even after 1979. A scourge for democratic coexistence in this region and in Spain as a whole, which absolutely obscenely deserves not a single mention in the whole text that we defend and that we want it to be returned to the Government. You speak of the right to justice. Allude yourselves to people who were forced to flee the Basque Country, victims of political persecution, and obviate any reference to the many atrocities committed by ETA before the establishment of the democratic regime in Spain. They forget the many people who left this region to avoid being murdered, tortured, kidnapped and extortioned. Only this forgetfulness, absolutely premeditated and unprecedented irresponsibility, invalidates the bill that is committed to calling it "historical and democratic memory". Or is it that what they really pretend is to erase their main stain from the history of the Basque Country? Will it be the price to pay in order to obtain the support of its potential allies, which is related to ETA in this House? ETA is the black history of the Basque Country. ETA has caused enormous suffering throughout Spain. Does anyone think that a law that seeks to bring truth, that seeks to do justice to the victims of fundamental rights violations for political reasons, does not devote a single prominent chapter to the criminal gang and its accomplices? In Vox we claim the leading role in history, whether we like it or not. We advocate letting historians: analyze and study facts, events, symbols, documents and vestiges, also accounts, for the reconstruction of what really happened, to prevent unscrupulous politicians from hiding realities to promote and impose their particular truth which, in part, could be considered a great lie. For historians, history. And for people, memory. Stop considering citizenship as a herd of sheep, which we need to be directed at what we need to remember and what we need to forget. We call for the return of this bill to the Basque Government because it lacks historical rigour. Because he intends to build a collective memory, appropriate to his own interests. Because it advocates the elimination of all symbols and annoying vestiges for prevailing progressiveism, and thus have free way to twist and manipulate real history, generating a false reality. If his particular vision of history were to be internationalized, for example, the Auschwitz concentration camp would today be a solar, but still standing, as a real display of Nazi horror. A testimony to the holocaust. An element of incalculable value for pedagogy in the education of non-violence, for the recognition of victims, to work towards the consolidation of a better society. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be much more responsible to maintain and make a pedagogical use of vestiges than to demolish all those who may be annoying, something that contributes to the forgetfulness of what has happened and to events that should be part of our memory, which are part of our history that we must remember. Or would it be better to demolish Auschwitz and replace the field of...?... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...events that should be part of our memory, which are part of our history that we must remember. Or would it be better to demolish Auschwitz and replace the concentration camp with information panels? As I say, ladies and gentlemen, history for historians. But the whole story, not just the one that sounds good to us. And politics for politicians, in this House and in other progressive courts - also in the Congress of Deputies - now erected as historians of Republican legality. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, an avalanche of historical memory laws is coming, all further cut by the same pattern, all contaminated with revanchism, all bent on retreating to a distant past to divide the Spaniards between good and bad, to point out these and to victimize those. This is one more reason to return this bill to its promoters. Let's see what happens at the Congress of Deputies, where you don't have them all with you. Moreover, they know that the change of cycle is coming and that their pretensions are not going to reach a good port. They know that with false progressism in the opposition there will be an end to revanchism, a dive in the past to generate conflict and division in the present. Do we want to be true? We turn to those who are able to find it in spider fabrics that weave the ideologies. And once we find each one of us who interprets, let us avoid it being modeled with changes of government, let us commit ourselves to it. Perhaps this would prevent textbooks from being used by autonomous communities - such as the Basque - so that the new generations - the most helpless, of course - would communicate with nationalist and secessionist postulates based on historical revisionism and the manipulation of the truth. You work every day for the imposition of your story, for the dissemination of a story of good and bad, without greys and without nuances. A story that will also generate division and problems of coexistence even in places where they have not existed for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Next, we'll discuss the full correction of the Basque Groups of Populars-Ciudads. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u5	President, Lehendakari, Counsellor, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. As a reminder, two moments. Yesterday, 15 June, 45 years of the first general democratic elections were held in 1977, which gave way, among other things, to the Amnesty Act of 77; or, doubtless, to the Constitution adopted the following year in this country, the Constitution of 78. And on the eve, we have to remember that moment, because on the eve of those elections, in the election campaign, ETA committed 56 attacks, most of them in the Basque Country, from July 2 to July 15. In addition to acting, in the temporary framework in which this law also moves. And that's why we brought that memory of that moment that could at this moment seem like an anecdote, but that was so. Another time, this farthest, 85 years ago. Today, precisely today, June 16, 1937, the Mercedes de las Arenas Church in Getxo was set on fire by anarchist militiamen in an expression of hatred very present in the Civil War in many parts of the Basque Country and in other parts of Spain. Okay, two moments. The Lehendakari has introduced a bill that, we can say, we share in much of its text, but which is forgotten, very clear realities remain absent and which my group - the People's Citizen Group - has tried to identify and amended. We believe that this law is incomplete and that is why we have tabled our entire amendment. Our group has tabled this amendment, which we tabled today and 51 partial amendments to the draft law on historical and democratic memory in Euskadi. We do not want to show our opposition to continue working for the memory of this country. And we all do not want to block, of course, the need for recognition of victims, violations of human rights, condemnation of dictatorships, or the denunciation of war crimes such as those committed in the Spanish Civil War. But we do want all the processes that, in the time of this project, 1936-1978, have been considered totalitarian, anti-democratic and criminal, to be addressed if we are to speak or legislate. All projects, without exception. And this bill forgets much of our history, and for that reason and for that reason, it is not a complete historical memory for us. And for that and for that, let alone a complete democratic memory. It is not necessary to recall our strongest condemnation of the coup d'état, the establishment of a dictatorship, the crimes committed in the war... in civil strife on both sides and political manoeuvres that wanted to subjugate and mistreat the freedom of citizens. And that is why we must remember all the people, all the people who have suffered in this time for these causes. We are presenting this amendment in its entirety, and also a series of amendments which, if that amendment, the amendment in its entirety, does not succeed, will be defended by our group in order to complete a law, a law, which, if it does not have it and if it does not include those criteria, those proposals which we have tabled will, in our view, be an incomplete law. We also think that the country... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... which we have presented, it will be a law, from our point of view, half an incomplete law. We also think that the Basque Country is not an island disconnected from the historical and democratic reality that surrounds us, and that today a bill is still being debated in the Congress of Deputies a bill that I do not know how it will end, but that it seems to influence concepts, regulations, in matters that coincide with this bill as well. That is why we considered it appropriate, or we saw it, to have waited until that law had been passed so that we could see how to work on a bill, on a Basque law in relation to that issue. But in any case, it is clear that that is not the case today. The two laws are being dealt with at the same time, and we need to have a position on the current draft law on the historical and democratic memory of Euskadi. And for our group, of course, this bill is unsatisfactory. I say again, by sharing some of your questions, it is unsatisfactory, there is a lack of important things, and that is why we are presenting our whole amendment. Two major elements have underpinned our entire amendment: a reference to historical memory and another reference to democratic memory. Two absences: an absence of historical and historical memory and an absence of democratic memory in this legal text. The bill forgets a number of realities that in the historical period established by the law in its article 1 as reference -1936, 1978 - caused serious damage to coexistence and violated the human rights of Basque citizens, even trying, in the case of ETA, to impose another totalitarian project on society. ETA tried to impose, within the framework of the action of this bill, another totalitarian project on society: a totalitarian project that we all know, a totalitarian project defined in its strategies, in its assemblies, in its communiqués, in its propaganda action. We know that ETA wanted to impose a totalitarian project on society. And that is not dealt with by this bill. And that totalitarian project carried out through the threat, through murder, kidnapping, extortion. There was a totalitarian project. Other terrorist organizations that were human rights violators also operated in the Basque Country and the rest of Spain during the reporting period. This fact of great historical relevance results in a specificity suffered in our Autonomous Community which a law of historical memory cannot or must not obviate. Without any doubt, the human rights violations carried out by ETA during the historical period marked by this law are also part of the historical memory of Euskadi. It must be part of that historical and democratic memory that totalitarian draft of ETA, if it is not incomplete this law, this bill. The explanatory statement of the bill in its paragraph 20 states: "Euskadi's historical and democratic memory law does not look to the past to be irresistibly trapped by the suffering and unjust pain of the Civil War and subsequent repression caused in the Basque Country". The object of the law retrospectively breaks the historical memory, but its main objective is prospectively democracy. It seeks to provide coherence, depth and institutional impetus to public policies that can contribute to truth, justice and reparation, including non-repetition measures in respect of serious human rights violations that occurred from the year 36 to the year 78. Where is the totalitarian ETA project in this bill? It's gone. Why? Please answer me in reply or in turn against this whole amendment. Answer me why a totalitarian project has disappeared from our historical memory. It doesn't make sense. And the statement I have read results in perfect application to the totalitarian project, which violated human rights, which it generated in the early 1960s and led the terrorist organization ETA, which acted not only until the year 78, but after the establishment of democracy in Spain, causing pain and death for decades. A historical and democratic memory must contemplate, in order to be complete and true, all that has been an obstacle to the construction of coexistence and democracy. And this consideration is not reflected in the bill. It does not appear in the bill, and we disagree with that absence and make it express. If one of the main objectives of this law, as stated in its article 1, entitled object and purpose, is the promotion of democratic values and principles, it is undeniable that precisely the democratic and ethical values embodied by the victims of terrorism fulfil the function of building a collective memory in order to raise public awareness of the importance of defending freedom and human rights in relation - I repeat - to totalitarian projects and dictatorial projects. We are then faced with a legal imbalance, or we will be when this law is passed if it does not make that vision, if it does not have that vision of completing what was that historical and democratic memory with the rest of the totalitarian projects that were trying to influence. We want there to be balance and everything to be fixed now, to be fixed now that we are debating a law, and not in 20 years' time, dealing in this Parliament with a reform of the historical memory law where ETA will be introduced as a factor of human rights violations. Because he'll get in, if it's not now, he'll get in this... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... reform of the historical memory law where ETA will be introduced as a human rights violation factor. Because he'll get involved, if not now, he'll get involved in this story, in the history of this country. ETA will be introduced as a major human rights violation factory. Well, let's put it in now that we have the chance. What's going on? That we have to play the game to someone? That we have to allow someone to make their new strategic or political bet at some point? Let's do it now, let's do it now, let's put ETA in the historical and democratic memory as a distorting and violating factor of human rights. Otherwise, this law, this bill, is incomplete. I say again, we will work on the paper that is created with our amendments. But it will be incomplete if there is no reference to these characteristics. The lehendakari has spoken of waiting for the groups to work and waiting for the groups to contribute; we have contributed, we will contribute. And let us also hope that the groups supporting the bill will also have some reflection on the subject that my group is transferring to them. And we have to remember in this area what was the historical memory and the implementation of the totalitarian project of ETA in the period, in addition, of the temporal framework in which this law is complied with, as the day before the temporal framework of this law ends; that is, on December 5, 78. ETA murdered on 5 December, before the day of the referendum, killed three people to overshadow precisely democracy, to overshadow precisely the day of the referendum of the Constitution. ETA murdered three people in San Sebastián the day before it was established as a limit of legal action for this bill. And he did it at the Urgull bar in San Sebastian. He killed Juan Cruz Alonso. He murdered José María Sarrais. He killed Angel Cruz Salcines. Don't you have to include it? Don't you have to include this? The day before the adoption of the Constitution, the referendum on the ETA Constitution tried to influence anti-democraticly. The democratic memory bill should establish and assume that this is an action. Should it not be included as a memory of what has happened, as a democratic historical memory of what has happened? Trying how they were trying ETA to act against the Constitution, against our freedoms? For we understand that it had to be included, and that is why we have tabled it as a whole amendment and as partial amendments which I hope will lead to reflection on your ladies and gentlemen. Also, another important absence for the project is that no reference is made, no express reference is made in the explanatory statement or in the articles of the law to the victims of the actions during the Civil War of persons, army groups and militias who carried out serious war crimes through killings, extrajudicial or summary executions, torture in prisons, illegal detentions under the orders of the republican or autonomous authorities. One cannot forget a law of Basque memory, of Basque historical memory, people who were illegally arrested and taken to the prisons of Bilbao: Larrinaga Prison, Angeles Custodians, Carmelo, Casa Galera. We must remember that on January 4, 1937, historical memory, the greatest massacre of innocent people in its history took place in Bilbao. The greatest killing of innocent people in its history occurred in Bilbao in 1937. 239 people of all kinds and conditions, rich and poor, old and young, priests and lay people, illiterate, enlightened, villagers, citizens, all mostly ordinary people, ordinary people; drawn from their homes, from their peoples by their political ideas or by their religious ideas, by being liberal, by being monarchical or by thinking that it was. Taken out of their homes and their families, taken to those prisons. Almost no police or judicial diligence had been initiated on most of them. But they were regarded as affections and uprisings or enemies of the regime. Like on the other side, the same way. Those must also be expressly remembered. Those have to be remembered. Of course, those and those arrested were shot in those prisons in Bilbao and in other locations that were also. As well as on the boats Altuna Mendi prison or Cabo Quilates. Many of them innocent victims of the criminal mass shootings of 1937 to those four prisons, to those ships, to other prisons in the Basque Country took these innocent people, and many of them were shot by hordes. Shot by murderers, by criminals dressed as militiamen, dressed in army suits, but criminals who committed those war crimes in the middle of the Civil War. Bilbaon families, Vizcain families, Basque families. There are also among those dead Alavese or Gipuzcoans, and other parts of Spain. Families are all affected by the injustice of being pointed out and becoming victims of war crimes. I mean, it overwhelms, I don't know if you've done it, it's overwhelming the stories that illustrate the murders of prisons or prison ships. The stories that illustrate the profile of the killers are overwhelming, for anyone who wants to read them too. And it's overwhelming too... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... The stories that illustrate the profile of the killers, for anyone who wants to read them too. And it is also overwhelming the inability of the authorities at that time, the republican authorities and the autonomous authorities at that time to curb that collection of crimes that occurred in the Spanish Civil War. Many others, elsewhere in Euskadi - we remember the crime of the 17 Elosu in 1936, of 22 Durango prison in 1936, the shootings of the Ondarreta prison, the 14 of Toulouse. Well, they also suffered repression, the brutality of Republican representatives in the army or in government areas, who ordered illegal arrests, and who failed to fulfil their obligations. In addition, leaving Governments and public officials in charge of preventing such criminal activities must be considered. Inaction, lack of diligence, incompetence, looking elsewhere, or complicity in some cases, should be considered in what are war crimes. And that's got to be black on white. The statement of reasons in the approach of identifying the object of this draft law, of this law. I mean, there's, there's... It should be considered, because it should also be noted that the Basque Government managed and guarded the Basque prisons where the killings were committed. It was the Basque Government that managed and guarded these prisons. Doesn't that have to come in a Basque Historical Memory Act? Don't you have to say it too? Much remains to be done in this area. Should we not ask for forgiveness, should we not pay tribute to all those innocent victims who were guarded by the Basque Government at the time? Well, we understand you do. I don't know how to move it to this bill, but we'll try, we'll try. Those victims of what we might call republican repression, they don't exist for the bill. As in spite of what is proclaimed in article 1, neither do the victims of persecution or violence, on the grounds of belief, religious status, exist for the draft law. To this category of victim, the law does not consider them, it does not include them among the more than ten types of persons and groups that deserve what the law calls a specific consideration. This is certainly another absence, which in our view also marks a little sectarianism. And it does not contribute to the strengthening of culture and democratic coexistence in the face of the discourses of denial, exclusion and tolerance. Well... The innocent victims caused by the Republican side must also be expressly recognized. And we have seen recently, moreover, unfortunately, attacks against his memory, attacking crosses that reminded them on the margins of the Ria del Nervion itself. Democracy cannot be guided by the logic of dictatorship, even applying it in the opposite direction, creating again, which is what can happen and the risk that can happen, victims of first and second in relation to what happened in the Civil War. That is, Basques worthy of recognition, and other deserving of oblivion, according to the color of the uniform of their executioners. That can't happen. We cannot allow that in a draft law of these characteristics. All victims of human rights violations must be recognized on an equal footing in a rule of law as ours based on coexistence, freedom and plurality. We have been and will be in all tributes to the victims of the Civil War, in all tributes to the victims of Francoism, of war, and we also want the crimes committed by the Republican side to be remembered, commemorated, and their victims also to be morally compensated for what happened, and also to be remembered the victims of the Republican side in those horrible crimes of the ships' prisons, prison in this country. Also... Finally, with our amendments, we want this law to prevent all kinds of tribute and exaltation to intolerance. All kinds of tributes to intolerance, to the dictatorial reference in our country. And it is clear that this bill is a good framework for action to neutralize all tributes to ETA members in an effective and definitive way. To that ETA that was generated in the 1960s, and that so much pain caused in the temporary space of this bill. It is reasonable to punish; and if it is punishable by law, if it is to be punishable by this Law, to recall or exalt fascism, Francoism, dictatorship, and if it is reasonable to punish such exaltation, such homage, such plaques, such... It must also be punishable to exalt ETA's criminal totalitarianism. And that's a democratic memory. ETA became this totalitarian organization within the framework of action, within the temporary framework provided for in this Law. This should be collected. It is not collected at this time, and for that reason and for the rest of the cases my group calls for the project to be returned to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...is not picked up right now. That is why, and for the rest of the cases, my group calls for the project to be returned to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Next, we're going to go up against the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars and Ciudadans. Who wants to be a part of it? Yes, yes, yes. And so, Mr. Hernandez, together with the deputy of the Podemos-Nozzer, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u8	Legebiltzarkideok, the leader of the People's Party, Major Oreja, known to all of you, described the 40 years of Franco dictatorship as a period of extraordinary placidity. For the already former president of the People's Party, Pablo Casado, the left does nothing but give the baton with the grandfather's war, or the pit of who; literal words. For a prominent leader of the People's Party in La Coruña, Millán-Astray, he was a pro Coruñés. And according to the People's Party, there are no graves to be discovered, except that the left is committed to looking for Federico García Lorca at the four cardinal points on the planet. These are the real reasons why the People's Party, Citizens and Vox groups today oppose the processing in this House of a historical memory law. Not only this one, they oppose any law of historical and democratic memory. We show our categorical opposition to the return, and therefore, paralysing the processing of the Historical Memory Bill for Euskadi. Paralyzing this project would only serve to please those who want to continue legitimizing the legacy of the terrible Franco dictatorship that devastated this country for 40 years, to please those who continue or want to continue justifying a fascist coup against a legally established democratic regime, as was the second republic, for those who want to continue legitimizing terrorist and war actions against the first legally constituted Basque Government. Our strongest rejection of the amendments tabled in their entirety, the sole intention of which, in our view, is to prevent memory and truth in this country, the sole intention of which is to prevent the victims of the Francoist coup, war and dictatorship from having justice and reparation in this country. It's made to cover your own shames. To deny that this country has truth and memory about the existence of a democratic republic that was rooted in the felony of arms and the armed coup. For those who became partners of the Nazi-fascist axis of Germany of the Third Reich and Italy of Benito Mussolini. To deny that this country lived a war provoked by those who did not accept democratic principles in that republic, and to deny that this country lived a long 40-year dictatorship based on repression and blood. Its intentions are also to deny possible justice and reparation to all victims of these historical processes. Your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are abject. They don't have arguments, they just have excuses. The excuse, the old excuse for ETA's wildcard, and the excuse for risking a lack of coexistence if the historical memory law is processed. Mr Barrio obviates the existing legislation for other victims to which he refers, and this is done deliberately. From the moral authority, which I am going to arrogate myself as a soldier in the Communist Party, which organized the first documented demonstration that took place in Euskadi against ETA, and also because it was the party whose most militants did and did in this country precisely because of the coexistence during the dictatorship and at the end of the dictatorship, we are not going to accept the arguments of the violence of ETA and the possible lack of coexistence that can generate this law. Mr. Barrio, it's a felony. Their only intention, their only intention is to avoid truth and memory, because it is annoying to them. And its only intention is to prevent progress from being made in a justice that has not existed, and in a necessary remedy for many victims who have not had it. We believe that today common sense, but also the weight of history, will bring down its amendments to the full. And from tomorrow, our group is going to work on the processing of a bill through the more than 60 amendments we have tabled to it, in order to achieve the objective that Euskadi can have a law of historical and democratic memory useful for truth, memory and also for justice and reparation. We have defended for many years the need to equip ourselves with this law, a law of memory... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... repair. We have for many years defended the need to provide us with this law, a law of historical and democratic memory for Euskadi. The project finally presented by the Basque Government, in our view, has many shortcomings. Lehendakari appealed to work and consensus in Parliament. We, of course, are ready to work and reach that consensus. We will also ask the Basque Government to be receptive and ambitious in order to have the best possible historical and democratic memory law we can have in Euskadi. And, of course, our total opposition to the amendments tabled in their entirety and to the return of this bill to the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u10	Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Today we proceed in a law which is essential to strengthen our life. A law that puts victims of civil war and dictatorship on an axis. It's a great deal of agreement. And the Integral Law, which now collects and directs and directs and directs all the progress we have acquired in Eukadin and Spain. By the way, all these progresses in memory, all these rights and all these politics, have always come from the hands of socialists and from the resistance of others. And it is that historical memory is a nuclear axis of the public policies of the Socialist Party. It is in Euskadi and it is also in the whole of Spain. And, for that very reason, we have always defended the need for a law that removes the victims of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship from oblivion, to promote moral reparation and the recovery of the personal and family memory of those who suffered persecution, violence for political, ideological or religious reasons. Also to promote plurality and ethical and democratic values by facilitating the knowledge of such terrible events of that period in the history of our country. And that's what we have on the table today, that's what we've been working on for months. An absolutely necessary and desired law by family members and associations, which comes to settle a historical debt that we had in this country. A law that puts the victims at the centre, as the axis of political action. And that it is perfectly homologable within the framework of the comparative law in this matter. It is anchored in international law and in the principles of memory, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, mostly accepted and claimed by the victims of wars and conflicts throughout the world. And an integral law, because it captures all the progress, rights and public policies developed throughout these, by the way, quite long years, always with the socialist impulse, both in Spain with the Historical Memory Act of 2007 as a great reference, as those that we have here already in Euskadi. And I would like to recall the impetus given by the government of Patxi López and also by the hand of today's vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia to the identification of Francoist symbols, to the recovery of the names of the Basques shot, to programs to return remains of people buried in mass graves, to the creation of Gogora, the first Institute of Memory of Spain. We did not start, therefore, from scratch. We've come a long way to get here. And with this law we culminate that process, giving all those initiatives, all those policies, unity, meaning and legal certainty. And we do so in line with the draft law on democratic memory approved and forwarded by the Government of Spain and which will soon be a reality. And a law also fruit of consensus, because throughout this whole process has been counted on the collaboration and contributions of the memorialist associations, of the families of the victims, of different institutions, in a place and in a context, such as the Basque, with a social and political feeling especially aware of this issue. And I think this is another important element in calibrating the importance and opportunity of this law, because the goal is not to impose a memory from above, where governments tell people what to think and what to say about our recent past. Memory policies, in order to be effective, must be based on the plurality of actors and encompass the complexity of what has happened. Because, as José Álvarez Junco tells us, when you understand the many faces of history you are likely to feel more willing to coexist with other cultures, with other beliefs and with other political positions. Amnesia, ignorance or simplification of the past lead to dogmatism. Knowing and facing the past honestly creates citizens with greater critical sense, more freedom and therefore more responsible and more democratic. That's the task we're... in which we are embarking here in Euskadi, that of advancing in a consensus that is the basis of a more solid coexistence. The search for and clarification of the cases of persecution and violence suffered by so many people during the Civil War and the dictatorship is a claim that surpassed the families themselves to spread across broad layers of Basque society that believed in this cause and asked the parties for more answers. And that feeling, that outstanding debt, is endorsed by a vast majority of the House that has relied on this historic memory law. Some with more conviction than others, it's true. But I believe that all of this, all of it, contributes to something as fundamental as non-confrontation. That here today there are more things that unite us than those that separate us. And that the votes that will allow us to proceed with the procedures of this law are, of course, grounds for celebration. However, I do not resist commenting on what the entire amendment of the People-Citizens Group points out on the non-inclusion of the victims of ETA, because for that there are, of course, other laws passed in this House. There are laws, especially Law 29/2011, on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, as well as the Basque law on victims of terrorism - although in a less restrictive way - that is... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... 29/2011, on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism, as well as the Basque law of victims of terrorism - albeit less so - which is based on the four principles of memory, dignity, justice and truth that they bring us here today, and which seek the full reparation of the victims. But we can't confuse people. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot confuse people. Because if we mix things up, especially in memory matters, we end up blurring everything. Because the temporal framework of this historical memory law runs from 1936 until the entry into force of the Constitution in 1978. And I don't think it's necessary to remember, or it shouldn't be necessary to remember that ETA existed until 2011, and that it was precisely in democracy when it most murdered, when it most extortioned and caused more victims. We already have a law for that. We already have policies for that. We already have a regulatory framework for that. Today we talk about something else; we talk about something very different. We're talking about another cause today. Today we ratify our inexcusable commitment to the recognition and reparation of those who have been buried in oblivion, or what is worse, buried in the gutters. I sincerely believe that no democratic party can oppose a law like this, that the greater the consensus around it, the stronger our democracy will be. We have a good project. It is now time to work on the amendments, and I certainly trust that a better law will emerge from that work. I'm finishing up. With this law, we will make up for our historical debt in this country. We will send them out for the loss of thousands of victims of civil war and dictatorship, and, upon his memory, we will be obliged to build a more just future in this parliament. It is difficult to conceive that any one should be opposed to this law, and therefore I hope that the vast majority we have today will be the beginning of a still greater agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mela jenerala, Iruñean, 1936ko ustailaren 19an, gera egoera aldarrikatzeko adierazpenean: "Terror must be sown. We must give the sense of domination, eliminating without scruples or hesitation to all those who do not think like us. No cowardice. The punishments will be exemplary for the seriousness with which they will be imposed and the speed with which they will be carried out, without hesitation or hesitation." She threatened him, and he filled the threat. He justified crimes against genius and society, and they were executed. To-day, these justifications of Molina, its political successors, have come to repeat this legislature. It's all the same what cells, what colors, what's their name, with the corrections of the whole of today, I hear Molina's words echo in this parliament. It is obscene to present amendments to the whole in order to refuse to recognize the hundreds of thousands killed, shot, disappeared, tortured, exiled, derived from the fascist coup, from an atrocious and unequal war and from the subsequent Francoist terror. It is unacceptable to bear excuses, to repeat lies, to clarify the responsibilities of that coup, the intensity of the suffering provoked. Today, perhaps, some would like to ratify their lies, even about the bombing of Gernika. Today they insult the victims of Francoist terrorism. Lauaxeta, Fortunato Aguirre, Kandido Saseta, Maravillas Lanberto Florecica de Larraga. Or being here, in Gasteiz, the Republican mayor Teodoro González de Zárate and all the others shot in Azazeta. His position today is obscene, it is unacceptable. It is an insult to the victims of Francoism, who still demand that we accept their pain and finally give them truth and justice. And yet, even though I am obscene, even though I am unacceptable, even though I am an insult, I would say that today we must thank them for their initiative, because it is enlightening. Clarifying: because the faces have finally been removed. You knew that you would lose this whole correction, that no one would protect him, and yet you decided to advance. You knew that not only this legislature, but that you would receive opposition from almost all the majority, but also censure. I don't know why you guys went on. I don't know what you have for that competition you've got, or, perhaps, because you've already started looking for the agreements in different governments, because you wanted to bring them here too. I don't know if you're competing for a handful of fans' voters, because I don't know if you wanted to go back to essence... Anyway, you've brought this full correction. And the truth is that with it you have drawn a line, and you have pierced it. On the one hand, you: the increasingly slimmer but also more radicalized extreme right, no matter what color. On the other side, everyone else. After years of trying to deceive us that they distanced themselves from Francoism, today you return to the origin; you return to the essence. They have clarified their position today. Today they come without disguise as they are: as the political heirs of Francoism. You drew a line. To the one side, we who continue to fight for truth and justice, and on the other side of this line for the eternalization of falsehood, and for the depth of injustice. One way, we lost the war... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... ye that stand for the further side and the deeper deep in wrong. We were the descendants of those who lost the war, but we won peace. On the other side of the line, those who applied the rights of the winners for your friends who had the immunity, your habit for your victims. Eighty-five years later, the majority of this legislature on the Basque Earth: Araba, Gipuzah, Bizia, and Nafarroan. We're with the 17,000 Basques murdered by fascism. Eighty-five years later we join the majority of soldiers and soldiers who fought against fascism and totalitarianism. We still continue to preserve the bodyguards, Lemoachas, Albertian, Begoana, Oien, and so many other tombs that they may recover their dignity from dignity. Eighty-five years later we remember Ochandio, Durango, Guernica, Galdatos, and the civil population killed in various villages. We are with those who have suffered hunger, poverty, ornament, example, prison, slave labor, child theft, torture, death, fear, and terror. So far, we're with people who suffer from prolonged exposure and repression. And you, on the other side. The battle against fascism still inspires us. The antifaxists of time, flags of social justice, of democracy, still raise the banners of freedom before old and new fascism, because their struggle is our struggle. Frankism, terrorism, victims are still waiting for the truth and give them justice. And we're late. Let us hope from this discussion to confess the victims of Frichism, and to give them the complete integration of the historical and democratic memory, a ambitious law. With these corrections of integrity today, courage, courage, and courage are given us the courage to penetrate that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The law of historical and democratic memory is the law of historical and democratic memory. No more, not even less. It's a necessary law. And he doesn't forget and he doesn't. He doesn't forget, but that's not his work, not his end. With this purpose we agreed to another law 14 years ago. This is clear, but it is also obvious that the position of the Polula Party is in. He's always used to keep away from things he doesn't like. Even today, Popular Party uses it as an excuse. The object of this law is not to make the memory of the terrorist violence, but to regain the memory of the Civil War and of those who defended democracy in front of the dictatorship, which followed the action of the State of 1936. Those who have suffered for a long time a long time a lie, violence, exile, and silence, deserve this law. And we all owe this law to the people and institutions. The bill seeks to restore the democratic memory of those individuals and institutions that defended the democratic legality of a coup d'état, the war and the subsequent dictatorship that lasted for 40 years. The memory of those who even in the worst circumstances maintained their commitment to democracy and freedom, paying a high price for it: death, torture, imprisonment, exile. This project seeks to rescue the victims of the Civil War from oblivion and the dictatorship that the dictatorial regime condemned to ostracism and oblivion, when not the lie, such as, for example, the victims of the bombing of Guernica. It is true that - as the Lehendakari has said in his speech - the road to the recovery of historical memory and the recognition of the victims of the Civil War and Francoism does not start today with this project. There are many public historic memory policies in Euskadi in recent decades. And since the creation of the Gogora Institute we have had a public body that drives them and gives them coherence and continuity. As have many, for years, public policies for the recognition and reparation of memory and truth for the victims of ETA and other terrorist groups. Victims of terrorism are the subject of a specific law passed by this Parliament 14 years ago. Law 4/2008 of 19 June, I repeat 14 years. It is this law that guarantees the right to memory and the restoration of their dignity to the victims of terrorism. The State Act on Victims of Terrorism also does so. It is therefore not necessary to repeat this objective in another law, on the grounds that the facts coincide in their temporal scope. Moreover, it was not only Law 4/2008. Mr Barrio, you have witnessed each and every initiative of this House and of the various Basque governments focusing on the memory, recognition and reparation of the victims of terrorism. Today, 14 years after passing the law that recognizes the victims of terrorism, we are working on a law that seeks to recognize and repair all victims of the coup d'état, war and subsequent dictatorship. And what you are actually doing is hiding in the argument that it forgets the victims of ETA to ask for their return, to avoid recognizing what it is so hard for them to recognize. This attitude - which is not new to you on the other hand - shows your lack of commitment to that goal. You know that, Mr. Barrio. Our commitment, that of my group and the commitment of this House to the victims of terrorism is firm and... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] .... of their lack of commitment to that goal. You know that, Mr. Barrio. Our commitment, that of my group, and this House's commitment to the victims of terrorism is firm and total. It's always been and still is now. But no, ETA cannot be the baldosinin with which to whiten its lack of interest, commitment and courage with historical and democratic memory. The second statement on which they base their amendment is that there is no reference to the victims of the Civil War provoked by the Republicans. And this statement, simply, is not true. The object of the law in its articles 1 and 3 makes it meridianally clear. The lehendakari has read them literally and I will not repeat it. But all those who suffered persecution and violence for political reasons during the Civil War and the dictatorship, all the mortal victims of bombing, extrajudicial or summary executions, among others, are subject to this law. All of them. It is true, however, that this law makes a specific mention of those victims who died or disappeared as a result of the defence of democratic legality in the face of the military coup and the Franco dictatorship. For two obvious reasons. First, because we are faced with a law that seeks to restore the democratic memory snatched away by the military coup and dictatorship. And, second, because these victims were also condemned to oblivion, while all those you mentioned in your speech have had, all of them, all the honors: acts of memory, monuments have been erected for them, all of them have had streets, even today they keep a crypt in the central area of Vista Alegre cemetery in Derio, for example. It is not true that they have no regard for victims. Democracy recognizes the injustice committed with them. It is also time for you to recognize the injustices committed by the uprisings and the subsequent dictatorship for 40 years. Withdraw the amendment in its entirety and demonstrate your commitment to the memory of these forgotten victims. Dignifying and recognizing the victims of a dictatorship, keeping their memory alive, restoring violated rights and redressing injustice should be a common heritage of all. A memory in which all democrats should recognize each other. I want to end up with the same words as the presentation of the law in the project. Today, we owe it to our children to do the justices of the whole world and to protect this bill of law. If we must leave a better society, the future must be well rooted in the past. All that has lived and suffered must serve us to strengthen ethical and democratic worth. In a civil war and under dictatorship we owe freedom and democracy to those who lost their lives or their estates. On June 25th, 1937, next week, near here on the walls of Santa Isabel cemetery, the Euscal poet, patriotic and our fellow party, he wrote: "And at the last hour I caress the horses that go up high in a tight breath. And let the light of the light slip through the fair innocent eye; let the pale, good hands stretch out for them, the donation. Absorbage atses that she's raking all the time. They have bowed their necks, O mine head, In the sweet bosom of our mother's land. And, my brethren, keep the struggle, that is to say, the mother of the eulogies. Let me think for a moment of hope." Let us hope for it, we owe it to all our victims, especially to our heirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u16	Thank you, President. I think I have explained myself quite clearly, I have tried to do so in defence of my entire amendment. I have spoken about the absences, and that I not only make them clear in this amendment of the whole that has been obliged within the approach we were making in relation to the analysis of a bill, as we do with another, because in this case with this one, and those absences are sufficiently justifying for us of the approach of an amendment of the whole. We will continue to discuss that bill. I have also commented when, following the intervention of the lehendakari, I share some or many of the issues that can be dealt with in that bill as necessary. I do not know, some of the interventions in relation to, at least, my speech, or our entire amendment, have been a root disqualifier. Well, again we've been called franchise heirs, well, the usual, disqualification collection. But I have put on the table two realities that I believe are missing in this bill. They're in absence, there's no justification. Mr Iturrate, Mr Hernández, Mr Arzuaga, Mr Andueza, for they have spoken of justifications for why they are not, and I have put forward a justification for why they are, why these realities must be, which are realities that no one can deny, but which do not appear in the bill. The crimes of the republican side, the war crimes of the republican side and the totalitarian project of ETA. I was not referring so much to the victims of terrorism, the victims of ETA, that we will always have them, but in this case I was referring to the totalitarian project of ETA; to which he wanted to end our coexistence, to whom he wanted to end democracy. That's what I'm talking about. And the absence of that totalitarian project in a law of historical and democratic memory because we did not conceive it. It is not democratic if we do not contemplate all the realities and all the realities that have been violating our recent history and our democracy. And that's why we're acting. I have done it constructively, and I have tried to do it constructively. I came here with my arguments. Mr. Hernández has made me a collection of references... Well, I don't know, I spoke here and explained my reasons and those of my group. And I have also told you that I can share much of the bill. But I said there are absences... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... In addition, I can share a good part of the bill, but I have said that there are absences. I mean, now ETA is a wild. Now ETA is already a wild. Now it's a wild. I don't know... I don't know what... I don't know how... It's just that it's unfair, a wildcard can never be ETA. It is a reality, it is a reality that our historical and democratic memory has been a violation of human rights and our coexistence and our democratic possibilities. It's not a wild card. How am I not going to use ETA, how am I not going to lie, how am I not going to condemn it, once again, at all legal or legal-political or legal times that I can do so? In memory of the victims of ETA, of course, but in memory of our coexistence, of that of this Parliament, among other things, of the reconstruction of our values of freedom and democracy. And logically, there is one of the main stumbling blocks in all that time frame within which this law is built. I can't forget that, and we can't forget that. And if we forget, we'll be doing a collective amnesia exercise. We'll make ETA a wild card... Soon an excuse from the People's Party... I mean, it's gonna be an excuse from the ETA People's Party at the end. I don't know, that's very unfair, Mr. Hernández, that's very unfair. And I think we are very right to say that ETA is part of the violation of human rights and democratic coexistence in this country and that this has to appear in a law of historical and democratic memory within the temporary framework in which this law is established. I mean, we're talking about the person who installed this law. Let's see. I've been, I'll be when I need it, in Azazeta, I'll be with the victims of Francoism. I've been in the tributes to Theodore Olarte. I've been. He was a friend of much of his family and of his descendants. And of course I will always condemn their attitude to him. Absolutely, absolutely. And I've been in the tributes and I'll always be. And I've been at Elgoibar Colombary every time they call me and call me back. And I'll be in many other places. And it will be me, my party and parliamentary group partners. We will be. That's right. I don't know, I don't have to justify myself on those issues. That can't be a criticism. Of course I've been there. Others aren't elsewhere, but I'm there, of course, and we're there and we recognize it. And as we will when we are talking about this law, of course we will. But they are missing, but there are forgetfulness, there are clamorous forgetfulness, there are clamorous absences. And I, of course, referred to that. It is clear that the totalitarian project of ETA must be included in a project of these characteristics. And then, the victims of the side, the victims of the crimes to which I referred before, of the Republican side, are not, Mr Iturrate, are not. You have to read the law to realize that that reference is missing, which I think is very important. Again, the events that have taken place and those that I have referred to earlier in prisons and on prison ships and in other places have a need to be reminded of these victims as well. You can't say they were remembered... Already in Franco's time they remembered. No, no, no, it's just that we have to remember them now, because they are Basque families -Bilbains, Vizcains - Spanish who suffered that tragedy, who suffered those crimes, who must be recognized, who cannot be forgotten. And of course, and now that your memory is also attacked, much less so. I think that, that absence, is part of what we have tried to bring to this debate. Of course, I do not divert any ball and, for that very reason, I want to say that we are going to analyze this bill with all seriousness and with all the objectivity of the world, but highlighting the absences and appreciating them. I think there is a margin... maybe it is a minority group of course in the House, but I can appeal to your ladies and gentlemen's reflection on the shortcomings that I have put on the table. Well, now they're calling me... They tell me no, to avoid that moment of the whole amendment. Well, it's politics and it's parliamentarianism, we'll get to the point of analysing the amendments. But I believe that these are issues that I have put on the table, and we have done a special exercise of rigour so that we do not get here precisely, to the rejection of our amendment of the whole, the thick line, the brush, which is what has happened in one of the speeches; in some of the speeches we have received brush. No, we have spun fine, because we were talking about Euskadi's historical and democratic memory from 1936 to 1978, and we have identified a number of absences in this bill. We've identified them. Another thing is that some of you don't like that we've identified them or that they don't like that we've identified them, and that they just want to focus the law on a series of goals. Well, let it be said, but clearly, and let it be clearly entitled. But it cannot be a law of historical and democratic memory from 1936 to 1978 with these clamorous absences of regulation and identification of realities and imposition of totalitarian projects and victims of war crimes in a very clear context, of innocent people. It's clear. There's that oblivion and I'm going to be allowed to keep defending it. I... We have found those absences. And indeed, Mr Andueza was saying - and I agree - that there can be no amnesia, there can be no ignorance about what has happened. Of course I do. Sure. And we'll always be there, and we'll always want justice with the victims of Francoism. All the justice that is necessary. You've remembered... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Of course I do, of course. And we'll always be there, and we'll always want justice with the victims of Francoism. All the justice that is necessary. You have recalled laws... decrees throughout Spain, also recognizing the victims of Francoism, the officials, the families. In other words, there should be more. All necessary. But also to all, those who were not of Francoism, those who were the demans of the Republic or the demans of the autonomic government that was unable to control some crimes of those characteristics. May they also be recognized. All the victims of the Civil War, all the victims of the coup d'état, all the victims of Francoism, and all the victims. All of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u17	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Hernandez must take the word. I think you're taking four teams.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u18	Mr Barrio, you say that they identify a number of absences, and present an amendment in its entirety. When it was a bill a number of absences are identified, there is no amendment to the whole, which is what you have done. Why? Because the arguments you make are not the reasons why you oppose the processing of a historic memory bill. Not just this one, everyone. Does not the Bible say that you will know them by their works? By their works, by their actions, those of their party, we know them in this matter. It is not the lack of protection for ETA victims or other victims that concerns them. The reasons why this law is not addressed to these victims have been argued by different spokespersons. But it doesn't matter to you, because your only objective is to continue to deepen in memory, and to continue to confront the need that this country has for truth, memory and also for justice and reparation. Today you say that the victims of the dictatorship also have to have justice. But the opinion of the People's Party is well known, saying that judging the crimes of Francoism would break the agreements of the Transition and democratic coexistence. You here today, you see a... or you give an image of a lamb, which does not correspond to the policies that the People's Party defends in this matter. That is why we have said that its amendments, which are the only ones that are hiding, are their encouragement so that this country at once can move forward in the matter of truth, memory, justice and reparation to what was a coup d'état against a democratic legality, that of the Second Republic; a war imposed by those who rose up in arms, and a dictatorship based on the brutal repression of the people of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Barrio said, "We don't want any hindrances." And they present an amendment in its entirety. We should wait for the law being dealt with in Congress, but there they have also tabled another amendment to the whole. "We don't remember the victims of the national side." Don't you find little recognition of the display of symbols and monuments to the fallen who for so many decades have remembered only the victims of one part? Look, today's debate directly questioned you, directly questioned you and your past. And they've missed a brilliant opportunity to condemn Francoism. One of the words he has used most in his speeches has been absence. Look, do you know what the absence that hurts me the most? I will tell you, it is the absence of Josefina, to which Mr Arzuaga has referred. I met Josefina. Josefina was the daughter of Vicente Lamberto, who was a UGT militant from Larraga, which is a village, is very close to the village of my paternal grandparents. Look, on August 15, 1936, some gentlemen took Vicente Lamberto, specifically civilian guards, a phalanxist and a request. When they expressed it, their daughter Wonders, who were then 14 years old, came out after her father; and when they arrived at the city hall, the two disappeared. And once I heard one thing from Josefina - who by the way, a few days ago, unfortunately died -: "I have been suffering the untold for 80 years. My sister was raped and killed. They found her naked, half burned with gasoline and bitten by the dogs. My father, he was buried in a pit and never showed up. My mother was taken prisoner. We're my ten-year-old sister Pilar and me seven-year-old sister. The two solicas. We went to the Social Help dining room and they made us sing face to face in the sun. When my mother was released, she first asked in the street and then became a maid in a military's house. We only saw her on Sundays. One day, a woman, she gave us the two sisters and said: we must also kill the little ones, who then become great. That woman went to Mass and communed. She was the one who had stolen our mare, because after the murders, they stole everything from us. I got into a nun, but other nuns told me: something would have done to your father. I got out. They took my faith in everything. I don't believe in anything anymore." Just for that, Mr. Barrio, this law is worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u22	Yes, thank you. Mr. Barrio, your arguments are fallacious. It is a lie what it tells us here, because you, if you oppose the law of historical memory for what does not appear, present partial amendments; but you have brought us here an amendment to the whole, not by clamorous absences, but by clamorous presences. Because you cannot assume what appears in this Law today. If there had been a misinterpretation of his words or his intentions, if they had had some scruple... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Today it appears. If there had been a misinterpretation of his words about his intentions, if they had had a certain scruple to be misinterpreted, they would not have brought this amendment to the full. You say that you have a great deal of sensitivity towards the victims of Francoism, but you have referred to Theodoro Gonzalez de Zárate, as is their attitude towards him: to take him out of the house, to take him to Azazeta, to shoot him. He referred to it with attitude. The word you used in other cases is murder, flugrants. And you've got a good eye, like, 850 victim. And it's all right, and they deserve what's true and what's right. But I don't understand how difficult you are to see hundreds of victims. 114,000 still missing, of the seventy-seven thousand victims, of the Basque People. You can't see it here, and ask for justice and memory for them. I hope that with the debate that you have brought us, a better law will come out, a more ambitious law will come out. And let us also try now to introduce more forcefully an amendment to sanction attitudes of negationism of the Franco genocide, such as those we have heard here today. I'm done. There is a method to perform a simple inductive reasoning to detect obviities, which is called the duck test. If he grazes like a duck, walks like a duck, and behaves like a duck, then he's probably a duck. After what I have heard here, after the boasting, contempt of the victims of fascism, I must say that if you grazna as franchisors, if you walk as franchisors and behave as franchisors, it is surely because you are franchisors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Iturate, Eurate patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u24	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Of course, Mr Barrio, that ETA has been a fundamental element, a fundamental agent of human rights violations in this country. That is why their victims have long had their own specific regulatory framework. And it is surprising that you, the People's Party, who have been the champions in this Parliament of the theory of non-equalization between victims, for years we have heard that mantra from your mouth not to confuse violence, not to feed the theory of conflict, right here today, when we are trying to give recognition and reparation to the victims of dictatorship, to pose clear positions about that barbarity, you here manifest just the opposite. The right thing, Mr. Barrio, is not to call ETA wild, the unfair and the scandalous thing is to use ETA continuously as wild. Do not call it a wild, use it as a wild, which is what you do, to cover up all that debate you do not want to enter, or to justify any position that is unjustifiable to you. That's using ETA as a wild card or as a whitener, and that's what's truly unfair, Mr. Barrio. We are going to work on this amendment from the maximum consensus, we are going to try, I am convinced, a good law, because it is a good project, and a good law is going to come out, and it is going to come out from the maximum consensus. But, Mr Barrio, calling for consensus while an amendment of the whole is being tabled and calling for it to be returned is a bad starting point. Therefore, I invite you, you are still in time, withdraw the amendment, withdraw your amendment, your request for a return and join the work of the consensus, if you are sincere the words you have wanted to send here today, unless your entire amendment does not respond to that, but responds to your obsessive desire for the ultra-right in recent times, and to the struggle for that political space that has them so constrained and so limited. I hope that this is the opposite and withdraw the amendment before it is put to the vote. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. When the discussion's over, it's going to vote if the bill's coming back or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u26	It doesn't come back to you. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: 1st The motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Ibaña Cortha, of the D.H., concerning the need of a new universal system of family stations, and the proposal of the same as that of the rest of Podemos, which has been made by the parlamentary faction of Podemos, to aid the growth of a universal system of service, universal, and corresponding to the right of life of children. It's your turn, Mrs. Kotja's, to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u27	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everybody. I'd say that we're living a very special moment, we've got challenges in our hands, and what we're doing in politics is a big responsibility. Because we're planning the future on a big grade, and those we're doing now can determine the chances for a whole decade, a whole generation's life project. Look at our hands, our experimentative life, the reconstruction of individual and collective courses, for which public policies are built and placed resources in our hands, to enhance the weakness and instability of our lives, and to create structures and strategys to support life. I think that's a very strong thing to do, and from that responsibility... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... to fineize, and to create structures and strategies of support for life. I think that's a strong thing, and we ought to take that responsibility to discuss it. And one of those great challenges is the demographic challenge, right? A challenge of this size, as I said to the head of the Artola generous department, demands a political attempt to prepare for the future, requires an intelligent, planned, and just way of answering our challenge. And that's what we tried on May 18th, isn't it? And the other day, we said, we did not succeed in building a shared soil, which our public policy will place. It was obvious that we have differences. It seems to me that we should also identify the principal issues that surround the demography, the division and arrangement, the preparation, the preparation, the price of the housing, the increase of inequality and poverty, the late age of fertility... But after that, it wasn't a question of commercial proportions to revolutionize them, was it? Cuando se toca un poquito nervio o hueso, pues que no quiren comprometersiado con el futuro. Some superficial measure is taken, in order to improve the condition, some palial measure, but no structural measure was agreed. And what we're planning on is that he'll be evaluated in a way and that we'll go in a short look, which we think is too short of. And I think it's a clear testimony of the discussion about family preparations, isn't it? What we were trying to bring back here today. I think it's clear that there are no magic formulas in order to reach complex substances, and that sometimes they are invented and sometimes made worse. But when, seeing that the ends are not fulfilled, knowing that we are not taking steps on the road marked by our fellow-citizens, knowing that our pretty ones are making differences, knowing that a large quantity of public money is taking a turn in the opposite direction of the objects to which they please, knowing that those we most want to protect are left behind, and knowing that the measures that are not used otherwise than they are, and that the results are bad, and that we are going ahead of them, and that we are going to evaluate them, and that we are going to do one thing or the other is not a bad strategy, and that we are going to prepare the future. And besides, the consequence of not knowing how to prepare the future, as we have it in our hands, ought to be learned from it. And above all, the citizen condemns a whole generation to fragility, which is serious. The president announced a 200- euro support in the monographic pleno, right? As long as his kids were 0-3 years old? It was the first indication of an engagement taken in 2018. We told the chief physician that he was in a bad mood, but he explained it better than we did this week about the investigations of the Save Childen public. Save The Children has told us that the cost of raising in 2022 is 769 euros per month per child. In 2018, the average cost was 645 euros per month. Since then, the care of children and adolescents has increased from 19 per cent to 28 per cent. The increase exceeds the overall increase in the prices of the Basque economy, which reveals the relative increase in the growth rate. Besides, the results show us how much the first cost increases, don't they? You see, they made a graphic, very significant graphic, and you can see that it's 616 in the year of 0-3, while 721, 4-6 years old, 7-12, 806, and 13-17 is 837. Save The Childen shows us that it is very great to be able to guarantee that the cost of raising children and teenagers with dignity is indispensable. And this was also received in this treaty of Euscala to protect families and children. However, more than half the families with children have their income at first, or they have difficulty in answering the cost, because they have more than 50% to use. And that doubts about the welfare of the children of those families. Savee takes the value of the Childen, and that first step is taken with that help of zero-3, but they say it is absolutely necessary that we proceed in universal aids directed to the breeding of children, and they ask us to continue until 18 years. And in the same line there are associations like Unicef or Hirut. With these facts before you, you can't understand how to limit them for three years, and still less when you design a ten-year strategy. It may be interesting as a first step, as a first step, in the direction of commitment to Europe, as a measure contrary to child poverty. But we can't understand −eta, desde luego, we can't accept a strategy of − 10 years, these helps, not defining a clear page of the way to prolong our children at least over 18 years. I said we need a light vision of the future to reach this challenge, and we need to know where we're going. The government says it will evaluate, and according to this it will decide, and define a progress, but that is not a strategy, it does not offer any guarantee. It's hard to guess where you want to go without being smart on the road. But I also said it the other day: it is less understood that in a ten-year strategy it is discarded, it is said that no, to redesign the aid system in an integral way, especially when this was already collected and committed and justified enough in both the family pact and the family plan. This is a commitment you have made to citizenship. I asked him and asked the counselor about it the other day, but he was not able to explain why now in the ten-year strategy we do not contemplate this new design of the strategy. Ahemandás, the president described it in the plune... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...that new design of the strategy is not envisaged. Además, the President explained in the plenoe that it will be compatible with the present tax-collectors, and also with the rents of money. That this measure will strengthen several helps and coverage, and build a system of appropriate conditions for the giving and family construction. But you, Presidents, you know that this is not the case, and that the rest are excluded from this system by the most vulnerable families and the lowest revenues. You know well, you know well also zeintzuk diren systemren adabakiak, identifikatuak daudelako bear was Argian, perfectly described in the diagnosis of the IV Family Plan of this government. In addition, the plan itself already proposed the design of this new aid system. But you also have a report that says, among other things, that the current system consolidates a treatment of family burdens by clearly regressive sons and daughters, removed from an egalitarian vision that corresponds to support for families with dependent descendants, that forgets those who do not have enough income and therefore do not generate enough IRPF share, or that leaves aside mothers who are not contributors; while at the same time it allows to obtain tax benefits and subsidies on the birth of descendants close to or above 20,000. And this is not said by Euskal Herria Bildu, says the head of the Tax Administration Service of the Department of Economy and Finance of the Basque Government in a report to which a media outlet had access. Orduan, zentzu horretan, you dugu hausnarketa bi horiek ezinbestekoak say it: 18 urterak progression hours Egypt age, sheath, system berri age koherente batarako bidea Egypt. Ze, beast, nagusitzen ari da laguntza eredu inkoherente bat, which opts to maintain, opts to maintain an incoherent model and, obviously, inefficient. And that I think in a ten-year strategy is not a good sign. I think we need a whole system, a solid one, which requires a schedule to make that system visible and easily accessible. And that requires a clear vision and a planning. And in the ten years' strategy, inevitably, now, before it's too late, we have to get hold of this planning. We know the consequences of this defect of planning, and are the results which have been made by the Euscal family and children in the previous demographic essay to protect them. And they are: the rate of birth in the lowest record, and the poverty of children in the direction above. In this sense, or rather ambitious measures are taken, bold measures are taken and acquired of structure, or very innocent or careless to think of superficial measures, such as are small, and such changes as are large. In that sense, for the end, I'd like to thank Miss Isabel, I'm not... Mrs. González, forgive the honesty, the integrity of the bargain; we were placed in the same position, and it was very easy to make a deal between us. Also to lie in that belly where the operators plan us. And we've made a good attempt...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u28	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u29	Yeah, I'm done. We've made an honest attempt on the government too, and with the teams that support the government, but it's impossible. It was impossible, on the one hand, to commit to fulfill his engagements, if this is the mark−; and, on the other hand, a very rational thing, to keep these assistance until 18 years. "Esto es e que va a por Tabaco y ya no vuelve, proes es es es poco lo que harantedo el Gobierno."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u30	Together, Podemos-Nozzer representative of the Animals, Mrs. Gonzalez. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u31	Good morning, congressmen. The debate that we are having today, the joint debate on child-rearing benefits, is at odds with the debate we had a few weeks ago on the demographic challenge. It is also linked to the debate on the reform of the GIR, but also to the European strategy to combat child poverty, and even to the pact for equality that was presented yesterday. And this is not the first time we have addressed this debate, nor will it be the last time we are betting on not giving coherence to children's policies. We brought a non-law proposal last year to this plenary on child poverty in which we proposed the creation of a benefit. Then you didn't get a deal. But, well, after a few months we've seen it written in the Demographic Challenge Strategy. Something is something, and, well, we're waiting to see what that Euskadi children's guarantee program is about. But there is a crushing reality. The reality is that child poverty does not wait. It is not a phenomenon of the pandemic, it is a structural problem that we have been dragging, which is increasing, and that the later we cut it for many boys and girls the solution will come too late. I believe that all of us in this House agree and agree on the need to support families, even if they do not all recognize the diversity of families. Because we know the impact of economic and social crises on families and on the most vulnerable people within families - children, girls and young people - how crises undermine the right to develop fully, to live happily, to feel loved, protected, to receive quality education, to enjoy leisure and sport, to eat rich and healthy, to have clothes that shelter them in winter, to have a home where they are comfortable, happy, protected, not to be victims of violence even at home, to be heard, to participate in policies that affect them. Being a child and living at risk or in poverty threatens each and every one of these rights. That there are children in poverty is to fail them; and it is to fail them as a society, and it is to fail families in the necessary support that we have an obligation to give them. And I believe that this is an indisputable consensus. Why are we bringing him back here? Because we ask this government again to... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the obligation to give them. And I believe that this is an indisputable consensus. Why are we bringing him back here? Because we again call on this Government to show the real political will to take child poverty seriously and to bet that it is a country's goal to eradicate it. Because the policies we implement in support of child rearing cannot be directed to an increase in birth per se, they cannot be based on baby check ads, however much they imply a short-term joy and relief. Nor do we believe that the decline in birth has causes other than an economy that dismantles public services, precariouss jobs and ignores the burden of care. Support for children and upbringing should focus on who are the present in our society, whose families often do not arrive at the end of the month to pay for decent housing, decent education or decent food, among other issues. We ask this government again to take serious children's poverty. Let him show true political will, and make it disappear. For the policies which we impose upon breeding cannot be directed to increase the rate of birth, but they cannot be founded on the advertisements of the child, which in a short time may be lightened. We do not see in Euskadi policies of support for child rearing which are acceptable to the rest of the European Union. Let us remember that child poverty is not disconnected from adult poverty. And again we remember that there are no poor children living in isolated entities, there are families behind in the same situation. This week we were attending the GIR appearances. And we would like to emphasize the reflections that have been repeated by several experts: that having sons and daughters in Euskadi is a factor of impoverishment, that child poverty rates are growing, that child poverty and severe poverty are increasing by the very evolution of the labour market and the pension system, that if we do not act now the inequality gap will widen and that GIR alone cannot eradicate poverty. Several statistics have been published these days. And I think Nerea Kortajarena mentioned some. The announcement came out that the autonomous community had registered birth minimums since the 1970s. And we also have Save the Children's recent report on the cost of raising in Euskadi. In the debate on the demographic challenge, as far as families were concerned, we saw that we were spending a lot of money, on the one hand, on providing tax benefits, but, look, that do not benefit all families, and, on the other hand, on social assistance. These two systems should converge, as we already see being done in other countries, but here in Euskadi this does not happen. We propose that public policies should be designed, on the one hand, predistributive, which regulate the labour market, housing or the productive system, and, on the other hand, redistributive, which is to build a taxation that benefits all and, on the other hand, to ensure that the entire system of benefits (GIR, ESAs or housing benefits) is adapted to... with the common objective of guaranteeing the right not to suffer, well, social exclusion or to be poor. We had... Well, we welcomed with optimism Lehendakari's announcement of the 200-euro aid for families with sons and daughters from zero to three years. But let us not forget that the cost of raising does not end at three years. And that's very well gathered here in this study, which we don't say. 29,000 families in the autonomous community cannot cover the maintenance of their children. Most Basque families spend more than half of their income on rearing. The cost of raising increases with age, from 13 to 17 years reaches 837 euros per month. And the zero to three band, the highest expense families have is in conciliation; there are no free haurreskolas to this day. More than half of the families in Euskadi do not have enough income to cover the cost of raising. So we believe - and not just ourselves, but the organizations that are on the Children's Platform - that the policy of child-rearing is not enough. And my parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, on this occasion together with Euskal Herria Bildu, feels the obligation to make diagnoses glued to the street and to propose just and courageous policies so that those who wish can afford to bring life to this world and give life to our peoples and our cities. And we propose to give investment in childhood a truncal character; if you want, call it identity policy. And that Euskadi's economic policy consolidates the message that we here defend, protect and promote children's rights. It should also be understood that every child has the right to a decent upbringing in Euskadi, which is recognized as a universal right. That in order to create a universal system of upbringing is necessary a dual or mixed way: on the one hand, that it improves the tax benefits, that is, refundable for the lowest incomes, and, on the other hand, it continues to rely on targeted benefits. And neither do we, because it is also in the reports of the Children's Platform of the organizations that belong. And we think now is the time. Why do we think it's time? Because we know that the revenue collection has improved. If the collection improves, a redistribution of that wealth must also be made. The most resilient, cohesive and therefore fairer societies are those that implement policies that advance in the triple distribution of work, wealth and care. And now is the time because, in addition, the budgets of the Basque Government are in the design phase. And now is the time because they are previously made political commitments, such as those that come in the Family Support Plan, which recognized the need to work in that dual system. And now is the time because we now have the capacity and resources to expand that social protection system. Now it's time to do this because we have the resources, because they're making next year's budgets, and it's time for you to do it while you're doing that. I'll see you today... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] Because we have, because they're making next year's budgets, and it's because I was willing to do it during my previous law. Today we see ourselves in this plenary confronting two models: that of assistanceist support for upbringing up to the three years proposed by the groups supporting the Government, and the universal and just model, which we will not tire of defending and which we propose here today. Aligned with the majority proposed by organizations working in children: a review of the tax system, an extension of child benefits up to the age of 18, the possibility of combining both as a strategy to eradicate and prevent poverty, the participation of children's and children's own organizations in the design and revision of those instruments that are designed and the increase of resources that facilitate the management of this system, to dignify it and to make it known. This is what we encourage you to vote for. We call on you, from the sum of our initiatives, to build a common consensus on support for children, but also on the social legitimacy of a system that allows us to redistribute wealth in Euskadi and to make public policies that guarantee children's access to all their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representative of the popular-Chaunos team, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning. Well, we're talking about the family again and a theme that is connected with the demographic challenge. Is it true two or three years ago? ), I don't remember, but we had a detailed plano on the demographic challenge. It's true that to... In addressing the issue of the demographic challenge, it is inexcusable to talk about family policies and that they must undoubtedly occupy a prominent place. In turn, the comprehensive, cross-cutting strategy we are talking about, which addresses the demographic challenge, which for now we do not have a definitive strategy despite having been a promise of the lehendakari in the investiture already in 2016. We are in 2022 and we do not have a specific strategy that addresses the issue of the demographic challenge. We have some documents that are provisional, but we still do not have this definitive strategy. As I said, this strategy must address all those measures that are necessary for our young people to be able to emancipate themselves and achieve their emancipation. Argi dago strategy demografikoari buruz hitz egiten dugunean, ezinbastekoa da behar diren neurriak sustatzea gure gasteak emantzipazioa lortzeko. It is clear that the factors clearly affecting the emancipation of young people are their economic situation and their personal situation. The age of emancipation of young Basques is 30.2 years, 4 years older than the average in the European Union, and also higher than in the rest of the autonomous communities. And it must be said that the difficulties facing our young people, especially in Euskadi, where we see that these figures are the highest compared to the rest of the autonomous communities and the rest of the European Union, clearly affects birth and fertility rates. So the birth rate here too -- we beat all the records, but the records... Obviously because the figures speak for themselves – the birth rate in Euskadi stands at 1.28 very far from the 2.1 figure, which is estimated to be the figure necessary to guarantee generational relief. And if we go to evolution over a period of time of quite a few years, we see that it has been significant. 1975, we had a rate of 19.75 %. And now, in 2020, one of 6.73%. Well, we see the figures as they are. The Basque families clearly do not have the number of children they would like. The average age of Basque women, who have their first child, is 32.6 years compared to the average age of the European Union, which is 29.2 years. And we say they don't get it at the age they'd want because they'd want to have them at the age of 28. In Euskadi, therefore, the decline in birth, late emancipation, the delay in the age of motherhood and higher life expectancy have clearly resulted in an ageing population. As I said, also the Lehendakari in the full monographic past on this issue, told us that in demographics the answers are not automatic. Ematen say weretzunak drink helburuak ez due berehala ematen, ez? That responses should be seen as a sustained multi-pronged and articulated project, and results cannot be expected in the short term. Indeed, I will reply to Lehendakari that we agree with this approach, but indeed, as we agree with this approach and the Government must be aware of the complexity of addressing an issue such as the demographic challenge and that the measures that need to be implemented are short, medium and long-term, it must undoubtedly be said that Mr Urkullu's Government, the Government of the People in this area has gone late. It's been too late. And I am going to refer to part of the unfulfilled commitment to develop a demographic challenge strategy in time and form. It was also the different... The delay in the adoption of the various instruments that we have. The III Family Plan ended in 2015, the IV Family Plan came in 2018, the evaluation of the III Family Plan, which ended in 2015 and came in 2017. Many of the measures envisaged in the III Family Plan and in the IV Family Plan itself have not been able to put into effect in time and form, either because the necessary instruments to put in place them contemplated them... It regulated it, rather, as the regulatory development or the approval of the decrees that had to be adopted, because they were not approved either in the... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... it regulated, rather, as the regulatory development or the approval of the decrees that had to be adopted, since they were not adopted either in time and in form. Then we saw electoral announcements, such as that announcement where we were told that EUR 1 billion would be spent by 2020, beyond the millions of euros already recorded in the budgets in the autonomous communities. Of this money that was made in the 2016 campaign, of course, in this Parliament we have had no record of how it has been implemented or how it has been implemented. We believe that, obviously, it was an announcement that was left on wet paper. On the other hand, as we have repeated on numerous occasions in the debates that we have brought to this House, these measures are (?I would like to refer to the children's aid for conciliation, and not to the measures, but to the aid. And in that regard, we have put forward numerous initiatives for extending not only the amounts, but their extension over time. Now the lehendakari announces to us, announced to us the past... the other day, an aid of 200 euros per child in charge until the end of three years and until 2023. We also believe that if we have the birth problem that we have, we do not understand how this aid is limited to ten years only, and obviously we do not consider it to be a much longer period. For us, therefore, they are insufficient aid. Y, well, by all means, a la iniciativa... We have proposed two corrections to the proposition introduced by Poseidon and Podemos, and we must say that, though we agree in certain particular things, we must say that with the proposals introduced by Podemos and Collectus, there is no common agreement with common sense. In principle, we do not agree with the proposal to... well, in principle we do not agree with the proposal by Bildu and Elkarrekin We can more than anything for the purpose of the initiative. We do not agree on the basic approach. As far as the amendment we have tabled is concerned, we believe that it is necessary to alleviate the situation of Basque families, where inflation is at present unabated and unabated by the economic impact it has on families in general, and in particular, in our field... in the context of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. You can't suffocate with taxes, as you are doing to people, with the possibility, in addition, of reducing taxes. We have a relatively healthy economy, we have records in the collections by the outside parliaments, records that the first months go beyond 20%, which gives us an amount of more than 700 million euros, almost 800 million euros with remnants in the Basque Government of 1.5 billion euros. Therefore, we do not understand what we are waiting for, and what we have in the Economic Concert, to reduce taxes on the Basque citizens with whom it is falling. We believe that the effort made by the Basque citizens and which they have made over all these years, and which they are doing especially now at a time of economic crisis, with prices as they are, with inflation out of hand, what we had to do is reduce taxes and deflate the rate. On the other hand, we do agree on a question with the proponents, which is true that those who are not obliged to declare, to make a declaration of income, because they do not reach the minimum, to the minimum amount established, because they may be at a disadvantage, and we also ask that this situation be addressed. And now, finally, I am going to refer to an issue that we also consider in one of our proposals which was discussed in the demographic challenge, which was also approved, which is the aid by subsidising the amount of social security in the case of the hiring of a caregiver who was in the three years, and that it is true that this measure was put up to the age of 14 as an exceptional measure in the times of the pandemic. And we ask that it be extended until the age of 14 and approved, and that's fine. But, I believe that as it has been approved or announced that it will be adopted by a decree in the Basque Government, it is insufficient. It is insufficient, because we believe that it should also cover situations of dependency and/or disability without age limits, since these situations are very special for Basque families. And, on the other hand, we believe that it is necessary to eliminate the income criterion established as a requirement. And finally I'm done, Madam President. We also propose to eliminate the income criterion for the receipt of child support, in order to set them up. This is the way to set up these aids as universal aids. And finally, apart from establishing a timetable for the progressive extension of the aid already established, as well as the economic benefit of the EUR 200, saying that they have to go beyond the period currently envisaged for existing aid, such as this aid of the EUR 200, which will only reach 3 years. That's all, thank you, Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u34	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u35	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the need for a new universal system of family benefits, and for us this is a very important debate, not a new one, and that is why we are going to focus the issue well. We had a debate on October 29, 2020, where it was assumed by agreement between the Basque Socialists, Basque Nationalists and Popular group the elaboration of a plan on demographic challenge, with 2030 horizon, of interdepartmental character... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... group Basque Socialists, Basque Nationalists and Popular the elaboration of a plan on demographic challenge, with 2030 horizon, of interdepartmental and interinstitutional character. That working paper, we have had with it since 14 December 2021, which is serving as the basis for the elaboration of the Basque strategy of demographic challenge 2030, and it is expected that it will be available by June of this year, this same month. Moving ahead with its completion, we discussed and had a monograph on demographic challenge on 18 May, which we found positive, where we agreed among the various parliamentary groups on proposals of great importance and assumed the commitment that these proposals will be integrated into the Basque strategy of demographic challenge 2030. And one of the measures announced by the lehendakari in his intervention was that of a grant, an aid of 200 euros per month for each son or daughter up to three years, advancing in the universal support to the upbringing in line with the countries of our environment, being this proposal superior to that of Save The Children, in which they consider that it would be desirable to have aid in the upbringing of 100 euros per month of universal character and that it reaches the greatest number of families beyond the levels through the tax system. In this debate, the proposing group, the EH Bildu group, requested that this measure be extended to 18 years of age, but that proposal was not agreed. Although you have acknowledged today Mrs Kortajarena that this proposal that was put forward on the same day is interesting. On 3 June, an inquiry was presented by the EH Bildu group to the full control, and this motion is being debated today. And curiously, the Elkarrekin group We can also on that same day, June 3, also recorded the GNP that has been accumulated to the point that we are debating right now. I don't know, but it looks like there's a little race between EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos in this matter. That proposal was discussed exactly and was not accepted, and it did not take a month for it to be resubmitted to this House. With what they intend to convey the idea that if this proposal is not accepted now, absolutely nothing is being done in family policies. And the reality is very different. But, as I pointed out in the full monograph, in recent years, the Basque institutions have carried out actions that have affected the demographic reality with policies aimed at different areas: families, reconciliation, co-responsibility, employment, housing, social protection. Steps must be taken to change trends in the short, medium and long term: to achieve the short-term objective of changing that trend in the population pyramid; in the medium term, to ensure that this change in trend is sustained and sustainable; and in the long term, to move from a scenario of demographic decline to a scenario of population recovery, reinforcing the ongoing actions. And besides, we have a budget for it. We also point out that they should be informed of a gender, diversity, equal treatment and non-discrimination perspective and a co-responsibility perspective. And demographic policies must be placed at the centre of the Basque policy agenda. In this we fully agree, with the perspective also of centrality of the process of emancipation of young people so that they do not have to delay their life project for lack of opportunities. We must be able to change the trend with these policies. For the Basque Government, child support policies are two fundamental pillars of social policies. We've been taking steps in the last few years in the right direction. We have had the IV Family Support Plan since 2018 that has already proposed a paradigm shift. And in that pact, one of the commitments was to prevent poverty as well as to ensure a minimum number of economic resources for families of children. This is the road map for progress. An evaluation of this pact has already been initiated in two working groups: one of a technical and one of a political nature. The conclusions have not yet been transmitted. As the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Beatriz Artolazabal, pointed out on 3 June, our model has a dual character, consisting of direct aid and tax deductions. Despite the fact that Euskadi has been an example of family aid policy in the State, the Councilwoman said that we must move towards more universal aid. This requires a review, in order to improve the model for this more universal aid to reach all families with sons and daughters, advancing, if necessary, and adapting tax policies and public spending policies, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the pact. The aim is also to strengthen such economic protection for families in situations of greater vulnerability. An inter-agency working group has been established under the Tax Coordination Body on 24 October 2019. And taking into account also the conclusions of this working group, the lehendakari raised and announced the aid of 200 euros per month to families with children under 0 to 3 years, which will be implemented in the year 2023. And later, the effects of this measure will have to be analysed in order to continue progressively implementing them in the terms considered more appropriate. We will soon be counting on a Basque strategy of the demographic challenge. We also have measures within the framework of the system... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...more convenient. We will soon be counting on a Basque strategy of the demographic challenge. We also have measures within the framework of the income guarantee system. We are now immersed in the modification of the income guarantee system, where significant improvements are made, especially in the amounts received in income guarantee income in families with children. We also have other measures in other areas of public policy such as education, such as the free use of haurreskolas up to the age of three. Measures have also been taken during the pandemic for the most vulnerable. And there is an extension of support to families for the hiring of persons for the care of children - which was also agreed on the other day - from 3 to 14 years. Because we can't look at everything in an isolated way. It says "no, it is that this aid is insufficient to eliminate poverty. RGI alone is insufficient." But what needs to be looked at is the model as a whole. Study the model as a whole, review the model as a whole to decide together what changes have to be made in the most appropriate way. It is not logical to take isolated measures. If we are now waiting for the conclusions of the various working groups of the evaluation of the plan to be reached. With those, with all those conclusions, with all those revisions, we will look at what measures are most appropriate. That is why we are going to support our amendment as a whole, because it already states that in the Basque Strategy 2030 for the demographic challenge the Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government to implement this methodology of evaluation and progression of all the measures envisaged to consolidate precisely this ecosystem of emancipation of young people. And then he also points out that within deploying a series of tools with the elaboration from 2023 of annual follow-up memories of the degree of compliance with the forecasts and actions envisaged in the strategy, and that they are brought to this House in the first quarter of the following year analyzed. And then it also establishes mid-term evaluations for 2025, 2028, and a final evaluation in the first quarter of 2031. And then a comprehensive command board with a system of monitoring and evaluation indicators that allows us to assess that demographic assessment and to take the measures that we consider most appropriate. We, of course, believe that there is a timetable here, there are commitments. And that's what we're going to support. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u36	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Today we are discussing together a motion by Euskal Herria Bildu and a non-law proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos. Motions are technically a consequence of interpellation, and this is formally the case. But I would dare say that this motion is the result of a full monograph. One has the feeling that what is meant by this initiative is that it becomes the back party of the debate we had on 18 May. During this whole meeting, the Parliament agreed to 74 resolutions. Resolution 74 to face demographic challenge and receive 2030 strategy. Many of them were adopted by the protection of the groups in opposition, and by the protection of different groups. And I think it's important to remark: that many resolutions were admitted by the protection of different groups. These resolutions were not only related to the rate of birth; for, as we said that day, the demographic challenge is much more than the birth rate. And that's why we accepted the fertility of so many other young resolutions, industry, migration, the population of the country, or those which had the basis of generations, among many others. Bath bath, beasts batan izan ez zitekeen moduan, jaiotze assessors buruz ere aritu ginen egun hartan, arduratzen gaia dellako eta wool eskatzen digulako. And in one of those resolutions, namely number 46, the lehendakari announced a measure consisting of a universal direct aid of EUR 200 per son or daughter, covering the period from 0 to 3 years, which would be launched in January 2023. A concrete measure which, as it was announced that day, does not seek to solve by itself a situation - the low birth rate and the difficulty we find in dealing with the generational relief - which is manifesting itself in an increasingly remarkable way in Euskadi, which is not alien to the social context of the European Union. And it is that this, that of low birth, is a situation that puts at risk the welfare system that we enjoy today, which has cost us so much to build and whose survival is not guaranteed much less. The aim of this measure is, together with others, to create an ecosystem that guarantees the living conditions necessary for Basque families to have the number of children they want, and that they can do so at the appropriate time. And on that day, beyond this direct assistance, the President announced several other measures. The freeness of the children, the uninterested loans for the young, and the establishment of a demographic view, or the consideration of it when changes are made in the regulation. And all these measures were not allowed by any chance, nor even by this direct aid. And that wasn't a measure that the President decided that morning. "E President No se levantó de la cata y dijo "vamos a ver qué soprendo hoy en el Parlamento..." [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... Eta hori ez zen izan lehendakariak goiz hartan bertan erabaki zuen neurori bat. The lehendakari did not get up from bed, and said, "Let's see what I'm surprised with today in Parliament." Those things don't work that way. This aid, which also requires a substantial, substantial budget allocation, is not approved overnight. It is a measure to which the Government has been working for a long time and which is the result of the commitment, planning, study and work of the Government in this area. You don't have to. It's a story that's been recorded in the government program and it's been established as a popular challenge just now. And, further, it must be said that this measure is the measure that the UNICEF shows or recommends in the program for the first thousand days. We can't forget that. And just as the Government does not want this measure alone to solve an unfavorable situation, a problem we have, we believe it is unreasonable for opposition groups to seek an assessment of whether the policies of supporting families or supporting the birth of the Government are good or not, fair or not, or regressive or not, on the basis of a single measure. You can't take the part and try to analyze the whole thing. Because, if we study the public policy package of the Basque Government, we can openly say that they are not regressive, they are not. We can say absolutely convinced that these are measures that take into account people on low incomes and people in vulnerable situations. Euskadi has always been a reference to guaranteeing the rights of these people. And nothing indicates that this has ceased to be so. In fact, the introduction of universal aid only reinforces this idea or, rather, this reality, which is that in Euskadi low-income people in vulnerable situations are guaranteed their rights. And, as I said to you, we must look at the government's set of public policies, policies that you know and that I dare say that you will not dare to regress. These are measures that relate to very different areas, such as education, health, employment, housing, culture and a long time. All these measures are introduced and income elements are taken into account. It has been said, but I have a eupscal system: it is a system that combines direct aids and Subtractions. And that's what you're asking me to change today. And, to be honest, it seems to us very conspicuous. It seems to us that both of them, both of them and of those direct aids, are highly esteemed by the euscal society. And the reality is that after this monographic, Eukadin there will be more resources to prevent the low birth rate. The Basque Family will have more resources after that plune to have children. It is impossible to deny that there are more rights from that day forward, because new measures were announced, and that what had hitherto existed had not been touched. And what we're trying to do today is something else: change the model from top to bottom, delete one thing to introduce another. That it is legitimate, but that it has nothing to do with what the Government has done. You intend to take one side to put on the other. And what the Government has done has been to keep what was on one side and add measures on the other. I believe that the accounts are clear and reflect the will of the Government and the commitment of the Government in this regard. However - and I think this is something that we all share - it is a sign of the Government's identity to demand itself ever more, not to fall into self-congratulation and seek constant improvement. And that is reflected in Resolution No. 46, which introduces or establishes a sentence that I am going to read textually. And he talks about "Working from a Staged Evaluation and Progression Perspective." And this is the commitment of the Government: to constantly assess the effectiveness of the measures, to make concrete commitments with regard to accountability and, if deemed appropriate and whenever possible, to extend or improve such aid. And that is what we have included in our amendment. An amendment which we consider ambitious, which sets time limits for the Government and which in no case closes the door to the extension or improvement of the aid or of the measures laid down. And finally, in conclusion, I would like to make a reflection. Because while we are used to this happening more often than would be recommended, it is still an anomaly that political groups with representation in other institutions bring to this Parliament proposals or proposals that are not within the competence of this House. Because what is proposed today in the initiatives of the proposing groups, but also in the amendment of the People's Party-Citizens, is a tax reform that eliminates deductions, in the case of the People's Party a tax reform as a whole. And you know, because you know, that this is not the forum to address that debate, that this is not the competence of this House. And you, the proposing groups of both initiatives, also the amending group, have to a greater or lesser extent representation in other institutions where it is appropriate to face that debate. I invite you to do so. And I also invite you to explain to the Basque families that what you want to do is eliminate deductions by son and daughter. Until then, until that time, the Government will continue to work. And it will continue to do so from a constant assessment perspective, trying to improve and expand the protection system for Basque families. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Díez. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, the Mist... He mustn't speak. Passing on the answers, Madame Kortja's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u39	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. What do you mean, that this isn't a forum to talk about this subject? How can you say that? How can it be said, that something just planned on this strategy, one of the moments of strength which is planned, when our tax is capable of deciding around our taxes? And why should not the forum be expressly stated here, when it is asked to agree with the other organs which are competitive? I'm crazy about it. And, on the other hand, of these just and universal helps, is not this forum to speak? After the president put a concrete measure here? I don't know. It's an excuse, but... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and of these universals, is it not this forum to speak? After the president put a concrete measure here? I don't know. It's an excuse, but I think... Act 35 of the Family Plan states that the tax body, in collaboration with those responsible for these matters, but also with the Basque Government, should prepare this review. Develop this review, which the Government has in its hands, and which has leaked it into a medium of communication, or has escaped from its hands. Why is this interpelation coming? Well, for what I said before. Because we have to do a shared exercise to prepare for the future. Because we have to put on some floors that are common, because we have a huge challenge in our hands. And because we have a very specific situation right now. We have a situation where birth rates are in history. We have a situation where one of the oldest of Europe is as much of our young men's fertility. We have a situation where children are a factor of poverty. And we have a situation where poverty is inherited in this country. So this forum, of course, is a forum to talk about all this. And you, for your own sake, speak of all these things in strategy, and it is another thing that you want to play ostriches and talk about other matters. Nik irakuriko difuut Familia Planean agertzen den gauzatxo bat: "It is urgent to move forward in a universal system that changes the system of deductions and aids per son and daughter, in order to favor all families with children alike". Come on, Euskal Herria Bildu doesn't say that either, huh? The Fourth Family Plan says so. Zuen plan bat, zuen konpromiso bat, éla familia itunean era agertzen zen konpromisoa. I think it's sometimes hard to defend a few postures, but the proposition we've brought here today is a very rational proposition and very realistic. Because he's very realistic, according to the data we've been describing, this delay between 18 years of family support, at least until 18 years. And for this purpose, to establish a legend, because, unless we have the ability to represent this chronomogram in a ten-year strategy, we have a chance not to define a passage. And we can't wait for your evaluations because we've been waiting for you since 2018. And this people can no longer wait, because the decisions they don't take are condemned to weakness for so many generations. And it's ridiculous to ask them to fulfill their engagements, and it's an engagement made in our middle-way. And bringing in a new system is not a proposition or caprice of the Basque Country, a commitment even recorded on the planet for protecting families. And it's ridiculous and realistic because when some systems have patches, when we've identified those patches, and when we know that they're really out of this system, they're out of this system, because they're helping families, and they're out of the system, and they're out of the question for the sake of paying these things, and they have a degregressive system from the tax history of the prosecutors, and they don't make confessions, because they're out of them, to direct that rable and realist. And that's all you ask for in a ten-year strategy. The long look is required, the courage is required, and the engagement is required. Because otherwise, this strategy you're dealing with now will have little credibility. And I think that he was a rabbi and a realist here together with Podemos, but also recommended by the absent agents, in a ten-year strategy that we have brought him, ten years ago, and putting that into the government strategy, because that's the way they stand in front of them. You can't ask people to have children and then you don't care about that request. I think it's a shame to have such a short glance, and to turn my back on the opportunity for such a consensuation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together Podemus Ankerz, Mrs. Gonz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u41	It has not given me time to comment on the amendments before, and I wanted to start with the PP-Citizens amendment. I would like to comment to Mrs Garrido that we see that many of the points in her amendment are open to actions that could lead to the universalisation of the benefit but without ending. We don't think she's ambitious. And just as we would agree with you on your fifth point, in which you point out a timetable for making aid of 200 euros extendable to other ages, the rest we do not see. And, Mrs. Sanchez, yes. I wish this was a race with EH Bildu, but in this case it is true that EH Bildu and we at this point in the race are equal. Me, what I'd like is for this race to have a lot more people. I don't know where you are at this; I don't know who's at the exit point. But it would be very good because, coming together to the goal that we pursue with this initiative, it would give us much more social justice in Euskadi, we would have many lower rates of child poverty, and that would be a goal, a goal of a career. He said they were isolated measures that we proposed. What we propose are not isolated measures. I believe that they have not understood me well, because we are proposing a global review. Joseba said, "It's just, they're two different models." It's just, we're proposing, on the one hand... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] - global. Joseba said, "They're two different models." We are proposing, on the one hand, a change in the tax system, a revision of the tax system and, on the other hand, that of direct aid. And I told him in my exhibition: they are two models that have to converge, which cannot be addressed separately. He commented on the GIR, the improvement, well, of the improvement of the amounts of complements, because those that have been established so far, those that have been and those that arise do not guarantee that families with more than two sons or daughters do not fall into severe poverty. And looking at the resolutions of the demographic challenge strategy, what we raised today was already put forward at the time. And in addition, they said in Save the Children's last report, the one they took out this week, they said a maxim, that what is not measured cannot be improved. It is true that we have to evaluate, of course we have to evaluate, but we have to know what is being evaluated and what perspective is being assessed. Reports like Save The Children point out these measures very clearly, and we do not intend to remove one place to put in another, we intend to redistribute wealth. And yes, yes, it is that they are different models, that we pose one thing and the government is doing another, and you rule in the three parliaments. And the tax review has been raised over and over again, another issue is who looks the other way. And well, it is not surprising that those who do not review tax systems, or do not want to review them, do not believe either in the potential to sustain public systems, the systems that guarantee us services to upbringing, care, health, education, and these are supported through tax reforms. And I would like to end by thanking Mrs Kortajarena, well, because all the joint work we have done to achieve the compromise amendment we have done today. Also Joseba for his willingness to the agreement, although it could not have been. Well, we're... We have very different concepts and models, in this case, I would almost say that they are opposed, but, well, the tone is always appreciated in order to be able to discuss the issues. And I want to end up recognizing organizations like Save the Children, Unicef or Hirukide, those on the children's platform, for the data, for the reports and for the proposals that they send us and that they send us to all the groups in this House, not only do they send us to the left. The case is who listens to them and who doesn't, and they're the ones who work on the street. So, without further ado, a thank you from here to those organizations, and we will bring the debate to this House as many times as it seems relevant to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u43	Thank you. Yes, Mrs González, I too would like to join in thanking the work of all these associations, organizations with which in this case the People-Citizens Group has been working and the People's Group has been working for many years, and I can assure you that many proposals, which have been brought to this House, are based on the suggestions that have been made to us by them. Mr Díaz said that the measures are the result of commitment and planning. Not bad, because in view of the results it seems the opposite, it seems that this government does not plan or have any commitment, because I say to it, the strategy announced in the investiture plenary of 2016, of that legislature, of the lehendakari Urkullu, has not yet materialized. We do not yet have that strategy, that strategy that has to contemplate those absolutely essential measures to address the problems that we have of birth, of emancipation of our young people, that therefore the birth rates are as they are, and the young people are late in having children in Basque. As for tax reform, look, I was going to tell you: tax reform of the PP equals tax reduction. That is the tax reform of the PP, that is what we are doing in all the autonomous communities. Look, yesterday Mrs. Ayuso announced, as I know she doesn't have much sympathy for you, but, well, you don't have to have her, because the Madriders already have her, who are the ones who have to vote for her. But it is that it announced a new tax rebate, a new tax rebate precisely to help the birth, reconciliation and families of Madrid. I tell you... I know that they usually look south, especially when they go on vacation, but look a little bit more, especially in Madrid. I'm telling you, even if you don't vote for her, look at Mrs. Ayuso a little bit. And it is that our tax reform is to lower taxes, in this case the IRPF to middle and low families, who are having a bad time, deflate the rate and increase the deductions. We of course bet on the deductions, and of course we urge... I am not going to tell you when you urge the Government of Spain, I mean, that you are also in the tax coordination body, you too can, well, govern the three parliaments, what more do you want me to say to you, if you have it very easy, if from Sabin Etxea something is said and all three parliaments are put in order immediately and become firm. I therefore believe that if you would have the will, because you have money, I have spoken to you, more than 20% of the three outlaws. With that collection you could make the effort to lower, which is not much effort, because the money has it. It's not about the citizen taking his money, putting it in a bag and saying, well, I'll give it to you. And I: no, no. It is that the model of the People's Party is completely different, that the citizen has the money in his pocket and that he spends it. We are not in favour of a subsidy policy, a policy that protects the citizen, no, no, let the citizen, lower his taxes and let the money be in his pockets, and let him spend whatever he wants. And if they have family, if they have children, they can have that money to take their children forward. Look, and besides, they have money, and they have enough money, but... Because look, apart from the 1.5 billion remaining budget, apart from 20% of the extra revenue... [[27th end of tape) is the beginning of tape.]] ...have enough money, but... Because, look, apart from the 1.5 billion remaining budget, apart from 20% of the extra collection in the first four months of the out-of-town seats, which is 700 million euros. See if things could not be done with 700 million euros, with the economic concert and having, as you say, the deputies the fiscal powers. It is that more than that, if we go to the execution of the specific items of what we are talking about, it is that they have not executed the money. But, look, ordinary aid, implementation of the 2021 budget, support for the recruitment of childcare workers, 67 %. In extraordinary aid, from 3 to 14 years, which you announced the other day, 13%. But if these aids are not spent, how can they not be more ambitious in these and other aids? The implementation rates for the various programmes show that not all aid is implemented. As far as the amendment is concerned, of course, it is that you, apart from knowing that you have to evaluate - that you spend the day evaluating, it is that in all your amendments you tell us about evaluating, to follow... - it is that, apart from evaluating, you have to propose; above all, you have to propose with what is falling, as is the case with Basque citizens, with the difficulties that we have here to get the children out of the way, with the birth rates that we have, with the ageing of the population and, above all, when we have money. And finally, and finally, I believe that we have ended with our proposals, Mrs González: lowering taxes, deflating tariffs, increasing deductions, increasing existing aid, prolonging it over time. I don't know, it can't be done anymore. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u45	Well, I think I've been very clear in my first intervention. I believe that a commitment was made to draw up that working paper, which was the basis for the elaboration of the Basque demographic challenge strategy, which is about to be completed this month, and all this has been done. I also pointed out in my first speech all the different measures, which we have in the area of support for families. And of course we are now immersed in a review of the current model. This study is being carried out, working groups are working to reach, to reach conclusions, and from these conclusions, of course, when an evaluation is carried out, steps are to be taken. It is not only evaluated to find out where we are and that is where the evaluation work has ended; when one thing is evaluated, a series of measures are taken to improve precisely the model with which it is counted, because if the evaluation is not used absolutely for nothing. And we do not refuse those revisions, Mrs Kortajarena, as you said in your question. We refuse that you when you brought it you said you have to do this in two months, you have to do this in six months. Yes, when you brought that first initiative, you said: no, it's not that you refused the review. But, of course, the Basque population challenge strategy itself already reflects the need to carry out such assessments. We in our initiative have set that timetable for the measures and evaluations that need to be adapted. And of course, in a demographic challenge strategy, such assessments must be carried out. And what cannot be said is: this measure alone - which is what I have said - is insufficient; the other measure, or the GIR, says the experts that it is insufficient to get out of poverty. Other experts have also told us that GIR is not the only thing within the system. It is one of the possibilities for access to aid within our system, it is a subjective right that is also supplemented by a number of other things: with social emergency aid, with supplementary housing provision, with minimum living income, with aid for conciliation, with aid that we have been discussing throughout this debate. And it's a whole, it's a sum of many things the model. And all this model - in addition to the different tax deductions - is being studied, of course, in order to ensure that the whole model serves to have a much more universal character, so that families with sons and daughters can be reached much better and achieve much better the goal we want to achieve. That is why we are going to support our initiative, our amendment as a whole, because, as I said, a number of measures will come out of all these revisions. Perhaps when you look at all these conclusions, you can see that when it is considered necessary, it can be extended from the age of three. But right now what needs to be done is the whole study globally, which is what is being done. And besides, it's about to end all that. The logical thing is: let us have those conclusions, let us have the measures that are considered to have to be taken, and then let us see whether we like them or not, but we are not asking for isolated measures without taking into account the whole package, which is being taken into account right now. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u46	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know where to start... Mrs. Garrido, I'll start with you. I'm going to tell you, to put it mildly, I don't think it was entirely true what you said about the government doing nothing, because... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I will start with you, I will tell you, to put it mildly, I think it has not been entirely true what you have said with regard to the fact that the Government has done nothing, because you know that we have a plan, four working papers, which have been passed by the Governing Council - which are public - and which we have even discussed in this House. Therefore, the Government's commitment is there. He also said that the Government's measures were ineffective. They were announced on 18 May in the monographic plenary, and some of them will not enter into force until January 2023. They have therefore been so effective that they have not yet entered into force. And then, I have to recognise him - to put it mildly too - a certain disappointment with his attitude, because we are asking the government to bring in a plan in October 2020. And we did it by the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and its group, and there you were for the agreement. Then, in the monograph, you showed some insistence and persistence to remember, even because you are the group that will most agree. So, there he was. But the agreement is much more than negotiating, signing and voting together. The agreement also requires some stability and lasting over time. I have today missed a calling for agreement that would have given it - I believe - more packaging to its negotiating position in recent months or even in recent years. With regard to Elkarrekin Podemos, I think he said that I spoke of two different models - if I'm not mistaken - I didn't say that, did I? In fact, I don't even think so. I believe that the problem of not reaching agreement has been sincerely that we have approached the debate or initiative from different perspectives. You guys... We have preferred to talk at all times about a perspective of evaluation and progression, to constantly evaluate in stages for that assessment, to see how far the measures could be improved and that has been our position. And yours, I sincerely believe, has been to set very very ambitious targets for later, in the event that there is any breach, to have arguments to blame the government that did not meet it. And I honestly have to say that I think that was the opposition. However, with regard to the initiative, I do believe that there has been a spirit of agreement and it has not been possible, but because we started from different perspectives, not because we had two different models. And Mrs Kortja's. Well, of course, this is the aphorium to talk about social help, but I didn't deny it when I first took part in it. What I'm saying is this isn't a forum to lead a tax reform or a tax reform. This is not the forum, this forum is aldudias, and the jurisdiction of the imposts in this country is the policy of the commonwealth; sometimes it seems that we only believe our groups in the structure of this people, and that is not so. And if that's the case and you believe it, too, you must show it in the organization structure of this country. And (octeen? ), it is a matter of coordination, assistance, and harmony. But well. I also have to make a confession, an almost personal confession, and I think it would be much easier for me to approach the debate with you if we had two models that were very confrontational or were very clear what their model is and that ours is in the antipodes. But I don't think that's what's happening, honestly, we and we have, or I personally have a disconcerting position on what your position is with regard to birth, because on the one hand you accuse the government and the groups that we support the government and certain public policies to promote birth that persist in patriarchal roles that commercialize women. And on the other hand, you... Your main proposal to deal with the... For the demographic challenge it was a direct aid, which it does is to promote birth and which is also quantified at 650 million euros. Therefore, therefore, I do not think that there are those two different social models that I have already said in the monograph and I insist today. There are no two different models ideologically. I think there are two models. A model, that of the Government, which calculates, plans, studies, quantifies and has the responsibility to square accounts. And there is another model, that of the opposition, which has no obligation to square accounts, which has no responsibility, which does not have the need to quantify its proposals, because it does not have the obligation after rendering responsibility to Basque citizens. On the other hand, as I have said, as I have told Mrs. Gonzále, I think we have had the decency to arrive at the agreements. It was not possible, but as I said to him: I do not believe that two contrary examples have been the foundation of this argument; but I think we have taken it from different perspectives, or arrived at this argument, and that this was the only question we have ever had to make for an agreement. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Diez. End of discussion, we'll vote. I'll collect EH and we'll go together with the middle-directional correction signed by Podemos-Azier. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opposites, 47; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u49	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u50	So he wouldn't accept. Next we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 27; the Abstations 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u51	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the CORA CORA CENTERO, about the measures which ought to be taken to save energy. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, you have the word to present and defend the initiative. [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...yours is for introducing and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u52	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to all. The motion of today comes after an interpelation almost two weeks ago. And we talked about the emergency savings. We, on our side, attempted to point out the insurgent context we now live in, to make our mark on our own in a state of impeccability. And we were focusing on the various measures the European Committee has placed on the table, or how we should follow it. The chairman of the Tapia Department told us a few things. That this question is not a new problem; that many things have been made in the sphere of efficiency in the last decades. He also told us that the biggest problem was not in buildings and savings that could be there, but in industry and transport and so on. He also told us that the measures to push the technology were less efficient or less efficient; who is to move the brakes in industry, and so on, disdaining them in some way. And he told us too that there was no supply problem. I think it was some exercise "dionde vas, manzanas traigo." I mean, we talked about the emergency emergency savings, and he told us about the general public policies. And somehow, what you read between the lines, I think that's clear at least at that moment, there's nothing to think about when you're going to save the energy, or at least at that moment there wasn't any intention of making plans about it. But I think that on the other hand, −, the news is going very fast, I think we're going into a bigger emergency crisis. The chute is growing, and bad news is gathering almost every day... or every day, is it not? It's growing urgent, it's said for saving. And the other day, I explained a little, and the International Energy Agency also says that what we've got is much deeper than the survival crisis in the '70s. Then there was oil today, gas and electricity in a crisis. And then, if there were real problems on the table, there were real geolitic problems, but there are even geologic problems and climate problems. I think today... Juxutu today, at the moment when we are still in the spring, and in several parts of the Basque Country, above 40 degrees, there must be no more mention of climate change or emergency. I think it's already said a lot, and every day we've got Rusia, the Ucrania... we have news every day on news, and there is no further account. Baina badaude baita was a geologicoak root. Eta hemen pixka beat gelditu nahi due, ze horiek azaldu behar say iruditzen zait. Eta... It gives me the feeling that in the case of oil, in particular, it is more a problem of geology than of geopolitics. I say this because, among other news that we have had the last ten days, we have had the news that for the third consecutive month, OPEC, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has not reached those increases in production quotas that they had promised to, well, detente, let's say, the market. And this is because there's a geological problem. There are 40 oil-producing countries that are already in productive decline. And those who are not, those who are not or are not yet, are recognizing one after another who do not have sufficient idle capacity. idle capacity, i.e. the ability to increase at will the production or extraction and placing on the oil market at a given time. This is causing a spiral, which is a long-distance trend if you want. That on the one hand, the increase in demand that has occurred after the... of the low pandemic, has brought about an increase in demand, a tension in prices, and an inability to marry supply and demand at reasonable prices. And this is leading to Brent's barrel, for example, being traded today at $120 a barrel. And with the ratio, the change of the euro and the dollar having a strong dollar right now, it's causing us to be paying more than two euros and all the fuels, and it's eating all the savings that... or all subsidies that had been raised as measures by the State Government. This tension, and this price tension, what is already causing in many countries and is also beginning to provoke here, is a destruction of demand. And the destruction of demand is the one that will cause after there is a price drop, turning this into a cyclical spiral that will be very problematic in the future. In fact, traders, major traders or negotiators of (oil?), they're warning you now. We have serious problems with diesel globally; problems with the increase in demand that may occur this summer, as there are every summer. And there are countries that are already having a really bad time, for example Sri Lanka, Argentina's rationings and so on. It's not just the petroler, of course. The bad news is gathering around the gas too. And here, well, there are some geological problems, but the geolitic are more remarkable. And what's happening with Russia's supply is the harpsichord. I said also, Poland, Bulgaria, Finland, Holland, Russia's gas has been left out, but we've had news in the last few days and the news has been no good at all. For Russia in Nord Stream Gasduto, let us say the fatest gasduct in Europe, and the supply of Germany has brought down a downpour of gas rate 40%, and Italy has also lowered its rate of 15%. Eta honekin will beat, sheath... how it is from... to skinny dog, everything is fleas, there was last week an explosion, a gender export LNG terminal in the United States, which has caused the export capacity - which was not much, but well - that of the United States has dropped. And all of this cocktail has caused the main European gas price reference hub, the Dutch TTF, to be... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... The United States is down. And all this cocktail has caused yesterday, the main European gas price reference hub, the Dutch TTF, to have a sudden rise of 24 % in the price of gas, putting again over 120 euros the megawatt. Eta honek gas hornidurarekin zerikusia dauka, bathing electricityren preciouskin era zerikusia dauka. Ze, of course, there is a dance and a grabbing of metaneros almost on the fly, let's say, who are slipping through the seas of the world in search of the best bidder, at a time when everyone needs it; and more Europe, provoked by this conflict and the attempt to disengage from Russian gas. And the last example we have in Pakistan, where there are very important power cuts, because they cannot afford the gas supplies that are being costed worldwide. And not only that, but, later on, it has caused the star measure of the state government, which was to put a stop to the price of gas, by raising the price so much and having to pay compensation as well, because it has caused those discounts promised in electricity to remain at nothing, has it not? On the other hand, it should be pointed out that until the marginalist pricing system is changed, there will not be a structural solution to the electricity problem. This is the context. I'm sorry, I know I give a lot of bad news or bad news together, but it's obvious that we have to take measures in front of this situation, that we have to take a lot of structural measures. We have many things to do in a long middle term, i.e. we have to take different structural measures to save power, efficiency, electricity, etc., etc., etc. And what is clear is also that the transcendental transition, i.e. this transition to the retractables, must be accelerated. I say this, and it's important because there are other things that are being a fossilist temptation, and I think it's not long ago, the general director of the United Nations, Antionius Guterres, has said that we should not take advantage of this twisted state to encourage the fossilist initiatives again; around us, as is done by Josu Jon Im. Ez da hori Bakarrik, Europar Batasunak bereggintza berritu dele repower edo berpotentziatu energetikoki Europar Batasuna, éta hor, well, hainbat kontu mahai heurean jarri ditu, ezta? Among other things, a whole strategy to accelerate renewable energies, mainly focused on solar photovoltaics. But it also warns us that we have to go to a much faster disconnection than we are going from gas in our energy supplies, and above all in the heat issue. But also, in short time, we must take measures to ensure our supplies. I mean, we have to guarantee security for the next few months, and that is why fossil resources come into existence, and the European Union will make an attempt to combine purchases, won't it? And here also beware of false solutions or false promises. Egun hauetan baga ere, we just heard one of Enagas' top managers say he's going to fill the seagull, he's going to fill the seagull and then, well, the supply in Euskadi is guaranteed in this case. I, by numbering these, do not seem to me as encouraging news either, considering that the seagull, the underground storage that we have in front of Bermeo, has a capacity of 980 million cubic meters of gas, and that in the state gas system - because there is nothing that is a Basque gas system, because that does not exist, goes to the state gas system - means a gas storage for 11 days, for 11 days. If we take into account that it is normally 50 %, it would be five additional days. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, In any case, the European Union tells us that together with all this drama, it is necessary that there should be contrivances and measures and plannings to save energy. That's why he's brought out a communication, saving power, called SaveAre Angelgy, which encourages several initiatives. Here it is. He makes several proposals along with the International Power Organization. I mean, be careful with thermostats, make more teleworks, push public transports and so on. And with a little need and very little expense, this could lead to the fact that if we all became European, we would continue this plan, the saving of 5%. It doesn't seem physically, but it's important. We think we need to plan all this. Some have begun long ago before these last problems have come. But, well, countries that predict problems do planning things. Germany, Austria, etc., have their own plans of contact, the possibility of interruption, the sobre todo, de gas de eros país como Japón, etcétera. There puesto una series de mecanismos de femalegencia marcha. Y en esos statusos, en eses statusos. On 18 May the European Commission drew up the REPowerEU, Save Energy plan, all this I have just told you. And things I understand can be done more or less quickly. In less than a week the Government of the State in Madrid approves a plan in the Council of Ministers. A plan that is complementary to the usual energy efficiency plans, which set out a series of measures, savings and energy efficiency measures, on the rationalization of the turn-off times of the air conditioning facilities, the strengthening of the remote working mode, the promotion of public transport for public employees, etc., etc. Oh yes, gauzak egin daitezke, eta egin daitezke azkar, gure ustez. Kasu honetan egia da spainiar Gobernuak mugatua egin du, Administrationari lotutako premiazko aurrezpen planginza bat egin du. Guk uste dugu orokortu egin beharko litzatekeela. Hau dau, adibidez, beastlako neurori bat hartuz, Germaniako Gobernuak egin duen bezala, adibidez. If public transport is to be promoted, a transport bonus is set at EUR 9 per month throughout Germany to encourage people to leave the car behind, which is one of the measures called for by the European Commission. These kinds of measures I think are important, they are to be imitated. In this case, the Government of Spain has not launched either. And the Basque government was not there until now. You were expected, of course, you were expected, because we're going a lot... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... In this case, the Government of Spain has not put on a stake either. And the Basque government was not there until now. He was expected, of course, to be expected, because we all go a lot, but, of course, he was not. Esan behar dugu baga ere guk honen inguruan edo hau guzti hau ikusita, crying bat eskatzen genuela, plan bat eskatzen genuela: hau da, kontingentzia planak eta premiaz neuroriak aurrezteko plan bat Egypt. Eta, well, kosta zaigu, egia da kostatzen zaigula, bath, well, borondate ona egon da, éta, Azkenean, erdibideko bat lortu dugu. Eta erdibideko horretan lortu dugu, gutxienez, eskatzea Jaurlaritzari, which plans a battery of measures aimed at rapid energy saving as soon as possible. That's what we think we need to plan. We would have liked the commitment to make a concrete plan rather than to plan in general, but, well, so far we have been able to get there, as is usually said. Eta, agian, pentsa daiteke % 5 - Europar Batasunak esan dueen bezala, ezta−, neurri hauek guztiak martxan jarrita, % 5 aurreztea gauza txikia her. Edo, inkluso, pentsa daiteke %1 aurreztea lortuko bagenu gauza txiki izango litzatekeela. I want to put a little perspective on this about the savings and the importance it has, okay? That is, if we can save with the measures that we put in place 1% - 1%, huh?; not a 5, but a 1 % – the equivalent of that, at that 1 %, would be the installation of 500 megawatts in photovoltaic solar. That means that in order to achieve the same, with 1% savings, or installing photovoltaic plates, we would have to install a million and a half photovoltaic plates; to see what volumes we are talking about. So I think he deserves it. It's very important, really, that everyone should take a serious step, because otherwise the circumstances of injustice come. And wrong happens in situations, and with prices...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u54	Yes, right away. It's only by precepts that we get savings to come. And these weeks we're having good examples. Tomorrow the Committee on the Rules of Procedure meets to make a good budget increase for this Parliament of EUR 600,000 because energy is going to cost us more. I mean, it's better than budgeting more, saving more, or trying at least. And not like it's happening at the UPV, which by not being able to face energy prices we're pulling directly into cuts, closing classrooms, removing microwaves so students can't heat up food, etc., etc. Asikae, I think it's worth it. I thank you for your will to make a treaty, and I'll see if we'll set something decent in motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u55	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonsso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u56	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. Mr Otero, you must be acknowledged the ability to start in Sri Lanka and end up in the microwaves of the UPV. It's just, you're a literary man who's losing this Basque culture. What did the Ukraine war show us? That the energy system of Europe, together with that, is a fragile economy based on the mass of fossil fuel consumption. But let us not mistake his message: The invasion is only the finger pointing at the moon. The crisis of supplies, the limitation of natural resources, is something above us long before Putin decided his cruelty. And I'm sure that Russian troops will be a threat to leaving the Ukrain country after leaving it. War enabled us to see more clearly our weakness. In this context, it is evident that a rapid reaction is necessary in all respects. First of all, we need to speed up the pace. We've marked the destination for a long time. However, it's getting more and more obvious that we're failing in the rhythm. The invasion of Ukraine reminded us that there is not a single minute to lose. Secondly, We cannot forget the fundamental principle of climate justice: We have to speed up the pace, yes, but no one stays behind and leans on it. Mythical transition must also be social transition. As I say, secondly, we cannot lose sight of the basic principle of climate justice: we must speed up, yes, but ensure that no one is left behind. The energy transition must also be a social transition. And thirdly, firmness and decision. This is not the time to hesitate or look back in search of solutions. Any historian could assure us that no time past was better. That only works as a comfort in bad literature. To think today that old alternatives like gas can be a solution for the present is not to understand or not to want to understand what is happening in front of our own noses. Fortunately, the 7/2021 laws on climate change, represented by the assistance of most of the groups which are now represented, represent the will of the Spanish and Basque society to pass that page. The law makes a strong wager for new sources which respect pure, lasting energy, and respect environment. That's the bet of the social majority, and that's the bet of the Basque Socialists. But let's go on. The invasion of Ukraine forced the Spanish Government to accept the order of 258/2022 at the Council of the Ministers of March 29th, to respond to the economic and social effects of the Ukranine War: a command that regulates the necessity of making a plan of the measurements of the neurotic and saving energy from the attention of the refugees. I would like to stress that this plan was conditioned by the need for consensus in the Social Dialogue Bureau, because our commitment to dialogue and social consultation permeates... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I would like to stress that this plan was conditional on the need for consensus in the Social Dialogue Bureau, because our commitment to dialogue and social consultation permeates and will permeate each and every one of our policies. As a result of that order, Order 466/2022 was adopted on 24 May, approving the Plan of Measures for Savings and Energy Efficiency, to which the previous speaker has already referred. An order that reflects the need to continue to drive energy transition and climate change policies. Policies that Pedro Sánchez's government has been deploying since the first minute he arrived in La Moncloa. Because there's no other way, because you can't shake your pulse at times as decisive as these, because it's not the time to stay paralyzed. But the current situation, as I have said, also requires urgent measures that can respond to the great challenge facing us in the face of the resource shortage crisis. Impact measures should be promoted to reduce energy consumption in an imminent manner. Energy savings and efficiency must be promoted. On the basis of the fact that public administrations must take on a leading role, they must play a tractor role, as a drag on civil society. Public administrations have a key role to play in the area of social responsibility. And so we Socialists have understood. And so we have promoted it in the General Administration of the State with concrete and agreed measures with the workers. Measures ranging from the rationalization of the use of buildings, the establishment of lighting and shutdown schedules of installations, with the optimisation of the use of these buildings, with the control of temperature conditions, the massive deployment of self-consumption facilities, the control of outdoor lighting, the use of consumables, procurement measures prioritizing with scrupulous respect to the law purchases with better energy certification or the reinforcement of remote work, with full guarantee of face-to-face attention to citizens. In the same way, the Department of Environment and Hydraulic Works of the Gipuzkoa Diputation, which, under the leadership of its socialist deputy José Ignacio Asensio, last Tuesday presented in Brussels the projects that are being promoted in the historical territory under the premises of the REPower Plan of the European Union. A programme that aims to combine the necessary advance of savings and efficiency with the fight against energy exclusion. A program that aims to provide tools and knowledge to citizens for real empowerment on energy issues, promoting information and training campaigns on consumption and tariff data, savings and efficiency, renewable energy for self-consumption, rehabilitation, sustainable mobility or local energy communities. A strategy based on the firm principle that energy is a basic asset, which seeks to boost the growth of renewable and decentralized production, the spread of a new energy culture, the democratization of the energy system with the participation of new actors and access to zero-kilometre and 100% renewable energy. A strategy incardinated, as I say, in the principles of the European Union's REPower Plan, whose best example is that of the energy community driven by the Zumárraga City Council. An example that will have spread this year to reach another 25 energy communities in Gipuzkoa, able to supply electricity to more than 4,000 families. This is, as I say, the stamp and commitment that we socialists leave in the institutions that we govern. I would like to conclude by making a final reference to the binding commitment of social responsibility of public administrations and, with them, of those which we have or have had the honour to lead these institutions. We face the need for a profound change in the economic, social and cultural model. Perhaps the deepest and shortest change this humanity has experienced. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this does not range from short-term measures to respond to specific questions. We must tell citizens that we will never return to those times of wine and roses, of excessive consumption of energy and resources. A past model that has mortgaged our present and is possibly also mortgaged our future. Citizenship looks at us and seeks us and our answers to the thousand questions that arise in the face of such a challenge. All surveys speak of a feeling of fear and widespread impotence among them. Our obligation is to show that in this way we are united, each with its own nuances, but sharing a common goal. Therefore, it is necessary to put public administrations leading this change, driving all the necessary policies and as a practical example of the way we have to go. I would like to end by thanking Mr Grajales of the Basque Nationalist Party and Mr Otero de Euskal Herria Bildu. It has been a few days of very interesting semantic debate. But in the end we have reached an agreement that improves the initial initiative. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u58	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief physician, good noon to all. The fact that Russia invaded Ukraine has caused serious consequences. In the first place, of course, the Ukrainian suffer cruel conditions, but also in ours, Europe has revealed your ancient dependence on Russia. Eta, honen aurrean, Europar Batasunak zer egin du? Ba, Otero jaunak aipatu dokumentuak athera, egoerari aurre egitek, edo egoerari aurre egitien saiatzeko behintzat. Batetik, hor dago REPowerEU Plana, bere izenak dioen bezala, plan to put an end to the European Union's dependence on Russian fossil fuels, or plan to quickly reduce dependence on Russian fossil fuels and make rapid progress in the ecological transition. And what do you say there? Well, we need to save energy, we need to specialize the supply, we need to combine purchases in Europe, and we need to help those who are weaker in the face of this situation. And besides that, Europe has to make a special effort... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... that we must help those who are in it all. And besides this, Europe has to make a special effort in order to establish recurrent energy. That's why the main goal goes from 40 to 45% looking at 2030 years. And for this purpose, it encourages plans, such as, to double the solar energy from here to 2030, a new impulse to increase solar energy in the roofs, to double the rate of its bombs, to facilitate the rights of important projects, the policy, the initiative over the hydrogen, even around the biometanium, to reduce the use of fossil fuels in industry and vehicles. And all this, of course, in order to be able to handle investments and all that. And the consequence of all this, or the result of this document, is that Mr. Others also... (Seifentown? comm. The object of this is different from that which matches the previous one. This communication is directed to all of us. It begins with the governments of the States, it is directed to each of us by the national government, by the council, and by the administration of any place. And what do we want there? Well, to make a special effort to save energy; that is to say, logrur un mouth myrgetico inmediato a través de eloquences personales. Dokumentuak berak honako hau said: "In view of the current geopolitical and market situation, we cannot afford to wait for the important structural energy efficiency measures to be implemented. It is essential to seek immediate opportunities to reduce energy consumption for the duration of the current crisis. In the short term, most of these opportunities would come from voluntary elections, some of which could also be extended in the medium and long term if they lead to changes in habits. These elections should focus mainly on where the greatest savings in gas and oil consumption can be achieved. Natural gas accounts for the largest share of heating, accounting for about 42% of the energy used for space heating in the residential and domestic sectors. Oil is the next most important fossil fuel for heating, with 14%. While coal accounts for about 3%. Therefore, the key sectors for significant short-term savings are heating in households and services, as well as transport and mobility with some additional short-term potential in industrial sectors. Measures to immediately reduce gas consumption are particularly important, as any savings that can be made at an early stage will help to fill storage, thereby reducing supply risks during the winter season. At the same time, it is also important to save electricity, as gas, oil and coal are also used for electricity generation. These options can reduce energy demand, which can help to reduce imports of fossil fuels and avoid a more severe shortage and, consequently, the imposition of restrictive measures with all their economic and social consequences. Therefore, the Commission says the types of support actions that can be adapted can be divided on one side into information actions and on the other in incentives and support measures. The main advantage of the change driven by this type of measure is that its impact on energy consumption is immediate, that no initial or very small investment is required, and that only a small change of habits is necessary with a zero or very limited effect on well-being, as only those who want and can make such decisions will do so. These measures will mainly be voluntary and will depend on good will and effective communication to energy users, on the most effective measures they can take." And when all this is explained, what is it that we're asking you to thank me for with the deal we've made today? Well, let's get three specific things straight. First, let him examine these documents and our jurisdictions, so as to include in his own planning what may be structural. Secondly, that after examination, considering our jurisdictions, he may take the necessary measures to save energy as soon as possible. And thirdly, let him help him take measures to save other institutions and citizens. All this, of course, considering that human resources, money, and time can't end up like a shell. He's heard of inspiration, he's got to catch you at work. Or that on the way to success the 10th is inspiration and the rest of the 90s is the sweat, the work. And even if we go on this way, even if we have to speed up the trial today, this is the time to say that this doesn't surprise us or start from scratch. He's done a great job in the last 40 years of saving and saving from an emergency point of view. And this is to consider and applaud, because what you've got is not a bad one. Because for the last 40 years, they've taken the measurements that have been taken around the use of Eucadin effigy, we consume 50% less energy today. Or in another way, if we hadn't taken the measures to be more efficient in these 40 years, we'd consume 50% more energy. Two. The tendency of the crude internal producto or PIB has been stripped of the tendency to consumption of energy in recent years. That is, though the raw internal product has gone up, its rate of power consumption has been downhill. Three. For the last four years, Eukadin 640 million dollars have been invested in my senior efficiency. Four. The aid from EVE above 60 million dollars in small, medium, and large industry is still in force to boost efficiency in industrial processes. Five. Even in the housing, to re-establish them, in the last two years, we'll put 62 million dollars from EVE in the last two years. ... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... To push. Five. Even in the housing, in order to re-establish them, in the last two years, EVE has been installed 62 million euros available to the citizens. Six. To be aware of the need for efficiency of the citizen, the US campaigns are known to all of us, and I'm not going to sing. And finally, as we all know, it's the best energy that doesn't consume, like the one that doesn't produce the best trash, right? So we're grateful to Basque Energy Organization. My deepest thanks to Mr. Otero and Alonso for the agreement we've made. It is also a good thing that one unites to one who unites, if one unites. And let's keep working on this deal, and all of us, we're going to make a just gesurgic transition. Like this town of ours, always forward and always high. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Basque Team Representative Ciudadanos, Miss Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u60	Well, look, Mr Otero, we do not propose an amendment to your initiative, because we were starting from the idea that, in the end, what contingency or savings we do here in Euskadi, in the consumption of our industry or our homes, in the end, has a little impact on what you have said. Because, in the end, who distributes the energy to us and as much as we save here, in the end it is a national competence to... In addition, the Spanish Electricity Network, which is a company involved by the Government of Spain, is the one that has the obligation to supply all points of the peninsula with energy. Good. Now we want to make a contingency plan because planning for the energy transition to renewable and sustainable energy is proving that it has not been well planned, that there is a failure. We have stopped using more stable energy sources to move towards a necessary but poorly planned transition. We sell or bet that gas goes to that transition energy, or that we don't produce gas, that we are sold to the geopolitical situation that is currently so straining the gas market internationally and we may stop having that gas supply. Apart from the geological problem to which you mentioned at the beginning, whereby producers, the crude producing countries, are not able to increase the production to which they have committed themselves. And then, look at the failure. It turns out that even the measure of the Iberian exception to adjust the gas price for combined cycle plants has not led to the long-awaited drop in the energy price that we citizens needed. However, you have signed a transaction with PNV and PSE in order to add to this mentioned above, which is management - as Mr Alonso said - optimisation of resources. I like it. Aim. I don't know if Mr. Grajales mentioned it anyway. Optimize resources. Sure. That's what we have to do from the administrations: optimize resources. And it seems that so far this kind of reflection has not been done, that we had to stop spending so much and optimize resources, think where we could save. This is what we have to do, what administrations always have to do: think about where they should stop spending, because it is unnecessary and because it does not lead to an improvement in the lives of citizens. What generates me a little more complication is this of making a practical guide to tell citizens to stop wasting energy, for example, in their homes. No, no, Here we rarely use air conditioning, at least in Gipuzkoa, I suppose in Alava they use more air conditioning, but in Gipuzkoa little. What we use is heating in winter. So, I think about: what are we going to tell the citizens? Two blankets? Now, it can also be, that I do it at home, I tell the kids: put on your socks that is very expensive energy. It's true. I say it at home, and so it is. It's hard for all of us to pay the bills for light. But what are we going to do with the industries? We're gonna tell them that... because in the plan that you have listed it was ultimately about making the industry optimize the use of energy. For there are intensive industries that cannot, cannot, that rely on, that are sold to energy, especially to remain productive. So, what's going on? What are we going to do, compromise the productivity of Basque companies to the detriment of the rest of companies in the rest of Spain? Well, I really don't think it's a safe bet. But, as long as it is a guide, a study, so that we can make it result in an energy saving, inciting something voluntary so that people become aware that we do not have to waste energy, that we have to use public transport, that we have to go from administrations to clean energies and that we have to use all the self-consumption we can, facilitating the measures of self-consumption for families and for public administrations. Then we will agree on that compromise that has come, but as long as we know and recognize the failure that has existed at national level in planning an energy transition to renewable and clean energy that is so necessary but badly planned because it turns out that we have relied on energy, on sources of energy that we do not produce and on which we are mostly not producers and need them, for the time being, in this transition. When the ideal moment comes when we only consume energies... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... in which we are not mostly producers and need them, for the time being, in this transition. When the ideal time comes when we only consume renewable and green energy, we will not have that problem. We have the problem now, which we do not have to leave anyone behind, and we have the problem of energy prices that are unattainable for many families at this time of year. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Today we have an initiative that seems very important to us, because indeed, as has been pointed out in the first intervention by the proposer, by Mr Otero, we are experiencing very complex moments, and of course, there is nothing to suggest that the situation will improve in the coming times. We are experiencing an inflationary crisis due basically to an increase in the prices of fossil fuels, and in turn it is also increased by the invasion of Ukraine, and basically, this reflects two limits with which we are living as a society right now and also in economic terms. On the one hand, a limit that has also been mentioned geologically, and I think it is not an element that can be overlooked and not highlighted to speak exclusively of geopolitics, obviously I think it is more important the limits that the planet currently offers us in geological terms regarding the situation that we are living in relation to fossil fuels, than the political situation. But, well it is true that the invasion of Ukraine has further increased the problem, and also what has increased the situation is currently the situation that (?) in global terms, which is basically a world of blocks. We have lived for decades in a globalized economy, where basically one tries to be in that kind of value chain in the production of materials by certain multinational companies, and what the administrations were doing was basically trying to be in that value chain, generating an ecosystem that would attract certain companies to the territory, in this case multinationals, so that one of two: they would extract the material into the territory, produce in the territory, or be investigated in the territory, or, if necessary, it would be distributed in the territory, and try to generate that enabling ecosystem framework for those multinationals to access and settle in the territories. This has, of course, led to a very deep weakness, and to a very important dependence on the part of countries. And in this case, because basically, for example, a dependency to the extent that the supply chain of certain priority elements is cut, whether they are material for production, in this case, fossil resources, what happens is that what is presented on the table is an almost total dependence of Euskadi, in this case, and also to a large extent, but not so much, of the State and also of Europe. Basically, we need 90% of the energy we consume in Euskadi, and one of the elements that it has (?)Nourished in energy terms to our country, it has been gas. And our country has not advanced to what seemed to be evidence for decades, which was the geological limit, and on the other hand, that this situation of globalized economy at some point, if there was a disruption in supply chains, we would see ourselves heavily dependent and dependent on the need for our own energy that we do not have, because I insist, we depend on 90% of the external energy. And, in this sense, something that was seen to come because it has not been planned, and it has not been planned because, I insist, the bet has been in Euskadi for the gas for a long time. In fact, the other day in the interpellation Mrs Tapia put on the table as a value the public company Bahía de Bizkaia Gas, which for the moment, at the moment, liquefied natural gas we depend almost 40% on Russian gas. I do not know how that transition to a model that is not so dependent on gas in general and gas in particular, Russian gas will be formulated. And the committee has indeed drawn up a series of guidelines not so much on responding to the lack of supply, but rather on reducing demand, because in the short term, in fact, supply, lack of supply, addressing the lack of supply is going to be difficult for us to do so, because access to renewable energy should be enhanced, and that requires time, and they are structural measures. We basically need to take care of the lack of... forgiveness, the reduction of demand. In this respect, the European Commission has put forward a series of guidelines which should be complied with by the administrations. And in this sense, well, since the proposal has come here, or Mr Otero's proposal has arrived here, that well, I disagree with Mr Alonso that the transactional improves it. We, of course, believe that the original was much more ambitious than the transactional, I understand that in order not to come out of the groups that support the Government, that in fact, it is much less ambitious than the transactional, because they have had to reach an agreement. But come on, of course we don't think it's better the transactional, basically because it set times, the element of time has been eliminated. On the other hand, there is no longer the reference plan, which would, say, implement economic resources in the development of these measures. And, on the other hand, a manual for the development of good practices in savings is established. I insist, we agree, in fact, that we are going to vote in favour of the compromise, but, well, it seemed to us, of course, much more ambitious than the original one. It is true that some elements have been removed, fortunately, such as basically that publication, which in any case Mr Grajales has done in his speech in relation to the Basque Energy Agency. That has been eliminated. But, in any case, we do believe that taking into account the challenges we are facing, the common position of most parliamentary groups towards what is a challenge for our country in reducing demand, because it is important. And, indeed, we hope that in the Basque Government's bid on structural elements... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in the reduction of demand, because it is important. And, indeed, we hope that in the Basque Government's commitment to structural elements, such as a change of perspective on mobility, on the electrification of housing and on mobility itself, and also decarbonisation, not only linked to hydrogen, we believe that these elements should also be taken into account by the Basque Government in the development of structural changes, which also requires our dependence at such important times on energy and resources, in this case fossils from the outside. For our part, I insist, we will vote in favour of the compromise initiative. We believe that structural reforms need to be addressed, because everything points out that the price of the barrel will continue to rise in the coming months. In fact, to the extent that the barrel price is above $115 the inflation crisis will continue to fire. And on the other hand, we also believe that even if the price of megawattage is to be lowered, if the megawattage does not fall by 150 euros, the inflationary crisis will hardly also be reduced. Moreover, we are going to go to an even more problematic situation, taking into account the rise in interest rates in the coming months, already announced by European bodies, and that already in the United States it is a reality. And it's going to increase, we believe, or it's going to probably bring us into an economic slowdown. Moreover, we do not believe that the rise in interest rates will respond to the inflation crisis we are currently experiencing. We are therefore going to vote as a parliamentary group in favour of the compromise, because we believe that we do need saving measures in energy consumption, which is basically what we can do in the short term. But it is also necessary to start with structural reforms in Euskadi, not only within the state framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer time, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u64	Thank you. I want to make four tips or shades. Yes, I agree with you, Mr. Soto. I don't think the initiative meant anything, even if it doesn't fix everything. But it is true that the originals were more accountable because they demanded the origin of a plan, and now they demand a plan. We believe that the original proposition was really more effective. But, well, it's a kind of negotiation that, in a way, you have to go down a little bit to get along. And I think, anyway, as you said, he's a kind of transaction to vote for. Larrea andreari, it's a little erratic the intervention, it seems to me. First because he said one thing that I think is completely countercurrent to today. Savings have little impact, i.e. the measures that can be taken have little impact. I have already made a comparison of what only 1 % of savings, or 5 % of savings, means for our energy system, which is the best of the expectations of the measures that could be taken, and I think it is no less. And then he's mixed up with different things. He said that the productivity of the Basque industry could be compromised by some measures. And I believe that if something happens today with this context of deorbited energy prices, it is precisely that the competitiveness and productivity of the Basque industry is completely in question. So, I haven't finished understanding a little what I meant. What seems to me to have become clearer is that criticism that you made especially to the Spanish Government, they always use a little to give it a little candle if they can to the Spanish Government. And they said that the energy policy that has been made has had a lot to do with the dependence on fossil fuels that are now giving so many problems and so on. And I ran out for a moment, I don't know if you've seen me, because I have a graphic - I'm going to give it to you - that I think is important. And it's the photovoltaic installation chart of the Spanish state for the last 12 years, okay?, since 2010.I don't know if you can see it from there, the same on the screen looks better. Years 2011, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. You see there's a stagnation there, about 4,000 solar megawatts installed? And then there's a practically exponential increase. Do you know what this stagnation responds to between 2011 and 2018? That there was the PP in the government, and that there was the sun tax. You're the ones with the sun tax. And are you going to come and say now that some approaches are being made that make it too dependent on fossil fuels when you have been the first and main obstacle to the deployment of renewables? Well, it's a little contradictory, at least. Well, and let's see, Mr Alonso, that you don't even have to go down and defend the Ministry of Teresa Rivera who, well, with all your faults, who also has them, because in this respect, of course, I believe that things are clear. Eta gero loving nahi nuen, roll txarrik gabe, bathe eske aipatu da Everen publishing hourly reports. Grazia egiten dit, ze zuk aipatu duzu if there had not been the EVE and its energy efficiency measures, we would be getting 50% more energy. I think it's a fallacious argument. Not because the trend scenario of energy consumption, according to forecasts, would have been in the best scenarios of being consuming 50% more energy, that may be true. The issue is to attribute everything that has happened to the EVE, as if the 2008 crisis had not existed, the drop in energy consumption strictly linked to the crisis would not have existed or the drop in energy consumption - which was brutal, as large as the fall in GDP, of about 10% in energy consumption - would have had nothing to do with it. Unless we blame the Basque Energy Agency for the 2008 crisis and the pandemic. I don't think that's the intention. Therefore, to say that it is by the EVE that 50% less energy is being consumed today, because I believe it is to attribute a sardine or to anchor the ascua to a sardine that is not yours. That does not remove beast gauza batzuetan Energiaren Euskal Erakundeak gauza asko egin ditu eta eraginkortasunaren inguruan era bai. In fact, atzo EVEREN ofizinetan, Bulegoetan egon nintzen, eta hau ikusi nuen. Beitu, Egunean egunek erebilera energy eraginkorrerako gida... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...even around. I was in the offices yesterday at the EVE killings, and I saw this. Look at the guide for the effective energy of the day. The guide exists. And it's not the first, there's another one a few years back. But it's a habit, isn't it? And it happens especially in the Basque Organization of energy, right? Greenhouse gas emissions data for 2020 have just been released. And we've had the biggest drop in history, 12% less greenhouse gas emissions. That all analysts and analysts with a minimum qualification, of course, have attributed to the drop in energy consumption, the economic stoppage, the pandemic, etc. And they say he'll come up later. Everybody. Even Ihobe. Also Alexander Boto, director of Ihobe, has attributed it to that. But there is one person who is not, who is the director of the Basque Energy Agency, who has attributed it, to what?, to the energy efficiency policies of the Basque Energy Agency. I say, "Is it also going to be attributed to the Basque Energy Agency that there has been a 12% drop in greenhouse gases associated with the pandemic?". Man, it's kind of like passing out, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u65	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u66	O sera, señores, it is that EVE has made things, but, well, let us suppose that they are either success or success among us all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u67	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Papers. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u68	Thank you very much, President. Well, we will have to be doing so in the Government of Spain when even EH Bildu has no choice but to acknowledge the great work being done by the Vice-President, Mrs Ribera. Mrs. Larrea. Obviously, I too am forced to answer. I don't have the ability EH Bildu people have to make A-3s and graphs and so on. But are you going to come and tell us, not only to us Socialists, but to Spanish citizens in general, that there is bad planning in energy policies? You? Not only do you refer to the graph that Mr Otero has taught you, but you are the sun tax, you are the ones who increased VAT on electricity and you are the ones who put everything, everything, all kinds of obstacles. Because if ever, ever, the famous oligarchies of which so much Elkarrekin speaks We can, if ever knew that those were the winds in favor, were when you, the People's Party, ruled. You say too, Mrs. Larrea, that... Well, aside from a very rare question about savings and skills, I don't know exactly what the competitive framework has to do with energy saving. He says, "What can we tell our companies?". Well, we can tell you that if you save and invest in energy efficiency, your costs are going to fall and, of course, your competitiveness and your ability to compete in the market is going to be much higher. I don't think it's anything scandalous to say to them either. On the other hand, you said, "And what can we say to the citizens?". Well, I can think of, uh, as I've been writing them while they were coming to my head. We can tell you that we live in complex times. We can tell you that resources are not eternal, that resources are running out. We can tell you that our hyperconsumption model is unsustainable. We can tell you that not all of us have consumed in the same way and that, therefore, not all of us have the same responsibilities. We can tell you that those who have consumed the most and have more responsibilities will have to pay. We will also be able to tell you that all the groups we are represented in this House understand the problem and we have a unanimity or, at least, a certain union as regards the solution of them and the seriousness of the challenge. We can also tell you that we will ensure that the principle of social justice and climate justice prevails and permeates each and every one of the policies we will develop. And we can tell him we're not gonna let anyone, nobody, stay behind. Look at all the things that can be said to the citizenry. Because the only thing you can't do to citizens is treat them like they're boys or girls. No, ma'am. We must tell them and make clear to them the dimension of the problem, which is not small. I'm not going to Sri Lanka, but, of course, it's not small. As for Podemos. Man, I don't know... As I see it, it improves the initiative. Of course, we tabled an amendment and were able to reach a compromise, and that in itself also shows the..., well, the will we had agreed. Other groups did not even submit amendments. So you don't have much more to say about it either. And then, there is a question that is also mere semantic. And maybe I, I don't know, haven't had time to look in the dictionary. But the word "plan" disappears. Look, I don't know, but let's look at the dictionary, because I think planning is a verb that makes a direct link to a noun and planning is making it fair. So, well, I don't know where the word "plan" has disappeared. Planning is making a plan. And that is what the Government is urged to do. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u70	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good thing we had a deal, huh? Anyway, I wasn't planning on going out, but I've seen a little bit of obligation. I will have to answer Mrs Larrea, although, if I tell her the truth, I don't know if it's because of the heat, but I barely understood what she was trying to tell us. You didn't want to get into controversy, but you wanted to make a fool of yourself. You have to tell the kids to put on their socks, their blankets... Well, listen, but this is... I don't know. You don't follow the advice of the EVE, you don't save energy, you haven't heard the radio for years, you don't know how important it is to save energy, to lower the thermostat, that kind of thing? You come out here like you want to ridicule what others do and I don't know what it looks like. He has started to talk about the industry, that if through our amendment we are forcing the Basque industry to be less competitive than the Spanish one. But have you read the first, the second and the resulting? Have you read them? Where did you find the word industry? Because I don't see her anywhere. Anyway. Mr. Soto. Euskadi is more dependent... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... Anyway. Mr Soto, Euskadi is more dependent than Spain, because he needs more energy from outside. From outside, from where? Iberian system is one. It's one. That we have less production, of course, and less land... And perhaps less support from the opposition. Don't you? If you can only put solar energy on the roofs - that is the top of Elkarrekin We can at this moment in what implies ecological transition - because we have it complicated. In any case, they were saying here about the initial, there has been an initial and there has been an amendment. And I told them before, that inspiration catches us working, that things come out when there's 10% inspiration and 90% perspiration. And to date, in the great agreements that are being forged in this house around the energy transition, it will be because you are pure, you are pristine and you are wonderful and everyone makes it wonderful less here, the only ones that sit outside are you. So, I don't want to get into polemics. I would like to invite you to strive, to sweat and to participate in the great agreements, because you usually pass a lot of profile, normally. Because here it's very easy to talk about... Do you have a degree in Hidden Sciences? "This was coming. Of course, everyone knew that Russia was going to invade Ukraine, everyone knew that the energy transition was wrong. But where, in Euskadi alone? But, I insist, have you read this? What we are doing is, in some way, transposing, transferring a plan, a communication from all over the European Union, which is also the best driver of the energy transition across planet Earth. Here, if you've got us something in Albis, I don't want to tell you how you got the Germans who depended on the Russians, the Bulgarians or the Czechs or the others. No, it's Euskadi the only one who hasn't been able to do the homework, and you've scored a report. Anyway, the data I've given is who they are. In some cases, Mr Otero, indeed, we have not done everything right. We have not done everything right, but what would happen to this country if the Basque Energy Agency had not existed? What mix would we be talking about now energy? Savings, efficiency, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. In any case, it is true that the achievements of the EVE, of the Basque Government in the last 40 years are not only our merit, they are shared with companies, they are shared with citizens. Unfortunately, so far, what we have not been able to share is with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u71	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u72	Well, I wasn't going out. [[Barres]] - No, no, no, But it's just that I've had no choice. I've had no choice. Mr. Alonso, do I have to tell you – and this is skins to the sea, eh – that you left Spain at the edge of the rescue? [[Barres]] Sure, sure, sure. It is that all the policies carried out by Mr Rajoy, when you took over the government, recovered from an economic crisis that then led you to be able to invest in solar plates or many other things. Mr. Grajales, look, I never ridicule, ever. You know me, and I'm never gonna ridicule anyone. I don't know if you've ever raised that situation. I will never be ridiculed by anyone or anything you say in this Parliament. It is neither my form nor my style, and I believe that I have shown it every time I have intervened in this Parliament. I can, from time to time, make a joke, but I will never ridicule any Member of Parliament. And of course, it has left the most vulnerable behind at some point in time, in this transition in which we have sold ourselves to gas. Yeah. What happened? Recently we were debating, Mr Otero, we were discussing the energy communities, the communities of neighbours with community boilers, which have gone from paying a fixed of 1,000 euros a year to paying one of 60,000. Of course we've put them aside. Sure. And it has been necessary to bring an initiative to this Parliament so that those families that are mostly Alaves families that have community boilers here in Álava in official protective housing... They've seen each other, they've been left out. I'm not making anything up. Really, that is, you can try to ridicule, make me see that I have an unrelated speech, but I tell the truth, and really, I don't want to mess with anyone or offend anyone. I just say my perception of things and what I see. I fully understand that Mr Otero dominates the world of energies and I will never, for the time being, master the prices of energy per day as you do. And it is true that I listen to you very carefully, even sometimes admiration, about how you master the subject of energy. But I will never be ridiculed by any of the Members who intervene here. I will make my guesses about situations and say what I think about current governments. And above all there is one thing we have to be encouraged by, which is going to vote in favour of a transaction that can be good to make us aware of the energy saving that has to be taken in families. That's it, huh. No more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u74	Thank you, Madam President. I do not think I have raised in my speech that the only problems with energy dependence are in Euskadi. Under no circumstances do I think I have raised such a point. Of... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... My intervention is that the only problems with energy dependence are in Euskadi. Under no circumstances do I think I have raised such a point. In fact, I have even come to talk about the consequences of a globalized economy, and what it implies with regard to the weaknesses that this implies in the disruptions in supply chains, and I believe that it encompasses the whole of the whole of the world, worth redundancy. I mean, not just Euskadi, but Euskadi, too, obviously. And yes, as far as the production of renewable energy, clean energy, has been concerned, there has been a lack of commitment on the part of the Basque Government over the years, but all I need to do is observe which public enterprises have constituted the Basque Government over the last decades, one, to promote hydrocarbons, and the other, precisely to promote gas, gas extraction, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to bring gas to and make use of it in the territory. And we should also be aware of the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies in relation precisely to that decree which established that the illegitimate benefits of oligopoly, which are not oligarchs, of oligopoly, a natural oligopoly, on the other hand, taking into account that natural oligopolies are basically when you do business with a necessary good, and in this case, it is so. But, in any case, we do believe that the Basque Government's commitment in recent decades has in no way been to clean energy. That right now we are in a framework where we necessarily have to speed up that transition, yes, and precisely because we have not made that proper planning over time, right now in that accelerated transition is when, in fact, we want to install wind megaplants without any kind of criterion or requirement, and moreover, in command with certain energy oligopoly, yes, and I do not think this is to be profiled. You say: the large country consensus, which, by the way, Mrs Larrea has said now, is a good agreement, it goes in the line of saving, but man, it is not a country agreement that we are not..., in which we are not, moreover, in favour, because I have already raised, we have proposed that we are going to vote in favour of the compromise. And what about (?)"I have registered an amendment", because simply, we were going to vote in favour of the original, but the extent to which we had already determined that we were going to vote in favour of the original, because simply, we did not want to have to add a point and do a certain exercise of partyism by putting an amendment at all, bearing in mind that we were going to vote in favour, because the original proposal seemed appropriate to us, and yes, it was more ambitious, that is our opinion. Of course, it was, given that it set deadlines, deadlines. It is not the same for us to plan, because planning can be to plan the existing measures, to order them, to adapt them accordingly, to be done, that the plans that Mr Otero set out in the original amendment, forgive, in the original initiative, a contingency plan that should probably have economic resources, that surely in the exercise of planning those measures that the EVE can implement, etc., etc., is not incorporated. That is to say, that probably – and we will see it in the coming months – in that exercise of planning the savings measures that the Basque Government is already carrying out, because I believe that is the spirit, basically, of the initiative that you proposed, to continue to do – which is usually the usual thing – in your amendments, probably that is what we see in the exercise of planning the government's actions, that is, to order what is already done. I do not think that any new plan with its own funding is being developed precisely for this, so that is what we wanted to reflect. We do not oppose the existence of a good practice manual on savings, and in fact, that is why we are voting in favour. We do not oppose the fact that there is a better planning exercise for the measures that the Basque Government wants to implement in the economy, but, well, let me be told that it is not so ambitious, or that it is not true that the original initiative was more ambitious, well, I understand that one in the negotiation exercise, we have had to do it on more than one occasion. In the exercise of one's own negotiation one has to give up certain things, and in this case, I understand that Mr Otero has done so, and it does not seem wrong to us, I insist, because we are going to another in favour. And arithmetic is what it is, and it is already, is an exercise in realism, but well, in the end, they do not intend to sell the transaction as if it were a wonderful and country achievement, because it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by EH Collect, Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u76	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Euscal Populara Group-Ciudadus as a parlamentary group-a proposition of hatred against the orientation of sex. Discipline and final resolution. " Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gil, representative of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u77	Thank you, Madam President. And good afternoon to you all, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we bring to the House's attention an initiative that aims to be a wake-up call on the unacceptable situation that is being suffered by part of Basque society due to the resurgence of hate crimes on sexual orientation in Euskadi. I am referring to the current situation of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersexual groups. A situation that is often not given due attention, is ignored, undervalued and sometimes even hidden. And we recorded, we recorded this initiative this week or weeks ago, just the moment when the alleged killer of four men had been arrested in Bilbao, and when the level of concern and alarm and the feeling of insecurity of this group had already reached unacceptable limits. But in order not to disturb a debate that we want to make seriously and honestly, it is appropriate not to confuse the syndrome with the symptoms, because one thing is the underlying situation that this group has been suffering for years now, and another, the news of the current situation that implies the appearance of this alleged serial killer. Among other things, because the investigation, as everyone knows, is still ongoing, and we still do not know exactly the motivation for the murders, not even the scope of the matter. But both issues generate a level of alarm, concern and insecurity in the LGTBI collective, because the increase in hate crime data... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... The matter. But both issues generate a level of alarm, concern and insecurity in the big LGTBI collective, because the increase in hate crime data on sexual orientation is really unacceptable. The data is very clear. On 21 March, the first Vice-Lehendakari of the Basque Government, present here, presented the 2021 Memory Report of the Crime in Euskadi. And according to the data presented to us, the increase in hate crimes in recent years has been very striking, with growth of 263% over 2019, and 115% over 2020. Within this general section, sexual orientation offences have grown even more, 462% since 2019. In that year there were 13 complaints, in 2020 there were 50, and in 2021 there were 73 complaints of crimes against sexual orientation. Thus, news of the actions of this alleged serial killer has occurred within a context, in a scenario in which the LGBTI collective already lived with concern this worrying trend. And it is that on the last two days of last month, the press echoed a UPV investigation into school harassment in which 1,748 adolescents participated, which also brought us some very interesting data: one, that the percentage of victims and cybervictims was significantly higher in the non-heterosexual group. In fact, one in four adolescents belonging to the LGTBI group, 25%, admits to being a victim of bullying in the educational centres of Euskadi, while in the heterosexual population, the average does not reach one in ten. The difference is impressive. The study also shows that as a result of this situation, people LGTBI develop more often symptoms that make psychological intervention necessary, and in particular suffer a higher risk of suicide, to that point the problem comes. In other words, we have in Basque society a very significant increase in hate crimes for sexual orientation, and in Basque school, which is the seedhouse of future society, there is a worrying increase in harassment of non-heterosexual people. It is then perfectly understandable that about this situation that thousands of Basque citizens are living, the news of a serial killer falls like a meteorite and triggers all the alarms. But let's make some history to put this data and this situation in context. Since democracy arrived in Spain, the LGTBI collective has gained visibility and rights, leaving behind the black years of police repression, health stigmatization and religious guilt. And it did so through the claim of rights, visibility, and tireless work that intellectual associations, public figures and political forces did understand the justice of these claims and the historical debt contracted. They are innumerable all of them, and although they deserve immense thanks, I cannot name them all here for lack of time; however, I must not fail to mention Pedro Cerolo for what he meant in these conquests, which they had – and must also be acknowledged – a moment culminating with the approval by the socialist government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero of the Law of Marriage between people of the same sex in June 2005. It is fair to acknowledge this, and we do so without any problem with the same legitimacy that gives us the energy with which we denounce other measures adopted by socialist governments that we considered harmful. Throughout all these years the LGTBI collective has set a great example and has been able to turn the enormous suffering of past times into pride and joy. He has been able to turn the repression suffered into generosity and openness, weakness into strength and resistance and hatred into love. A lot of people have stayed on the road, which we must remember today. The victims of repression, the people who decided to commit suicide, because this world was unbearable to them, those who were affected by their mental health and their family or personal balance, and of course, the victims of AIDS, which decimated an entire generation. The history of the LGTBI collective is the story of a conquest that has cost lives and that we thought it no longer had to turn back; however, the data shows that today we are living in Euskadi a turn of hatred and attacks on the LGTBI collective, both in society and in school. And before this data, our obligation as representatives of the entire Basque society, and also of the LGBTI collective, is to ask us some important questions: why is this happening?, what are we doing wrong or what are we not doing from the public authorities?, why is Basque society suffering a setback in tolerance and respect?, to what extent is this data an indicator of where Basque society is evolving? And if this trend continues, what social scenario arises for us? And in the face of that possible scenario, what can we do, what are we doing, and above all, what are we not doing? The recent study to which I referred earlier indicates that children are not born homophobes, but are modeled by messages received from their family, school and social environment, and that it is therefore necessary to educate about sexual orientation and identity from different contexts, so that children grow in respect for differences in general, and towards sexual diversity in particular. And today we have a good opportunity to invite from here the rest of the institutions and social forces of Euskadi to deepen in this debate with scientific contributions that enlighten us, that help us to understand the root causes of this worrying trend, and that help us to identify the right management lines, because things are not going well. And, as we always say, without a good diagnosis, there will be no good treatment. But we cannot ignore this situation, we have to act. The trend is clear, and if we do not take measures, serious measures, we will go back to dark times when our children will have to hide their identity again in order not to suffer rejection, not to suffer the ghetto, not to suffer the misunderstanding and violence that we already suffer. Now, incomprehension and violence exerted by the new energums, by the new cavemen of narrow mind and by the short lights that seek to impose on us again their world in black and white, caspian suggestions and their rancid lifestyle. They are the ones who get nervous when they hear the acronym LGTBI, those who send their children to the confessional when they tell them how they feel, or those who send them to the terrible and absurd... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... It is those who get nervous when they hear the acronym LGTBI, those who send their children to the confessional when they tell them what they feel or those who send them to the terrible and absurd conversion therapies, it is those who continue to deny others freedom and the right to identity, sometimes to justify the concealment of their own sexual identity behind a ferocious homophobia disguised with imposed attitudes. But they are also the ones who with their unconscious comments and irresponsible attitudes generate a rejection of the LGTBI collective, which is transmitted to some young people and which causes many people to suffer. They must be told, first, that we are not afraid, because we have already gone through those situations, and we no longer expect or need their acceptance. And second, don't be afraid of them, that being LGTBI is not an ideology, nor is it heterosexual. And, third, that we are talking about a question of basic human rights and respect. For this reason, it was now necessary to present this non-legislative proposal, focusing on three main axes, as they have seen. Firstly, the condemnation of all crimes against sexual orientation and all homophobic assaults without palliatives or hot cloths by this Parliament. There'd be more to it. And, of course, our support and solidarity with all LGBTI people and their families who continue to suffer daily physical assaults, insults, contempt or bullying. We therefore call on the Basque Government to make available to these countries all the necessary health and legal resources to help them in these difficult situations. And, on the subject of this, I would also like to take this opportunity to call on the Basque Government from here for a substantial increase in the number of clinical psychologists in public health. Sometimes they are the only effective remedy available to victims. And their number is almost ridiculous and does not allow to pay due attention to them. For example, certain treatments that require an intensity and frequency of visits that cannot be given in public health cannot be affected. The second axis of our initiative calls on the Basque Government to activate new preventive mechanisms in the face of the worrying trend of increasing hate crimes we have talked about. Improving security for the LGTBI collective even in the use of dating computer applications. And the third axis calls on this Parliament to urge the central government to convene, as a matter of urgency, the Commission to follow up on the Plan to Combat Hate Crimes, following the alleged killings in Bilbao, so that it can analyse what happened in Bilbao and link these crimes with homophobic motivation and strengthen police coordination in the face of such crimes. As you know, we have also presented an initiative in the Congress of Deputies in this same direction. But it seems to us that the support of the Basque Parliament would give it more strength. In the face of our initiative, we have seen that the four nationalist groups have jointly signed an amendment which has a single objective: not to support ours, because it says exactly what we have tabled. On this subject we thought we should be a little more serious and not play with this. That is why we will, in principle, support points one and two of the amendment. But I have to admit that I was very surprised at point three, in which they call on the media for greater responsibility and accuse them of pointing out and stigmatizing the LGBTI collective in relation to the news that appeared on the case of the alleged Bilbao assassin. I was very surprised at this point because it is not usual for the parties that support the Government, which supports these media in large part, to make such a direct reproach to them. Because, moreover, I have to admit that I had not observed any inappropriate expression in this regard. But, for that reason, I personally addressed the different spokespersons to ask them directly about the subject and undertook to look more deeply at this news. And I have to say that my team and I have been looking at all this with magnifying glass. And it seems to me that on this occasion the media have had exquisite care and have shown a sensitivity that does not allow them to make any reproach. In addition, we have contacted them to ask them if they had received any complaints from any association. And none of them had received anything. Therefore, I ask you to tell me what news has seemed to you that generates stigma, so that we can study it. In the meantime, as I say, we shall vote no on this third point. I don't know if, maybe, what happened is that there's an excess of sensitivity on the part of someone about this. But the LGTBI collective does not need to be overprotected, but genuinely guarantee the same rights as for everyone. Therefore, we do not need a treatment of the press with euphemisms and half-truths, which we believe would be counterproductive. We prefer truth and visibility, but with objectivity and normality. And I want to end by sending a message to all the LGBTI people who today feel fear again in the streets and in schools and their families. And I want to do it with a phrase of the desired found in the tomb of Saint Paul of Baltimore, attributed to Max Ehrmann. It says: "You are nothing but a creature in the universe. No less than trees and stars. You have the right to be here. And if they have no doubt, the world will unfold before you." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos Anther, the woman of hate, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. It is the origin of this discussion that some of the most painful events have occurred. And in the presence of these, of course, we have shown the greatest reproach of ours, and will declare it. In such cases, when they happen, we believe that it is always necessary for institutions to serve the victims, to pay attention and assistance to all the resources of institutions or to serve the victims. Moreover, he paid immediate attention and immediate assistance, and co-ordinately coordinated, among different services. And from the very first moment psychological help, the help of health, the information of families, of victims, of sufficient information, of aid in legal counsel. This is all that the institutions have to offer to victims and the families of the victims. We also believe that when this happens, and sometimes we have said that it's very important, to know what truth is when a very police and a judicial investigations are given, with respect to the victims... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... When police and judicial investigations are given, to know the truth, they must preserve the deepest respect for the victims. And keeping the greatest respect, he supposes that stigmatization should be disapproved or neglected, and also to abandon moral judgments and such, which may appeal to the receptimation of the victims. It is true that, apart from these general issues, on this particular occasion, it is mandatory to refer to the framework in which this whole debate arises, and it is the upward trend that we have been experiencing for years now in hate crimes directed at people of the LGBTI+ collective. The data has been offered by those who have put forward the initiative, and the data is true that they speak for themselves, the data offered at parliamentary level by the Security Adviser and that were also then ratified and presented, also explained by Professor Landa. And these are data - I will not repeat them, they have already been said - are also data collected from the researches of the police forces. And these same reports also recognize that they are, that they respond to the tip of the iceberg. In other words, many hate attacks remain hidden. So we're facing a problem that's important. The issue is - and was also raised by the proposer - how to deal with the increase in hate crimes, which is also particularly common to LGBTBI+ people. How can we deal with them? Well, we believe that, of course, we need a comprehensive approach that addresses this issue. And in this holistic approach there are several pillars, there are several ways to deal with it, but of course there are some pillars that are basic. The first pillar to which reference has also been made is education. For us, in a context such as the current one, in which the rights conquered - by the way, are being questioned - education is one of the fundamental tools for preventing aggression against the LGTBI+ collective. It has to be an education based on tolerance, respect for diversity and coexistence between different people. And in particular, we also believe in this regard that we urgently need comprehensive sex education. An integral sexual education that reconciles us with our own bodies, that allows us to have healthy and free relationships of any kind of stigmatization by our orientation, sexual or gender identity. This is precisely one of the objectives that we sought to address with the proposed sexual and reproductive rights law that has recently been misinformed by the Government. The second pillar on this issue, to tackle this problem that we have, from the training of all healthcare operators, of course, legal, and that of awareness-raising. Of course, the awareness of the whole of society, through active policies, from the public authorities that fight against stigmatization. And – and here I am separated, I believe, from the intervention that the proposer has made – of course this task too, this need for awareness calls in particular for the media. In their work as guarantors of access to information, they also have a great responsibility to the extent that they generate a public account. And therefore it is very important to demand that the media and communicative treatment of information meet standards of rigour, veracity and, of course, not stigmatization. And frankly, and more specifically, I think it is intolerable to point out a collective, in this case the LGTBI+ community. And yet - and I disagree, and here I am not going to do, I am not going to show you what that news is, but I will send it to you - on this occasion, I believe that there have been messages and news in recent months that have appeared in some media that have contributed precisely to stigmatization. And that is why we have advocated the inclusion of this third point in the joint amendment that we have signed. There are other elements which are important to protect LGTBI+ people's dignity: The investigation, the knowledge of the data, observation measures, etc., etc., etc. But this, what I have done, I thought it particularly necessary to remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u81	Thank you very much, President. Diversity and sexual orientation as well as gender identity is a fundamental right enshrined in the Spanish Constitution in articles 17 and 18: the right to liberty, the right to honour and personal privacy. Unfortunately, even today there is still rejection, hatred, contempt for others in our society, whether by skin color, race, sex, sexual orientation, beliefs or place of birth. Such discrimination constitutes an offence against fundamental rights and must not be tolerated or left unpunished. Today, there are still difficulties in living normally their sexual orientation or gender identity. Gays, lesbians, trans people, bisexuals suffer physical, psychological and symbolic violence because of the mere fact of being, of being. Together with other minorities, this violence takes place for reasons of nature itself, not chosen, which creates great confusion, insecurity and fear in people who suffer from such violence. And of course, for our group, these hate crimes are absolutely rejectable and intolerable in a democratic society that defends real and effective equality within it for all people, be of sexual orientation... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... in a democratic society that defends real and effective equality within it for all people, regardless of sexual orientation. That is why we have come to a joint amendment from the outset, and we have tabled it by my group, the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group with the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. Because we also believed that the joint presentation gave him much more strength, and we all agreed on something as important as condemning and going against these hate crimes for sexual orientation. And not because the proposing group defends the crime of hatred against sexual orientation, that is very clear, it has become very clear within its amendment, and within the defence of its initiative, within the defence of the initiative, within this House. But we did consider that we had to make a number of issues clear together, and we did. And in the first place, we picked up on this strong rejection by the Basque Parliament against the terrorist attacks on LGBTI. Just as we considered it important to express our solidarity with the assaulted LGBTI people and their environment. But we also considered it important, in view of these attacks, that the Basque Government make available to those affected all the necessary resources: psychological, legal, health, information and accompanying in these situations. And of course, we express our concern about the communicative treatment that had been given in recent months, in different news by some media. Because under no circumstances can such news stigmatize LGBTI people, and the responsibility of the media is called upon for future news coverage to avoid marking any collectives. It is true that the original proposal of the proponent party PP-Citizens also condemns these hate crimes against sexual orientation. But we certainly felt that the whole of our amendment was more accurate and more focused. Mr Gil has already pointed out in his statement that he will support points one and two of the joint amendment to the whole presented by all the... by Basque Socialist groups, Basque Nationalists, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. But I do not see any problem either because I support the third, because saying or expressing our concern and the great importance that these media, under no circumstances, in these news can be stigmatised to collectives, I think that absolutely nothing happens to support it. It just has to be like this. And it's not that you try to do anything else, that you don't need anything more than the LGTBI collective. It is this collective or any other collective that should not be stigmatized at any time by the media. And I think that is what is clear in our amendment tabled. The equal treatment and opportunities of LGBTI people must be respected and ensured through the adoption of appropriate, effective and public policies and processes. Public administrations must ensure that sexual and gender-sensitive diversity is respected and taken into account from a cross-cutting perspective in all areas and areas of their competence. And we need to be much more alert at a time when LGBTI groups are experiencing an increase in this harassment and persecution of this population, both at European and global level. Just as we are seeing there are speeches from the far right that encourage homophobia, and that are very dangerous. There is also another problem within this group, which often occurs after these events have occurred. There is a sub-denunciation, because there are various reasons for this sub-denunciation: for fear of further attacks, or for fear of revealing their true sexual status or gender identity, caused by the prejudices, myths or intolerances existing in today's society. It is important that these humiliating and discriminatory behaviours, and that these hate crimes against the LGBTI collective, should be denounced. Because in this way we will be able to know in all its dimension the existing reality, and not only the tip of the iceberg. Within our regulations, which we are currently dealing with, we also wanted to reflect the importance we gave precisely to defending the right to the free development of sexual identity and/or gender, and sexual orientation. And this is reflected as a general principle in article 3.8 of the recent law, the Law 1/2002 of 3 March of the second amendment of the Law on Equality and Women. The preliminary draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBTI persons is currently being processed, which also takes a further step in this direction. And here we are also addressing the second amendment of the Law on Non-Discrimination on the basis of Gender Identity and Recognition of Trans Persons, which, in its eighth chapter, introduces this new chapter, which refers to and establishes the need for the Basque Government, within its competence, to ensure that necessary measures are taken to care for transgender victims of hate crimes in the autonomous police, in the local police of the autonomous community of the country. From my parliamentary group... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... transgender victims of hate crimes in the autonomous police, in the local police of the autonomous community of the country. From my parliamentary group we consider it important that the amendment tabled be supported by the vast majority of the parliamentary groups in this House. And, of course, it would be desirable if in a case or issue like this it was supported by all the groups in the House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u82	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u83	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. We have a proposal today that the PP-Ciudadans bring us to discuss, about the crime of hatred that surrounds the orientation of sex. And our team thinks it's a routine to work on this thing, it's a regular thing. But it is true, too, that this proposition, considering who it is, seems to us a little to stink of portatunism. Nevertheless, it seems to us to be consistent to consider this proposition, and to discuss and reflect about it, about the orientation of sex, because it is true, and because, according to the data the chief physician himself presented and given, it is true that the crimes of hatred have increased, and we should remark on both accounts. For the first thing, the intellectual, the hatred, and L.G.B., is because it has gone up, and this is the case, on the other hand, because of consciousness and the work of motion LGTB. Because of these two factors, crime of hate is being reported and they jump into our public square. In this month, in the tone of the painter's tone, it's best to take possession of the importance of the matter and give it a place worthy of it, because LGTB lives are worth LGTB people. Within the hate crimes section, the security Sailburu Erkoreka presented us with the crimes against sexual orientation. And these have grown by 460% since 2019. There were 13 complaints in 2019, up to 50 in 2020, and 73 in 2021. The data that from Euskal Herria Bildu we request every month from the Department, we have counted only until May 14 complaints; and we are talking only about the complaints that are officially made at judicial or police headquarters, because we know that all these cases rise exponentially. And I think about the beating of a manda against a young man who ended up in the hospital. And now I think of the young Bilbo who broke his lip. I'm thinking of the Moma disclosure that took place outside the lesbobobobobobobo. I can even imagine the homophobic attacks that have been made in the Zorno. And I also think of the attacks that have been committed by the name of Gaste, Pastia, Irunen, Donostian, Indundi, Galdaon, etc., etc., etc., etc. And all these things seem to us not to be isolated cases, no passa porque sí. Son consecencia del odio que padece el colectiv LGTBI, del odio que padecemos. They are because they are the speech LGTBI+phobic and signaling - also of note - that with the endorsement of some people also represented in different parliamentary seats, speeches disseminated and propaganda by the media that echo, they echo in the press. That they don't cease to be something that accomplices to the aggressions that we finally suffered. They're watching us, they're attacking us, they're beating us and they're killing us. And I also want to say that quite tolerant we are being with the intolerant, because our lives, the LGTB lives, are worth it. And that's why, today too, I want to say that we're not going to take a step back. On top of all this, of course, we need to develop the LGTB integration. We, who are born or choose, are determined by the identity of the sex, or by the necessity of politics for life. As I said at first, it's always a good time to talk about crimes of hate and homophobia. Unfortunately, we are exposed to a dark context. Our opposite attitudes continue to be a daily dish, and there are news that we've been placed in the centre of the phonograph. We cannot deny that the stigmatisation has been given against us, and indeed the attacks we suffer by human LGTB are news. And it's news of that: LGTB attacks. And, yes, we suffer also the terrible stigmatization. And now they make websites click, and they use a concrete stubbornness on the news to find more and more. And, look, Mr. Gil, there were eight murders given in Bilbo, unfortunately. And, it seems, there were murders given by a person using a mobile application. And about this we had often to read the news, often on the news: "el caso del pasino de gaiss," "el solasino de la aperlicaón de homosexuales," "el solasino en series de gaiss." That's the kind of news we've had to read over and over. And we have also learned information related to the privacy of these people. The sexual tendency of the people who have been murdered has been exposed. It's been exposed to what these people used to be sexual relations. Publicized the specific application they've used. And all this with the publicity that we've been through for weeks. We've been told who the victims were. We have been told what their sexual orientation was. We've been told how they contacted. We have been told how a specific app worked. And all this has also been sold to us by fascicles. We have come to receive even, we have come to receive even a doctoral thesis of the so-called Chemsex. Because homosexuals, careful, homosexuals, we have that dangerous way of having sex. Because, of course, heterosexuals, according to the media... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... Because homosexuals, be careful, homosexuals have that dangerous way of having sex. Because, of course, heterosexuals, according to the media, heterosexuals never mix drugs with sex, heterosexuals don't practice orgies, heterosexuals don't horn, heterosexuals don't use liga apps, and heterosexuals can't have any kind of danger when they use such apps. What's up, the LGBT people are the only ones who do this. Eta iruditzen zait honor was "stop already" are behar diogula. Far from reporting, we think... Far from reporting as objectively as possible, and even raising awareness about the subject and using the media for that, it has been done..., sincerely, it has been made pornojournalism, it has been used the (Clickbait?) with morbid and yellowish headlines, LGBT people have been stigmatized and the sexual condition of all these people and all these people has been used when many times in those spaces we have found shelter and even a space of freedom. "Y si esto fuera poco, si esto fuera poco, nos vino el capitulo de la viruela del mono." As I said, we ended up with this series on Netflix of homosexual killers, and another one came to us, another was brought to us by the media: Of the chikong monkey. Again, the same script, this time with pandemy. Besides, trying to spread terror and alarm in the crowd. Watch out, 'Watch out,' we were told here, that homosexuals are coming back to their diseases and will infect us. Be careful, hombres que leaguen con hombres, apestados. Again, the same chapters, the same repeated chapters. And, in all these information, two words could be spoken: Men and gays. Again, pornocution. Once again, the boys that pick up with the boys in the game. And again the stigmatization. And this one, I think, is taking a step to end today. (... ), and to be our nature, we are to accuse those who seek to criminalize and stigmatize. We need to limit political intolerant forces. We have to fight hate speeches and confess the LGBT community. We must create networks in institutions, in villages, and in the streets, to proclaim our rights. Therefore, Mr. Gil, we shall not accept your proposal to-day, we think we have obtained a consensus from the beginning of this legislation, a consensus with zerror, in this other proposition, that you have not respected. But we've got all four other forces, we've agreed, and I'll tell you again that the 90% of this legislature will protect the half-rational correction we've accomplished. Eta esaten duguna bear argia da: Legebiltzar honek gogor arbuiatzen dituela eraso LGTBfobiko guztiak. In addition, we show our solidarity with the assaulted LGBT people and their environment. And we call on the Basque Government to make available to them all psychological, legal, health and other resources. And lastly, because it has finally been given a stigmatisation, we show our concern with the stigmatized attitude of some media during the past few months, and, respecting the liberty of the press, we ask them to be responsible for the attack before the LGTBbubic, to prevent any individual and collective persons being marked. After all, we also protect prevention in the presence of attacks, that education and education are necessary in front of our attacks, that we need self-deference in front of the attacks, and that we can't allow a bit of it in front of all this. In front of all this we need integrated LGBT+ policies, because our lives, our LGBT lives, they're worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. President. Chief physician. Partners. Good morning again. It is undeniable, yes, Mr Gil, that the LGTBI phobia is one of the most widespread forms of hatred in the world. It's... Thus, it is institutionalized in the respective penal codes of more than 70 countries, which include repressive norms of various gender orientations, identities and expressions. All this without forgetting the countries that today still contemplate the possibility of the death penalty for the LGBTBI community, as well as the countless hate crimes that it faces in many countries. And although this may seem a bit distant, the truth is that it is also an increasingly present reality in our environment. And they are aware, without going any further, for example, of all the asylum applications received in the Spanish State motivated by this dramatic situation, which are growing exponentially in recent times and which, unfortunately, the vast majority of them are starved against the cold wall of systematic denial by the competent administrations. It wouldn't be wrong, Mr. Gil, if you as a party of... state-level parties raised your voice on this issue. But at a closer level, also in Basque, in our environment, there are crimes and hate speech on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity, and they also now acquire or come to have institutional rank and become present, unlike in other times, they become present in our institutions. These numbers, indeed, increase year after year, on the one hand, because the citizenry itself is distorting this type of violence, it is identified as such, it is publicly denouncing it. That would be the positive side of this coin. But, on the other hand, because these data, as pointed out, are the tip of the iceberg of discrimination and structural violence that is exercised on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. This is evident, it is true, from the data collected in various reports on hate crimes published in Euskadi by the Basque Network for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Eraberean, by the Department of Security itself or, in Spain, by the Ministry of the Interior, for example. Thank goodness... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... equal treatment and non-discrimination, it was beberan, by the Department of Security itself, or in Spain by the Ministry of the Interior, for example. Luckily, on the 17th of May, 1990, the Supreme Assembly of Health Organizations has taken away homosexuality from the list of mental diseases, many things have changed. We have changed them, I dare say, for the changes have not naturally come: it has been owing to the association of many persons, associations, and institutions. It is evident that steps have been made on the way forward, as well as in the sphere of legislation, in the construction of the figure of society. A proof of the former, for example, is the Euscadian 14/2012, 28 June, not to neglect the transsexuals for their generic identity, and to acknowledge their rights. This law, which we are working for its modification, may we here also have your support, Mr. Gil, which has not hitherto been so. There have been great achievements in this, that sexual variety and the generic should be more strongly rooted in our daily habits of life. But let us not deceive: The LGTBIphobia hasn't disappeared. You're right about that, Mr. Gil, your initiative is right. But I'd say that's where the goodness of your initiative ends, Mr. Gil. Without the slightest acrid, I must tell you that the text presented is full of references and assessments that far from contributing in the fight against LGTBIphobia, reinforce very widespread stereotypes and prejudices. He puts in this initiative a number of alleged murders known recently in Euskadi, which have actually caused social alarm, but whose police and judicial proceedings are under secrecy. And yet you, in an excess that I don't know how to justify, call them "crime against sexual orientation and homophobic aggression." Are you sure? I don't know. What I'm clear is that there was a motive for theft; the rest you say. And it is not just this: that this Parliament should say so, that it should proclaim it solemnly. Look, this, in my opinion, contributes to the stigmatization of people and behaviors of the LGBTI community, as other spokespersons have already mentioned, to which it has certainly contributed the exaggerated and sensationalist informational treatment that some media have given to these facts, and which some media officials have recognized in private as well, the excess. Honestly, I think you've been wrong about your non-law proposal. Possibly, with his best will – I don't know – but we don't like the text he proposes. Well, so obvious is that we don't like anything, that we have agreed on four groups so disparate, that you, I don't know, in an excess of Spanish patriotism have identified as nationalist groups. No, no. We have tabled an amendment because we do not like its text; we do not like anything. Because it adds to a wave that we shouldn't come up with. Because it mixes barbecues and merinas. Because it feeds stigma and prejudice. So it is, that you yourself, when you have read your initiative, have presented a text that did not look like anything, you have been adding as you were reading, you have been adding glosses to it, as adding things that did not exist, and taking weight away from the one you really have, which is the case with Bilbao's murders, which is basically what is based on. All those other references to bullying in schools, to the suffering that... All this does not appear in the operative part of your initiative. All this has been added to justify his position on the whole amendment. That is why we have tabled a joint amendment with Euskal Herria Bildu, the Socialist Group and Elkarrekin Podemos. I believe that the fact that it is a joint amendment, rather than seeking to take it away from it, should have led you to reflect on why four groups are presenting a joint amendment. An amendment that does not say, despite what you have said, what yours says, your text; for nothing. It has nothing to do with your text. Its text is based, basically, on the scandal and the social alarm in relation to the murders being investigated. An amendment that strongly rejects, as we have done on other occasions - also with you - your strong rejection of any LGBTIphobic aggression, which shows your solidarity with LGBTI people and which urges the Government to continue to promote public policies that provide necessary resources, psychological, legal, health..., which your text does not say at all, and that calls on the media to treat that does not contribute to stigmatizing and fueling prejudices around a community, around people. I think it is certain that after that reflection you can now join the text that we are promoting as a whole. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Mythto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Today, the People-Citizens Group presents an initiative against hate crimes motivated by sexual orientation. From Vox, first of all, we want to express our solidarity with the families of the victims, and express our strong rejection of the crimes committed, whether these or others against hate crimes; that goes ahead. In Vox we reject the use of any violent manifestation directed towards anyone, apart from their sexual orientation or ideological thinking. The rule of law has an obligation to protect us from any violent attack that could disrupt the free exercise of our fundamental rights. We have the right to be able to develop our lives in conditions of freedom and security, apart from the sexual condition or ideology that each of us has. No one has the prerogative to restrict our individual freedoms, and even less so through force. Therefore, we firmly believe in the freedom that each person has to freely choose his or her own destiny, without anyone arrogating himself or herself the ability to condition his or her sexual orientation, creed or ideology. We live in a regime of freedoms... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ...without anyone arrogating the ability to condition their sexual orientation, creed or ideology. We live in a regime of freedoms, and it is up to us all to guarantee it for all citizens. With regard to the presentation of the motion by the PP-Citizens, I must confess that it has surprised me for several reasons which I will explain throughout this intervention. First of all, it has surprised us, because during the course of the committee where this matter was dealt with all the political groups, including the People's Party, we agreed that this was a matter that should be treated with discretion, as police investigations are open and the case is under summary secrecy. Something that is under summary secrecy should be respected and, to begin with, not make interested value judgments. Therefore, given that this Parliament is a resonance box and when police investigations are long and complex and subject to secrecy of summary, we cannot understand the motivation behind this initiative before this House. Although the cause may have to be sought on a political opportunity basis, trying to find a holder in a case that precisely needs inspection and to let the police and the judiciary work without added noise. Institutional representatives must be required to have a sense of responsibility for our actions. We find it inappropriate to turn this House into a forum to discuss matters that are more typical of a chronicle of events than parliamentary matters. We should be required as citizens' representatives more than a policy based on quick tweeting or getting an opportunistic headline. I was saying at the beginning of my speech that we were surprised by the presentation of the initiative, and we were surprised because, as I said to you today, the investigation continues and the case is under cover of summary. This means that we do not know the motives for the crimes committed and that it will be the investigation through the reports of forensic psychologists and, finally, the judicial ruling that determine the motive of these murders. Mr Erkoreka, the Security Adviser, expressed this during his appearance in committee. Investigations suggest that, without ruling out that it might have connotations related to the crime of hatred, the main motive is possibly theft; that is, an economic motive. In fact, we are told in reports that there is no bleeding with the victims, something that is common when the murder is carried out with hatred. By the way, Mr Erkoreka, at first, the Ertzaintza also rejected the collaboration of the state security forces and bodies to collaborate in the investigation, far from that collaboration between the state security forces and forces that wanted to sell us in the commission. In fact, it was the National Police itself that was willing to cooperate, and you denied them the collaboration. But it seems to be - returning to what was going on - that the People's-Citizens Coalition, standing as a judge and part of it, have concluded that the motive of these unfortunate acts is a hate crime because of the sexual orientation of the victims. So, no court ruling. The investigations have been loaded with a pen and even anticipated the judgement's opinion in a visionary exercise of law. It seems to us an exercise of political frivolity to skip all the judicial proceedings that are still pending, simply to try to achieve political protagonistism; protagonistism to take the lead in defending the people who are part of this collective, when their political background points to another direction. Ideological transformation, because you appealed to the Constitutional Court homosexual marriage or voted against the elimination of the requirement of medical reports in order to make a sex change. You have forgotten all this, because you to speak of hate crimes could have chosen another more appropriate case, bearing in mind that this investigation is still incomplete. There have been cases of homophobic attacks not so long ago as the one in Basauri or the one most recently in Amorebieta. But if we talk about hate crimes, the Basque Country takes its palm in this section. You have suffered in your ranks the hatred of an important part of this society. The last known cases were that of the ex-counsel of Vitoria and that of his partner beaten at the university. What is surprising and striking is that they have chosen this case - which I repeat, today the real motivations for the crimes committed - to defend their amendment are unknown. In their initiative, they warn of the increase in hate crimes related to sexual orientation. And it seems to us that it is a matter of concern that we should work on in order to avoid aggression or expressions of violence against anyone, regardless of their sexual status, but against anyone. But, as I said earlier, the crime of ideological hatred in the Basque Country has been and continues to be in force. There is a hate crime against the ideological difference still present in many places on this earth. A hate crime that does not compute in the statistics, because it is a latent and underlying crime, that we suffer those who feel Basque and Spanish in this part of Spain. Unfortunately, there is a feeling of Spanishness repressed and oppressed by the asphyxiation of a nationalism that tries to impose its ideology. A feeling of Spanishness that here has not yet been able to leave the closet and that many people live it silently and underground. And all this for the fear of rejection as a result of the hatred inoculated for decades to whom we defend that we are at the same time Basque and Spanish. And, I repeat, this persistent and persistent hate crime, which does not have statistical effects, is still very present in our society. But, in order to eradicate the culture of hatred, institutional representatives may have to set an example, starting with this House. The attitude of certain political groups in this House only fosters the culture of hatred. Apartheid and political bullying that practice certain formations have their continuation in the streets of the Basque Country in the form of hate crimes for ideological reasons. It is incoherent and difficult to demand attitudes of respect and tolerance from citizens when their political representatives maintain attitudes of intolerance and intransigence towards those who do not commune with their political ideas. Therefore, if you want to end hate crimes, start by not encouraging the culture of hate in this House. That would be a good start. The problem in the Basque Country is that we have naturalized the crime of hatred for ideological reasons. When insults and threats of all kinds occur during the holding of a political act, these facts do not count as a hate crime, because some have normalized attitudes of ideological intolerance. And if there is no physical assault, it is because the acts are carried out under heavy police pressure. Therefore, without diminishing an apex of importance to hate crimes related to sexual orientation, the main hate crime that continues to be present in this part of Spain... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... Without diminishing an apex of importance to hate crimes related to sexual orientation, the main hate crime that continues to be present in this part of Spain is the crime for ideological reasons. A crime with decades of roots, encouraging even today by a large majority of the legislative representatives present in this House. And I end by saying that as a way of expressing our commitment to hate crimes because of sexual orientation, which does not include LGBTI, which includes a few, because it is a lobby in which not all those who have a certain sexual orientation are included. We are going to ask for the point vote on the PP-Citizens initiative and of course we will vote yes to the first point. Again: LGTBI is a lobby in which not everyone who has a certain sexual orientation is included. And that's why we think it's much more appropriate to have sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u88	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing the answer shift, representative of the popular-Chaulous team, Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it seems clear that the debate is showing a need for it; that is, I think it is clear that it is not opportunistic, but it is timely. Finally, it has also become clear to me that the amendment does not... The amendment you have made is not against the initiative, it is against the proposing group. I'm sorry, it's been bad for you that we introduced her. What are we going to do to him? The defense of LGBTI rights is not exclusive to any political group, no matter how bad it feels for others to do so too, is it? And Mr Iturrate, I encourage you to check the number of initiatives in defense of the LGTBI collective that your group or that your party has presented the Congress of Deputies and compare it to ours. I'd also like to ask you what you don't like about our initiative, because I'm going to read you the point and (is that true?) That he doesn't like anything. "The Basque Parliament condemns all hate crimes against sexual orientation and homophobic assaults, including attempted murder, attempted murder by the suspect." They don't like this. Good. Well, if you don't like it, make it clear what you're voting for that. But the lords of Bildu, who has indeed become very nervous, because they have not been the ones who have carried the issue. I'm so sorry. They've been allowed the luxury of talking about porn journalism. It gives me the impression that you guys have come up a little bit. And I have a feeling we haven't read any news. What I think has happened is that I have not read them in a way, that is, I believe that there is indeed a hypersensitivity to the issue that I believe does not benefit the LGBTI collective, but rather harms it. Mrs Martínez, you have forgotten to say that it is you who get nervous when talking about the LGTBI collective. Today, a minute ago, here they just called, they just arrived at this lobby group. It's not a lobby. The LGTBI collective is a collective, not a lobby. And I don't know what it has to do with it, what you... What you were talking about with what we have presented here in the initiative, because you took advantage of the Pisuerga passing not through Valladolid but through Cuenca to present or to talk about a topic that has absolutely nothing to do with it. This matter, I understand that your defense of hate crimes in general I can share, but it's that today we weren't talking about this, we were talking about something else and I know you're accusing them that we're talking about you don't like it, but you have to talk about it the same way. We need to talk about everything. And I want to take advantage of the last few minutes of my speech simply to remind you that next month, next June, in a few days, we have the celebration of Gay Pride Day. And that, as we did last year, we also invite all groups to come hand in hand on this occasion and we can present a movement on the part of this union Parliament. Moreover, thank you all for your interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group representative, Mrs. Anxiety. From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u91	Can't you hear me? Yes, you can hear it. Well, thank you, ma'am. I only wish to express my satisfaction or satisfaction for this common text. I think that by a text which yellowness leaves aside, it insists on things that are important. On the one hand, proclaiming the rights of persons to LGTBI, insisting on the opposition of the crime of hate. And on the other hand, I remark also that in this proportion of the responsibility of the causes of public opinion, what importance it is to take upon itself this responsibility, and to leave the stigmatization on one side. These, then, are the most important points in this matter, as has been said, independently of the yellows. And I'd encourage the signers there, of course, but the signature of the proposer... It's a blessing, too. And I'd encourage you to vote "yes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u93	From the seat, if you'll excuse me. Well, Mr. Gil, I repeat that I believe that you can support as a whole the entire amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist groups, Basque Socialists, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, because all... All three are important. And of course, I thank you... In your first speech you said that you are in agreement with Zapatero's Same-Sex Marriage Act, but I would like to remind you that the group in which you are now included - the People-Citizens Group - used that law. So, well, there you disagree about the rest of the group in which it is now included. And, Mrs. Martinez, I find it a little mind-blowing that I'm just going to support point one. I mean, the point where it's done... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ...and, Mrs. Martinez, I find it a little dazzling to say, "I'm just going to support point 1." That is to say, the point at which the strongest rejection of aggression is reflected. But point 2 which says that we consider it important to express our solidarity with the LGTBI group, that you do not like? And he says that he won't support it. That too? Oh, good. No, you do, Mrs. Martinez. I think, I think it's a little amazing, because solidarity, that's not, that's not... Solidarity with the LGTBI collective does not like it and they will not support it. Man, come on, he doesn't have any feet or heads. So what I invite you to do is to support absolutely the entire amendment of all the groups..., of the vast majority of the groups in this House, which I believe is quite complete. And that is what, of course, the vast majority of this House is going to support today, as it cannot be otherwise. And, of course, Mr Gil, of course my group will be working to reach the maximum consensus in the coming days in the statement coming out of this Parliament; as we have always done and as it cannot be otherwise. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u94	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. From EH Collect, Mr. Arrese, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u95	From the seat, Chief of Parliament. Mr Gil, it is nothing personal, but we do not like you to bring us this proposal for your fellow travellers and for the policies you carry out. I want to remind you that your group is formed by the People's and Citizens' Party. And I would like to remind you that your parliamentary group, the groups that make up your parliamentary group, give the right wing to the far right and give the field to policies that want to remove us from the map; and give the right wing to Vox, the far right. That is why we do not like you, in an exercise of hypocrisy, to bring the defence of LGBT rights to this Parliament; basically because you have fellow travellers who do the opposite. By the way, since you are a party at state level, since you, in your proposal today, at point 3, bring us a statement which also refers to the state, tell your party partner, yes, Mrs Villacís, to put the flag LGTB in the City Hall of Madrid and not to withdraw it, and not to withdraw it, not to withdraw it, as you have done this year. Companion of your party, not as a sidekick. And even if I came here, I would like to say that at the beginning of this legislature, unfortunately, there had been a homophobic attack on a young savage. And we took a photo, got a statement from the five teams of this parliament. And you were in that picture. And in a statement that we made on the 17th of May, I don't know why, there was no one in your parliamentary group, but I don't know where they were, but from the beginning of the legislature, this photo of the Council, which disappeared from that photograph, was your team. And I'd like to ask you, because there's a transmigration here. In these LGTB policies, the T also refers to the trans-line law. And I'd like you to have all the courage you've had here today for that law, and not as your team does, because he's only looking for obstacles. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. And finally, Eurta patriots, Mr. Iturate. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u97	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat. Mr Gil, you say that the amendment that... that your non-legislative proposal has not bothered us with its content, but that you present it. And he complained about that, I think it has become clear that what we do not like, of course, my group's non-legislative proposition is the content. It's a law, a bad proposition, very bad. Your initiative is not opportunistic because you present it, it is opportunistic because it takes advantage of a scandalous case that no one has shown so far that it is linked with homophobic hate crimes or with the LGTBphobia, you raise it to category and build it on that basis, and only on that basis, a non-law proposition. And he intends to adorn it as a pronouncement against LGBTIphobia or against LGBTIphobic hate crimes. No, your initiative talks about what you're talking about, says what you're saying, you have three points and in all three you're talking about a case of murders that you, and only you, are defining as homophobic murders. We'll see about that. When there are many actions, many actions, many homophobic violence, LGBTIphobic violence in this country, many daily microhomophobias that endure, we endure, children, girls, adults, the elderly in this country, day by day, small microhomophobias, small microlgtbiphobias that we endure and to which you make no reference in this text. We therefore voted against it. We present an amendment to your non-law proposal because it is bad, because it is yellow, because it is poor, simply because what we say in our amendment is better, it is more complete, it is more attached to reality and it defends better what we want to defend, which is freedom and respect for diversity and equality for all people. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u99	Well, what I mean is, of course, we all share sexual diversity. I think that's been obvious to all of us. What we haven't done since Vox is share the LGTBI lobbies and how they manipulate certain people. I want to say that Mr Arrese cannot stand as the representative of homosexuals, because I would say homosexuality is neither right nor left, Mr Arrese. Would you also come here to condemn a homophobic attack on Vox's homosexual? Surely that wouldn't interest you, would it? Because you don't sell your banner. I assure you that there are many homosexuals in Vox too, and, of course, we respect you very much. But I repeat again: we will not be comulgating... I don't understand why you laugh, because I have respected all of you's speaking shifts... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... Of course we respect him very much. But I repeat again: we will not be comulgating... I do not understand why you laugh, because I have respected the speaking shifts of all of you without laughing at anything at all. So I hope we all have the same respect. We were talking about respect for the homosexual collective, let's start with respect in this chamber, which is what I said down there. Because you lose respect every time you talk to others, and do not commune with your own ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u100	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. After discussion, we'll vote for another proposal like the Basque Groups of populars. No points requested. So we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 6; the contrary, 64; Absences, 0; white,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u101	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 5th; the contrary, 65; Abstations, 0; white,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u102	They weren't allowed. Next, the Eucabertians, the EH Collect, the Basque Socialists, and together we vote for the full correction of the Podemos teams. Asked for points unless it's a problem. We vote first and second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 69; the opposites, 1; the abstainers, 0; white ones, 0; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u103	So the first and second points have been accepted. We'll vote for the third point next. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 10th, 64; the contrary, 6; the abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-16.u104	So the third point is accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at sixteen o'clock in the afternoon.
