ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of Jon Andon, the deputy and security department of the group, the members of the United States, the members of the United States, the leaders of the House of Representatives and Security, the border-intentions on the future and greater phenomena of cycling." Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr Erkoreka, in your appearance last March you brought us a figure that we understand very remarkable from our group. And that data was none other than during the year 2021 of every five offences investigated by the Ertzaintza one of them was a computer crime or that had been committed using computer means. The informal crimes are not new, but they are continually increasing in the past few years. Mr. Erkora, as you have stated, we are more and more digitally surroundings, as we live and move in a more digitally environment, and the crime is also digitalized. Mr. Erkorec, in front of this situation, what an operation the edge intends to perform in order to prevent the growing phenomenon of Cygreenlinkuity. ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Cuckoo, as you may well say, informal crimes have had a remarkable rise in the Eukadin during the last few years; in the first of this year's birth, they have known the rise of 24% in comparison with the former. But if we take a greater amount of time in reference, we have seen that this increase is still more obvious. In this period between 2017 and 2021 the number of these crimes went up to 80%. It is clear, therefore, that they are in a strong climb. And the consequence is, as you have well stated, that between five of the charges which are to be found in Eukadin, one of the five is − 20, that is to say, about informal crimes. Delitu hauen atzetik esan beharrekoa da gehienak, 90a gutxi gorabehera, edukin ekonomiko delituak dira, patrimoneran kontrako delituak dira; scam gehien bat. But it would be a mistake to consider that scams virtually exhaust the phenomenon of cybercrime, because, at the same time, although they still have a small percentage, year after year they also increase crimes against people that occur through the Internet. Crimes such as threats, harassment, coercion against sexual freedom and, above all, usurpation of identity and usurpation of marital status. As you have rightly pointed out, we are indeed faced with a phenomenon of digitization of our lives. In every order our life is digitized: in the staff, in the relational, in the labor, in the economic - our economic transactions increasingly occur also through the Internet - even in the affective. And this has made the crime comfortable and effective in an area, in the cyber field, in which it also finds facilities for concealment. What does Ertzaintza do in front of this? In order to address this phenomenon, a Plan of Action against Cybercrime 2021-2025 was adopted last year, which operates in different areas, basically four. In the organizational field, a stable research team has been set up in this field, which assumes the leadership of the investigation of Internet crimes and, in addition, articulates the relations, articulates the dialogue with the specialized Office of the Attorney-General in this field that has been constituted, the autonomous one has been constituted in August of the same year. Secondly, as far as the investigation itself is concerned, a new specific protocol has been drawn up for the investigation of such offences. And the criminal scheme has been restructured, the organization of teams in territorial and competitive areas, so that the allocation of criminal investigation related to each crime is made according to gravity. In the field of training there is a specific plan. The promotion of this year of the academy will already come out with a specific plan, but from now on that training will be given systematically in the academy to all promotions. And in the field of prevention we have a whole strategy with effects, with preventive alerts, campaigns, seminars, talks aimed at all the most vulnerable groups, which are practically exclusively minors and students. Finally, I would also like to highlight, even if only for a mention, the Basque Cybersecurity Agency to which the lehendakari referred in the general policy debate, which the government will soon bring to the House a bill that requires urgency. We look forward to the complicity of the parliamentary groups in their prompt processing and adoption, because it is a fundamental instrument.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Subject:second point in list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the members of the legislature of the Maddalen Irina Presidency to the President, concerning the necessity of a treaty." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning. During the past few weeks, we have often discussed the complex social state of our lives... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning. During the past few weeks we have often discussed the complex social state of our lives. Sometimes you have spoken to us about a storm, and sometimes you have been around a change of time, but as if these were appearances of cause. The Basque People have proposed a treaty of well-being in order to ensure the worthy life of the people, and they think it necessary that this treaty should be supported by public services, and that it should be possible for them to conquer their wealth. And I ask whether, in your opinion, this sort of well-being is necessary or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And, yes, it is well to agree on the terms of continuing to promote the welfare. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u9	Thanks again. I didn't think it was the big answer, Mr. Urkullu. You brought five towns with you, but you can't pretend to be a magical thing. They must be cultivated, negotiated, given, collected, accepted, as we have done in certain matters. Yo no le voy a decir que habula a la galería, porque no quisian que haable a la quailía. But you proposed the next budget as a local pact. There's a calendar set, and we're not talking yet, Mr. Urkullu. And I don't want this government to be locked up like other years and starting with it. For us, the prosperity agreement proposed, the discussion of this budget, the deliberations, the discussions, and even an element for negotiation, are thought to be an important element. Look, Mr. Urkullu, there are real reality at this moment. The quality of public services is being lowered, and the most striking example of it is Osace, for the Government itself has admitted that there have been restrictions. And it's not just that. The housing price is shot, and no doubt the price requires a limit. The clerk and the prefect are going by the hand, and you have proposed a rent treaty, but in Madrid it was arranged with the patriarchal. It's a serious situation in the first sector. It'll be even more serious. And with that there's need to be a climate adoption. You've let our people lose sectors that were strategic to our country. The small and average corporation hasn't paid enough attention. At least they say so. And these and many more things we have in a very complex problem. And to do all this, what about the necessary prosecution, Mr. Urkullu? That this government is in the path which Populous Party approves. And we're going to have to discuss the prosecution, right? Something to think about. They need the answers of the moment when these realities are needed, and I am not tired of looking at the years that come in the strategic decision, which are in the direction of this part of this country. And admitting that we have a very complex situation, and that in our discourse we all say we will do it without any one being behind us. This requires a modification of public policy and a redistribution of wealth. And in this sense the mere mention of the three months ago made a noise, and so many things played impossible by the improvident, and so many things are now happening in this sense. And Europe is changing the rules you're talking about so often. In some matters we're late, and we shouldn't leave it to-morrow until tomorrow to start working on a number of things that need an answer. And this cannot be done with the usual prayers, because the situation is not eternal. And if this government has taken the size of the situation, if it is to be understood that it must change, and if it is ready for it, we ought to see the signs. We want to see the signs, and for the moment we see them in the valley, and not in the process of answering for a change of time. And we, I repeat, want to see the signs, Mr. Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart. You've proposed a peace agreement, and you've asked me for my opinion. It's not new what you've proposed. I will not question whether, in some cases, it is necessary to make a treaty of nations, to give an answer to those nations which I have so often proposed to Araba, Biscay, and Gipus. It's not news, it's not the name of the Word of Good News, Mrs. Irart. Anyway, our model is the bearable Human Development that's been offering results in decades. It is not only the worthy and well-being of all the citizens in a fair way to divide them, but only those of the 16 strategic plans which have been introduced at the commencement of the legislation of patient development and intelligent growth. It's only four weeks ago that we made five proposals to keep up Euskade's welfare. The agreements, the budgets, the manual, first attention, the demographic challenge and the energy pact. With this we advanced 11 new plans of law, and as you know, the door of conversation and of the agreement is open here in the laws which are being established, and in the new plans of the law we shall receive. And from July she's still waiting for a sign from you, Mrs. Irriart. In this country, we have decades to promote welfare and cohesion of society from bases. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Yeah. This, indeed, is necessary when a compact is proposed, to be precise, to determine the contents, and to consider the means. You mention the tax reform. Okay. But when the evaluation has been made, and has been agreed with all the institutions, it will be proposed. Because the modern system is the most progressive around us and produces good results. The rest, with the current system, family, and company... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... Because the modern system is the most progressive around us and produces good results. The rest is because we've been able to take steps to help the weakest families and corporations with the present system. This country, Mrs Iriarte, has developed a model of sustainable human development, from public-private collaboration. A model that is yielding results because it strengthens the Euskadi of welfare and social cohesion. Look, this year we are going to recover all the gross domestic product lost during the pandemic, we have more people working and contributing to social security than ever before, and the risk of poverty in Euskadi is 13%, when in Europe 22%. Ladies and gentlemen, the door is open because we must continue to strengthen our well-being. We haven't ignored your proposal. And that's what there's a chance of several laws we've got in hand. It is evident that the more extensive a compact is made, the better our well-being is secured. We've built a way of consent with the intention of remuneration of the revenue, and we've raised a very important protection from the operating communities. It would be the clearest proof of your well-being and the will for the treaty that we have hitherto obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, María Jesús San José lópez Euscal Sozialist members of the Society of Planting, Housing and Transport Commander, about the management of the buildings and housing funds." Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. President, the Vence Prefector, the Chiefs, the congressmen, all good days. Introleum yellow, that's on. The Socialists believe that the European Union's Next Generation funds have been the greatest advance in this century for European integration, not only because of the amount mobilized, but also because of the objectives. Among them is to boost economic activity and create employment to counter the impact of the pandemic in the short term to support a process of structural transformation and strengthen resilience, moving towards sustainable and inclusive development. European funds are a great opportunity. The Socialists would say that this is a decisive opportunity for the modernisation of Europe, Spain and Euskadi. And it is that Euskadi has one of the oldest housing parks in all of southern Europe, with homes that require updates to improve the comfort of citizens and to add to the fight against climate change through the decarbonisation of their own homes. The Housing Master Plan 2021-2023 addresses the need to deepen the rehabilitation of the built park. And the Spanish Government's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and Next Generation funds devote important efforts to the decarbonization of housing and buildings through reforms. On 21 June the Governing Council adopted the order regulating these new European aid. The standard establishes the basis and regulates the call for aid of the three, four and five rehabilitation programs within the Next Generation Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. It also defines the network of rehabilitation offices and collaborating entities that will be shared in one-stop shops to apply for aid. The funds will be used to finance works on common elements of residential buildings, specific interventions within houses and the development of technical documentation for their rehabilitation or for the drafting of technical projects, always with the requirement to address energy efficiency through the reduction of energy demand and consumption of non-renewable energy in houses and buildings. These European energy efficiency aid will be complementary to the rehabilitation aid that the Basque Government maintains active in other areas, such as improving accessibility, digitisation and habitability. In view of the activation of these subsidies, the Basque Socialist parliamentary group asks you the following question: how are they channelling the management of the funds that the European Union has earmarked for the energy rehabilitation of buildings and housing? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u14	Thank you, Mrs. San José. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs San José, the decarbonisation of the Euskadi housing stock is an unavoidable challenge. And Next funds are going to give us a unique opportunity for (?) on the one hand, the fight against climate change, and, on the other, to improve people's comfort. As you said, our park is one of the oldest in southern Europe and this brings with it a number of problems and shortcomings that directly affect the quality of life of citizens. In the Department of Housing we are aware of this and have permanently opened the lines of assistance for the rehabilitation of housing and buildings in terms of accessibility, habitability, security and digitization, as well as those aimed at comprehensive reforms that include several of these improvements. We also support energy reforms, and since this summer on an exceptional basis - as indicated in its justification - we have activated an additional budget of €39.1 million from the Next funds specifically for the energy and efficient rehabilitation of buildings and housing. The commitment is also that we will receive another 47.2 million in the coming months. And this will allow us to give even greater impetus to actions, such as improvements in the envelope of buildings, the installation of renewable energy sources or the updating of enclosures for better insulation. They're necessary actions for you to... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... of buildings, the installation of renewable energy sources or the updating of enclosures for better insulation. They are necessary actions for all people to join in the energy transition through the decarbonization of our homes. But an opportunity of this stalemate, which will conclude in 2026, also involves an effort in terms of management. To carry it out with guarantee, we have created a powerful network of collaborating entities, 16 in total, with which we have signed agreements that since July allow citizens to come to them and ask for information and initiate procedures to apply for aid. These collaborating entities are: Visesa, Ensanche 21, Surbisa, Surposa, Bidegi, Bidebi, Eretza, Sestao Berri, Beruala, Sudaresa, Oarsoaldea, Azkoitia Lantzen, Donostiako Etxegintza, Debegesa, Irunvi, Azpeitia Berritzen and Zarautz Etxebizitza Bulegoa. We thank all of them for their commitment to bringing these aids closer to the citizenry. We have also created a web page with detailed information, and we have promoted a promotional campaign to encourage communities of owners and individuals to join this wave of energy rehabilitation. Through these channels, we explain that the subsidies are retroactive, as they can be applied for works carried out from 1 February 2020 until 30 June 2026. In addition, the criterion for granting aid focuses on the percentage of reduction in non-renewable primary energy consumption and demand for heating and cooling. For example, residential building reforms are granted between EUR 6,300 and EUR 18,000 per dwelling, which increases to an additional EUR 23,500 per household with persons in vulnerable situations. In addition, as you said, these aids are compatible with those currently in existence, i.e. they can be complemented by others aimed at improving accessibility, external habitability, security or digitisation, if you want to perform, in addition to energy efficiency actions, other actions in the housing. We faced this performance of efficient rehabilitation with a baggage: in 2021, (was it good year?), the 22nd year will be better. And we hope to achieve the goal of achieving 3% annual rehabilitation of the housing stock, and for that purpose...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Your time is up. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi is made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, that the rights of the people should not depend on the rules of speculation." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President. Well, in July, the Arkbanks, the financial institutions, sold hundreds of mortgages, the Basque families, to a vulture fund in Dublin's residence. I mean, the rights to the family housing are subjected to speculators. On the other hand, this same week, we heard about the case in Maria Angeles, a lady (... () His son signed a mortgage in Madrid, and placed it on him like his mother's house, and though now his son is dead, his mother is about to lose the house. The question is, that these are not isolated cases, there are many such; and then what we see is, that the fundamental rights are frequently placed under speculative interests; in this case the right to the house. Hori de la Eta, nire gallera gaur zuretzat da, lehendakari jauna: What is this government going to do so that the rights of Basque citizens are not subject to speculative practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Gorrotxategi andrea, the activity of the Basque Government is focused on combating any kind of speculation directed against the legitimate interests of citizens. The sale of loans by a financial institution does not affect the rights of the borrowers. These rights have been regulated by law since 2019. And it's my responsibility to give you an integrated response to people who need a decent and proper housing. He's directed 266 million euros this year, and together with that, our tax system turns 300 million dollars per year to promote the housing rent and re-production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u21	Mr. President, it's true, and the housing is too expensive. And it is true, also, that they are not in an isolated case, but in many cases, and that the right to the housing is frequently subordinated to speculative interests. And I think there is also a great reason under this, and this is the deregulation of the market. The market is so deregised, it may be left to the funds, that the public powers have but little to do. But the question is: Is it really so that public powers have so little to do? On the one hand, I think self-recurrence is a political decision, which is partly a political decision. But it's just that, too, there's more. The Basque Government has 16,000 apartments, and the housing portfolio of the Alokabide society. To these public floors, strict sensu, must also be added those managed by private companies such as those of Bentaberri. However, it draws attention to the fact that official housing is precisely the gateway to the large real estate funds in Euskadi. Financial entities that are in the spotlight, by the way, of all the collectives in defense of housing because of their disproportionate price increases, for the arbitrary expulsions of tenants and tenants and for other abuses that violate the right to housing. Bentaberri's was the first of the scandals related to social rental housing, but it's not the last. We have the case of the Swedish investment fund (...), with the housing of Salburua, Zabalgana in Vitoria-Gasteiz. A transaction with which the Basque Government, of the 868 floors of VPO, left 500 in the hands of this fund. We can also remember the vulture background Azora, which bought Vascongada Real Estate, a Basque company with more than 300 rented floors. And besides, Azora, which is the typical background case of... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... to agree on the vulture Azora fund that bought Vascongada real estate, a Basque company with more than 300 rented floors, and besides, Azora that is... the typical case of a fund of speculation that buys flats, makes them expensive and makes the tenants lose the possibility to continue living in them; that is, in general Euskadi is a paradise, but it is a paradise of housing, but for the builders. In any case, and this I believe is important, I believe that the Basque Government does have things to do, it can do things to avoid evictions and to facilitate rent. And this is what I wanted to comment on. The Basque Government, for example, can adopt at once the decree regulating the subjective right to housing contained in Law 3/2015. They can expand the housing stock so that the benefit becomes only a subsidiary element. It can define which areas are strained in order to intervene in the market, it can comply with the provision in Proposition No of Law 52/2021, Improvement of the Gaztelagun program, not only in updating the rental touches, it can mobilize the 15,000 empty houses and manage them directly to meet the demand for rent. It may act on its own initiative in municipalities where Decree 149/2021 does not exist. I ask you, President, to face speculation and regularize, regulate the housing, really...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs. Hatch, I'm telling you again. A financial institution does not endanger the rights of loans. And these rights are legally regulated from the 15th of March 2019. This law brought to the Juridic Institution of the State of Spain, which was acknowledged in 2014. You mentioned the Arkbanks, and the Arkbanks are extremely private, and the bank of Spain depends on the administration and control system of the Bank, or that is part of the Central System and Central Bank of Europe. You may suggest a change of law to change this system. I want you to be clear that you're gonna be our support for that purpose. And I reiterate that the activity of the Basque Government is focused on combating any kind of speculation directed against the legitimate interests of citizens. The sale of loans by a financial institution – as I said earlier – does not compromise the rights of borrowers. These rights have been regulated by law since 2019. Kutxabank's activity – which you referred to – is private, and is subject to a system of regulation and control that depends on the Spanish Government, Mrs Gorrotxategi, to which your party is a party. And if you bring about a more secure legislative change, you will have our support. As far as the scope of our powers is concerned, we are sensitive to the situation of people who, under various circumstances, have difficulties in meeting their obligations (?) believe, and run the risk of losing their home. All of them have the support of the Basque Government, with advice and financial aid to solve their problems. This sensitivity is reflected in the lower incidence of this problem in Euskadi compared to other autonomous communities. And I'll give you some information that the General Council of the Judiciary has as its source of information. Euskadi is the community with the lowest number of launches per inhabitant of the entire State. Between 2013 and 2021 in Euskadi there were 37 launches per 10,000 inhabitants, compared to 99 of the average in the State. Most of these launches have been carried out under the Urban Leases Act, i.e. due to non-payment of rent. Foreclosures, to which your question refers, have a clearly descending trajectory. Euskadi was one of the first communities to implement social measures to fight against launches in the most vulnerable groups. I am referring to the service of mortgage mediation, a partnership agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary, the direct award of social housing in case of loss of housing by mortgage execution, or supplementary aid programmes for the payment of rent for particularly vulnerable persons. And we're still open to analyzing new lines of help, if necessary. These Government programmes have been highly valued by his party, so that they have spread to other communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the member of the Ciudads made to the president of another retrogression of the works of AHT." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. President, good morning. We have spoken on other occasions in this rostrum about the delays in the high-speed train, but the most important thing is that the updates of those delays will come to us camouflage on this occasion in the state budgets for the year 2023. Something we knew last week that surprised public opinion. Now it turns out that, as those who do not want it, the completion of the works goes from 2026 to 2027, the entry into service for 2028, and the stations of the capitals we will see some day, but in no case, before 2030. News against the interest of all Basques, lehendakari. Mr. Sanchez beats his own record. Before it was a year behind the Basque Greek Y for every year of its government, they are now little more than three years behind the government and more than four years behind, by the way, with an increasingly distant and more diffuse horizon in time as well. This isn't anything, it's a hairdo seen like that. A hairdo we know you didn't catch Mr. Arriola by surprise. Come on, as he said, he already knew and was informed. But there's one question we all have to ask. And you, lehendakari, did you know that too, is there or is there no such loyal flow of information within your government? And if you knew, why hasn't public opinion been informed, why don't the Basques know about the government's failures, which their party supports and which the budgets vote for? It is significant that this announcement coincides with the budgets for the year 2023, because 2023 was precisely the date on which Mariano Rajoy's government promised to complete the works. By the way, a week before you and Mr. Sanchez laid him down on false pretexts. And since that commitment we've only known postponements, now almost out of the blue. That's why I... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Mr. Sanchez will be lying on false pretexts. And since that commitment we've only known postponements, now almost out of the blue. That is why I ask you from my group how you intend to react, lehendakari, to your Government's continued postponement of the arrival of high speed in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. First of all, I want to thank you for the speedy network performances you've shown to finish faster and for the interest you're interested in. I agree that this play has been delayed for years. With this other temporal delay, it would delay thirteen times to arrive at the Euscade. In 1992, the first high-speed part was opened between Madrid and Seville. So, it's been 30 years since then, and Euskadin's delay has been accumulated. It's been sixteen years since the Jest Party member of the Eusis agreed with the Spanish government for the next year's budgets, as a formula for managing it in 2006. In the 15 years of the last 30 years, the responsibility of the Spanish Government has been assigned to the Popular Party. When the popular party governs, it affects the loss; and when it does not govern, it demands a greater speed. And it's not serious, not even responsible. Look at it. The Spanish Government has had a level of investment around Y while the Popular Party has been in command. You ask me about the reaction of the Basque Government. We have prioritized this investment in all negotiations with the Spanish Government; we have assumed the management order and carried out the works in time and form; we have agreed a new management order for the works of access to the capitals; we have raised this issue as a priority vis-à-vis the General Budgets of the State for 2023. We are talking about the draft budgets of the Spanish Government, and you are subject to amendments, including those of your group, Mr Iturgaiz. I hope that your reaction will be in favour of increasing the number of items intended to complete this priority work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. It is to be thanked for the novelty you have brought to this plenary today of teaching here what you have taught us, those pamphlets that you have raised in this rostrum. Well, they're not bad. Mr Lehendakari, the high-speed train must be a priority, as you have said, and you have confirmed in this rostrum that the high-speed train has delays, so many delays that to be Euskadi, as you always point out, one of the leading autonomous communities in this country, we are the last or we will be the last in which the high-speed train will reach this land. That's a reality. That's a reality. You were saying about the People's Party, but, look, it's been almost 35 years since the year 88. In that general policy debate we began to talk about Basque Y. Then you used it as a currency of exchange in your pacts with Otegi and with Mr Madrazo, the high-speed train. It is true that the deadlines also changed when the People's Party government was in place. Yes, because you and we, you and we together - and don't forget, lehendakari - we proposed and agreed on a substantial modification of the project to improve it; we agreed on underground entries into the capitals – which, by the way, were not previously planned – and because there were also serious complications – you will remember – in the Bergara knot, including the termination of awards that was also added to all of this. Overcoming all these situations and reconsidering everything, the commitment - I say again - was the year 2023. But we're talking now that maybe we can see it for the 28th, if it's not the 29th or the 30th. That's the reality, and that's what's a nonsense, a nonsense that you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, if you want, I will turn this pamphlet - which you have quoted this way -, the photocopy, I will minimize, I will turn it into an octavilla and I will hand it over to you, all right? In any case, from the year 2008 to the present year is what the investments of the State have been; blue, People's Party. I have always denounced the delay in the work before the European Commission how many times I have had, Mr Iturgaiz; I have also done so before the Spanish Government, and I have also proposed the management commission as an alternative. And much of the postponements and delays suffered stem from the legislatures in which the People's Party was at the head of the Spanish Government. You don't need to go to the hemerotheque or the congressional diary to verify this information instead of pamphlets or leaflets. You know it, and so do I. It is not very consistent to criticize the delay when it has not been diligent enough at the time when the responsibility to govern and the opportunity to accelerate this priority infrastructure, which is a priority for the trans-European transport network, has been taken on board. And I remind you that Basque Y is part of priority project number three, high-speed rail axis of south-west Europe, and was thus ratified at the Essen summit in 1994, 28 years ago. And Basque Y was included in the Atlantic Corridor Lisbon-Strasbourg as a priority in the trans-European networks approved in October 2011, 11 years ago. For Europe, Basque Y remains the lost link. It's the sad reality. Today, 80% of the Spanish population has access to the high-speed train, but the connection of the European Atlantic axis through France remains unopened. Does that make sense? Not for the European Union. And so I have made it known to the Spanish Government on repeated occasions. Every year I'm late... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...through France it's still unopened. Does that make sense? Not for the European Union. And so I have made it known to the Spanish Government on repeated occasions. Each of the years of delay represents a disregard for Basque society, for this Parliament and for the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpotion, David Soso Rodríguz, together with the President, a member of the Podemos-IU team, about the economic policies of Euskeleon. " Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors. Counselor, good morning. We live in complex times, we are faced with a paradigm shift and successive crises are interconnected. We are convinced, and I have also spoken to you on more than one occasion, that we and we share the need to move towards a different, sustainable consumption model with the planet, which guarantees equal rights and the well-being of citizens. What is in question is the way, the times and who is allied on that path. It is true that there are new challenges to be faced, but, in turn, there are also logics lived in the past that should not be repeated. We have had the opportunity to discuss here on more than one occasion with other groups from different political points of view how we have reached this turning point, these crises which, as I said, are interconnected. Oil crisis in the 1970s. The end of the fordist world (...) of the post-war period, the beginning of monetary policies and the financialization of the economy. Hence, an inflation crisis caused by the rise in oil prices led to a shift in direction towards total deregulation. All supported on the basis of offshoring production with low labour costs and huge supply chains. The recipe that was applied to that crisis, already far away, is the consequence of the economic crises that we are experiencing right now. It has resulted in the crisis that we are now suffering. A climate crisis generated by unlimited extraction and control of natural resources. A price crisis caused by the lack of raw materials. Geopolitical crises generated by the sharing of these scarce resources. And finally, inequality and more inequality. The recipe that was applied to the financial crisis, in turn also in 2008, - a crisis that in turn came as a result of the economic liberalization that I was talking about - exacerbated the crises that we are now experiencing. In the 2023 budget guidelines you announced, the goal was to deepen the recovery of the crises caused by the health pandemic and cushion the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine. However, in those same economic guidelines that you marked for the 2023 budget, paradoxically, you also pointed out that the investment and economic recovery bet could only be credible if it was united and coupled with the Basque Government's strong commitment to budgetary stability. The document, therefore - and we have moved it on more than one occasion in recent years - was based on a premise of a certain economic thinking that constrains public finances. That is, we believe that we can again stumble upon the same stones that have led us to the same mistakes, incurring prescriptions that have remained clearly ineffective over time and, of course, that have not contributed to improving the quality of life of citizens. In any case, it is true that the Basque Government sometimes goes into a certain contradiction, and that, at the same time as it shares a certain philosophical bias of liberal cut, it is also cast in the arms of the announcement of plans, of public expenditure, of public investment. It is true that with greater courage and voluntarism when investments come from the European Union or, failing that, from the Government of Spain. But it is true that you will certainly come out here to list a number of programmes and plans that accompany public expenditure and therefore do not adhere exclusively to that philosophical principle of the constriction of public expenditure and budgetary stability. But we believe that this contradiction that you sometimes incur has a fairly clear proof of cotton, not only for the Basque Government, but also for many other institutions, which is what concerns fiscal policy. There can be no extension of public spending, there can be no real investment policy like the one you announced in the previous year's budget as unaudited since the years 2008, if these public spending policies are not accompanied – although, philosophically, in the part of your macroeconomic guidelines make it clear the need for budgetary stability – if extension policies are not also applied to promote public spending on fiscal policy. And this is where you in this exercise, let's say, cotton test doesn't get out of the liberal mantra. They do not implement tax reforms because - as you have said on many occasions when I have discussed with you - it is not the time, it is not the time to do a redistributive or progressive exercise in the fiscal framework. But I insist, not only can redistributive policies be implemented a posteriori, but we believe that ex ante should also generate policies that contribute to the sharing of wealth. And in this sense we believe that the valid instrument should be fiscal policy. They believe that this is not the time, but, in turn, other international bodies are calling for changes in this direction and, in turn, the Spanish Government itself has gone on the road; not with the depth that we would like to see, but it has, of course, proposed fiscal changes in the direction of redistribution of wealth. We are in contradiction with your argument that this is not the time and that we must apply seriousness to the tax debate. You have even come to mark, your Government has even marked, or your group in the Congress of Deputies, a fiscal festival what was being announced by the Government of Spain. And, of course, tell him that we do not in any way share that assertion when, moreover, the data of growing inequality in Euskadi regarding the fiscal framework are intense and inescapable to you, Mr. Counsellor. I already told you on a question two weeks ago. Before the 2008 crisis, capital income was 39,6 %, while by 2020 the percentage was reduced to 24 %. There are 15 points less contribution of capital income to the arks... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... while by 2020 the percentage has been reduced to 24 %. There are 15 points less contribution of capital income to the arks. The income of 20% of the population with higher incomes and 20% with lower incomes has increased from 3.6 in 2008 to 4.4 in 2020. You mentioned to me the Gini index, which basically raises wage inequality, and this has gone from 25.2 % to 28.2 % in these ten years. 1%, I also told you two weeks ago, accumulates around 20% of the wealth in our country. A decade ago it didn't reach 14%. The historical territories are on the podium of the rebates in the Taxes of Heritage and Successions. In 2018, the average tax-based capital duty rate was 0.39 %. Revenues with more than EUR 6 million had an actual rate of 0.64 %. A 20% loss has been made in the collection of corporation tax since 2008, as a result of the different tax engineering instruments implemented in the last decade. By the way, all these reforms were agreed with the People's Party in 2017, and before in 2013. Madrid and the Basque Country are consolidated, this is intercomilado, as the regions with the greatest fiscal attractiveness for companies and investors. It must be that enabling ecosystem that is often mentioned a lot, and this is according to the latest autonomic index of fiscal competitiveness. The People's-Citizens' Party often criticizes, in fact two weeks ago (...) the People's Party, in its question to Mr Lehendakari, that taxes should be further lowered. We are quite surprised by the criticism of the People's Party, and in fact we agree with Mr Lehendakari when he replied that they should be happy with the Basque tax system, bearing in mind that, as he said earlier, we are currently competing fiscally with Madrid because it is the most attractive ecosystem for the investment of large assets and large multinationals and investment funds. And even more so when the successive fiscal pacts that have been given in the last decade have been promoted with the People's Party. Mr Garamendi recently said that the tax on big fortunes is a real mistake, and he also considered that the coalition government is dividing the population between rich and poor, between good and bad. Mr. Garamendi has very clear who he defends, what interests he defends. And what I advocate are the failed recipes that I mentioned to you at the beginning of my intervention in recent decades. Here the question is in fiscal terms, what the government intends to do. I know that you are going to leave me, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, to list all the public spending plans that the Basque Government wants to develop or has already developed. But under no circumstances will I be answered in relation to the tax reform so peremptory that this country has. And surely what you're telling me is that what had to be done in fiscal terms has already been done, which is deflation. And since I am not going to have time, I will speak in the reply, in the case of the same, of the deflation - which, moreover, today in view of the fact that there is the Basque Finance Council, it is surely moving as the application of deflation in concrete terms - later on, in the reply I can argue why we believe that deflation is not the way. Not so much because it is bad per se, that we do not consider it that way, but because we consider it as the only way, if it is bad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Soto. For crying out loud. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u35	Mr. President, president, chief of departments, members of the legislature, Mr. Soso, good morning to all of you. Mr. Soto, so far as you are concerned, it's one of the missions of the Treasury and Ogal Department to continue the state of the Basque economy, as well as the continuation of the state and international economic situation, using technical forecasts. Thus, the Department of Economics and Finance has a battery of tools, macroeconomic analysis, which allows us to monitor daily, weekly, quarterly and in the medium and long term the behavior of the Basque economy. Furthermore, we do so with the utmost transparency and rigour, as it is a priority for Basque citizens to have access to the information we have in the economic sphere. The quarterly report, you will know, (...), the thermometer of the Basque Community, monthly reports, annual report, etc., etc. And it is precisely this comprehensive follow-up to the assessment of the state and international Basque situation that has led us to review the economic forecasts following the publication by EUSTAT of the final data for the previous quarter, estimating an increase of 4.3% for the year 22, and 2.1% for the next year. Yesterday we learned that AIREF has endorsed our forecasts by considering them feasible, also referring to the good practices and methods we use to develop them. By the way, these estimates made with the model of quarterly simulation of the Basque economy and which are reflected in the quarterly report published in September, are almost coincident with those published in early October by the Ministry of Economy for the Spanish economy as a whole. Furthermore, Mr Soto, it is well known that downside revisions are occurring in cascades in most developed economies, due to the impact of geopolitical conflicts, contractive monetary policy, increased volatility and uncertainty, and negative prospects in much of the world's major economies. Thus, global growth for 2023 has been revised in the OECD by six tenths to 2.2%. The slowdown is expected to be particularly pronounced in (...) in the case of the European economies particularly affected by the rise in energy costs and supply-cutting risks from Russia, among which in the case of Germany and Italy, with forecasts of practical stagnation until the second quarter of 23. Therefore, forecasts of 2.1 growth in the Basque economy by 2023, when the potential growth of our economy is around 1.8%, should be interpreted as a sign of readiness to face a complicated global context, and should serve us to articulate a tractor and responsible budget project, allowing us to continue to implement policies that promote more robust, resilient and sustainable growth, without leaving anyone behind. Not all data are negative. The IPC data for Euskadi for September has just come out, and it stands at 8.5%... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...and sustainable without leaving anyone behind. Not all data are negative. The CPI data for Euskadi for the month of September, which stands at 8.5%, has just come out, almost two points below the previous year's rate. And that means that in terms of inflation we seem to be moving in the right direction. And I would say even with some favorable intensity. You speak, Mr Soto, of the need for a change of direction and I do not know exactly what direction we are heading. The direction of our policies is characterized by the promotion of the green and fair transition, by the transformation of society through investments that enhance the infrastructures, skills and technologies necessary for the development of an economy and a digital society, by the search for competitive improvement in our productive fabric, in addition to support with specific and temporary measures to the sectors most affected by the escalation of energy prices and to the most vulnerable groups. Each and every one of the policies we are implementing in this legislature goes in this direction. I invite you to review the government programme of the ongoing Euskadi legislature. And if you want to accompany us on the inclusive growth path, I invite you to recalibrate the GPS, true and definite course. I now turn to the famous remnants of the Basque Government, an issue which Mr Gordillo has also been able to clarify on several occasions in this Parliament. I believe, Mr Soto, that the rematch policy that this government has followed will not be of the (sickness?) or the liberal behavior of this government that you are blaming. This is where I don't think the contradiction you raised is coming from. The Basque Government intentionally decided to rely on these remnants. And in 2021 we used all our debt capacity to be able to have the necessary solvency in case the pandemic continued, and with the intensity to which we were accustomed. Fortunately, the pandemic under its influence, to our reality, but in February of the 22nd, a war broke out that destabilized the entire planet. And now, well what you call contradiction. Contradiction is that I hope you agree. The Basque Government, because of these remnants, has been able to react since the first week to the effects of the war and has had in our economy and in our society, immediately implementing public policies with these remnants. On 15 March, energy efficiency and cost-saving measures were presented to the Governing Council, which are managed through the Basque Energy Authority, with a budget of EUR 150 million. On 22 March, the Governing Council approved the financing measures for the companies most affected by the crisis, managed through the IVF and Elkargi, which have a credit line of 10 million euros for the financing of the circulation of small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, liquidity aid was launched for all companies affected by the crisis. A EUR 528 million Euskadi 2024 strategic investment plan was presented to the Governing Council on 29 March. I'm on it. We put in place complementary measures valued at around 200 million euros, articulated in a social rescue fund and an economic rescue fund. The Social Rescue Fund includes social aid for vulnerable people, social emergency aid to alleviate energy poverty, aid for the integration of homeless people, resources for young people without family support, local support networks for older and vulnerable people and the Azken Sarea Indartzen network. On the other hand, social assistance for the reception of Ukrainian refugees, first reception programme, Azken Sarea indartzen network Ukraine, Loturak, local reception networks for immigrants, psychological support programme for refugees and Aukera Suspertzen and educational reinforcement of young people in Ukraine. The Economic Rescue Fund provides for the extension of aid programmes for enterprises and micro-enterprises, the extension of the Bilakatu programme, the programme for aid to enterprises, aid to the intensive gas industry, the postponement of rents in technology parks and polygons, aid for legal advice and programmes to support the social economy. I'm on it. Complementary aid to enterprises in the first sector, direct aid programme for the agri-farm sector, direct aid programmes for the fisheries sector and Handitu programme to promote investment in the expansion of enterprises in the first sector, additional aid to the commercial sector, consumer incentive programme and support programme for the retail trade sector. True and definite course. I hope that in these matters, Mr Soto, you will share them with this parliamentary group. It would be very hard to believe it wasn't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Counselor. He was right because, in the end, much of his intervention has been to re-read me – let us say – what he has already told me – even if with less time, then today he has had more peace of mind to be able to do so – the successive programmes that the Basque Government has put in place or was going to put in place, but of course he has not said a single word to me about taxation. He hasn't even told me about deflation. But, in any case, yes, totally according to the analysis and diagnosis that I was basically doing in my first intervention and that we have shared more than once in the exchanges that we have been able to have, that is the situation that has led us to the framework that we are in right now and that is so difficult to get out of, isn't it? And it is basically the problems in supply chains, the result of geopolitics, and, in this case, of Russia's illegitimate invasion of Ukraine and, in turn, how it is affecting the disposal of raw materials markets, how it is affecting that to energy and how it is affecting that consequently to the rise of inflation. In all that we agree. We also agree, probably without going into detail, on all the programmes that you have listed in much of them, because they are indeed in the line of generating a social shield and favoring citizens in terms of their protection and drawing – let us say – a very complex situation. But I'm not talking to you about that, as I said in my question. I am talking to you about the previously generated inequality and it is with regard to the inequality resulting from a tax system that benefits the most who have and harms... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... and it is in terms of inequality, the fruit of a tax system that benefits the most who has, and harms the least who has. You come to tell us that the possibility of putting in place all those programmes and plans that you have listed have to do with that countercyclical policy of saving for when they are wrong. We believe that what should have been done over the last few years is to put in place what is available, even when we are in a good mood, because we are able to raise more public resources through a tax system other than the one we are now, and therefore to strategically lead certain sectors that are at the moment, when economic crises come, the productive fabric generated by the leadership of the public, and if you even like it in coordination with the private sector, because it leads us to a situation with a greater capacity to deal with problems, but not to save money during the austerity decade to now say that we have money, and as they do now allow us to spend it, because we have that remnant, and we are going to launch it through certain public spending programmes. And, besides, what you don't want to talk about is that we would have even more money if we applied a tax reform in the sense that I'm thinking about it, and therefore we would have even greater capacity to do all those programs that you repeatedly talk about. With regard to deflation, which is in fact in line with the fact that money is in circulation, and let us say that this is basically the only positive element, in our view, with regard to deflation, that it is true that what benefits or promotes in macroeconomic terms is that people have more resources or more spending capacity, and therefore that benefits consumption. What happens is that it is not a fair initiative, because it benefits those who have the most, it is regressive, and those who have the least, it is applied to a lesser extent, obviously, because it will have less capacity to dispose of the money or savings in order to then be able to consume that savings in the productive fabric in the economy. And, therefore, deflation alone, per se, is not the solution. We believe that a debate on taxation should be discussed in depth, and I invite you to do so. We can do this before the end of this legislature, because by its logic, to the extent that we are going to face successive crises over the next few years, and also not being very clear what the horizon is of the crises that we are currently experiencing, what has to do with fiscal reform we will not enjoy any at any time if it were for you, except deflatation, some measure or patch very punctual, and also for who else you have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u39	Mr Soto, surely we will have to speak much more to clarify our contradictions and misunderstandings. We have never saved in times of austerity. In times of austerity it is very difficult to save. What we have used is additional indebtedness, greater than what was strictly necessary when spending rules allowed us to do so. The spending rules are now suspended and allowed, at other times they have not been. And when they are not suspended and must be respected, we respect them and you respect them in Madrid and you respect them (?) Everyone, there is no other question, because the rest, it is impossible to be in debt. Well, as I was saying, in order to cope with the complicated macroeconomic situation that is going through the world economy and that has begun to slow down the recovery of our economy, there is no need to make directional changes, on the contrary, when the direction is the right one must be alert, and hold the rudder firmly in order not to lose it. I have already moved you two weeks ago that I consider that the Basque tax system is a fair tax system and inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness, and that progressive tax systems such as the Basque tax system are necessary, albeit not sufficient, to develop inclusive growth policies. As I stress the same issue, I begin to worry if we understand each other, if you listen to me or if you understand me. And this concern extends by seeing that he mentions in his inquiry that I criticized the tax advertisements made by the Government of Spain. And indeed I criticized them with (?)hardness of forms. I specifically referred to the tax festival, and I'll tell you more, I'll do it again. Euskadi has a financing system, which is the Economic Concert, based on a bilateral relationship with the State. It was and is, it will be our public policy financing tool in Euskadi. And I hope you share with me that you must respect yourself. The modus operandi of the announcements made lacks respect for the Economic Concert and we are working to agree on the announced figures and land in Euskadi the resources that correspond to us. Let me also remind you, Mr Soto, that the distribution of income is only one of the four reasons for the support and establishment of taxes. The other three would be the maintenance of public spending, the promotion of greater efficiency in the economy, penalizing the activities that generate effects (?) and the mitigation of economic fluctuations, acting as automatic stabilisers. Therefore, we should not look at an objective as ambitious as maintaining inclusive growth, focusing exclusively on tax measures. You ask me, Mr Soto, about the measures proposed by the Basque Government to boost economic growth by protecting households. Fortunately, in addition to an adequate tax system, we have a basic core of public services and services related to the protection of people from risks and contingencies such as disability, poverty, unemployment or old age, as well as to the coverage of basic needs such as education or health, which we can call social spending, and which also contribute to generating impulsive growth. I am concerned, Mr Soto, that you refer to the fiscal competitiveness that I publish, I am going to say a body, people who are in the far right. That is indeed a contradiction that you use this data, a flagrant contradiction, too. Indeed, studies also conclude that the redistributive effect of social expenditure is greater than that of taxation in most European economies. As for the remnants, not having them, I insist, in public management is, in our opinion, public risk management. In 2022 we have used resources in health, education, social policies, housing, economic development for an amount... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... public risk management. In 2022 we have used resources in health, education, social policies, housing, economic development..., for an amount close to 860 million euros; it is not a smaller amount, Mr Soto. A very relevant amount to cover social, pressing and urgent needs. You have at your disposal in this Parliament our monthly budget implementation reports, which I understand you will know about. For any clarification I need, I am at your disposal anyway. If I ask you seriously at the time of these approaches you make to this government. The situation is very serious, and the situation demands this seriousness. True course, and definite. Thank you, Mr. Soto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectors to the president, about his extraordinary protagonism and information treatment in EIB News." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President. It is common to be daily informed of your presence in all the houses of the Basque Country, not only of yours, but of the middle of this government, which, more or less, we see the parade of many of the heads of this government now and then. It's clear, then, that fun's activity has too much weight and it's definitely marking it on the computer book, and that it's not just that, in some way, that EITB only plays the frame of a joke. Therefore the question to-day, this special question, which you apparently do not wish to answer, is peculiar to its rhetorical nature: Is it comfortable, Mr. Zupiria, with the obvious tendency to the government that EITB reports?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u43	The President, the President, the members of the Government, the members of the legislature. Mr. Estarnos, there will be almost one of the means which almost spread in our own community, which generally cultivate the affairs of this country. And it's a manifold offer of these media. Property, sometimes public, sometimes private. Some of them in Spanish, others in eucalyptic, and some in eulogies. Some, digital media, others analog, paper, website, Internet, radio, podcast, TV... Most of them are financed, assisted, or moneyed by public funds, by tax taxes paid by citizens represented in this legislature. This public expense makes it possible for us to have several means and information in our society, and to have a vast variety of editorial variety. This government will not give any opinion of the treatment which the Eascal media confers upon it, nor of the information given by some and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u44	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u45	Yeah. To refuse to give an opinion is even to give an opinion. And, indeed, there is a great variety in the communal Euscala sphere, but that does not happen in the EIB news, and that is the question today. And in EITB what happens is what counts as the parable of the cook and the birds; what tells Galeano. That a cook, one morning, gathered all the birds in his poultry: chickens, losers, geese, ducks, turkeys and chickens, and asked them what sauce they wanted to be cooked with. A humble chicken stood up as their spokesperson for all of them and told them that they did not want to be cooked; they did not want to be cooked in any way. To which, the cook said, "That is not in question." This parable sums up very well what happens in EITB, where there is a formula, where there is an inertia, where there is an established system that makes EITB's information agenda coincide daily, daily, with the communication needs of this government, of the Basque executive. All those EITB professionals, of whom we all recognize their professionalism, are served what is or should be news. And they can only choose the sauce they cook with. And when government news shows, that sauce is neither spicy nor bitter, generally. Porque que que que que no es noticiia lo establee el cocinoero, que son EIB's informative media manager, Director of ETB informatives and editors of different kinds. And they have not been chosen according to the criteria of professionalism. These have been the people of trust, because they are the people of the administration. And then they decide what is and what is not, what is news and what is not. And, for example, and by putting two last examples, two weeks ago, the De Miguel case becomes a Supreme Court case, and it turns out that for the Teleberri and Gaur Egun it is not newsable, it is not newsworthy. Or the same week last, and today we are dealing with the issue in this plenary, the high-speed train. Turns out the board member of the (branch?) confirms that it is not going to transport goods, and that is not news for the EITB communication group, when the great advocates of the high speed train for years has been one of the main justifications to bet on the greatest investment and infrastructure that has been made in this country. It's time for germatazzen dena herri Honetan. And I don't think you have to be either Sherlock Holmes to find out, or Einstein to understand it, because you yourself, Mr. Zupiria, now spokesman for the government, have been director of ETB, because the president of the PNV of the Euskadi Buru Batzar, Mr. Ortuzar, has been for years also... Laugh, Mr. Erkoreka, but that's so... He has also been the director of EITB for years, or the current director of EITB has been his advisor, his trusted staff, before becoming director of EITB. So, you don't have to be Sherlock Holmes to know what's going on in this country and what's going on with EITB news.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u46	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u47	Mr. Estarrona, there's a great discussion throughout Europe on public television, and generally the media. [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u48	Mr. Estarrona, there is a great dispute throughout Europe about public television, and in general about the conduct of the media, and also of the relations of nations, institutions, and political parties. We are politicians at most, and our opinions are concerned with the time and treatment we have given them. In the United Kingdom, the conservative governments have limited and demanded financial funding to the great BBC, because he's been opposed to it. The constant rifts of the sects of Spain's public Radio and television have left the model of RTVE-president, which seemed to have been well built. In Catalonia, too, the incidents have recently happened. The government which I regulate has decided that there will be no controversy with political parties about the system of our media, much less our public media. And in your way, whoever has something to say has this tribe to use the way you've done it, there's the EIB Administration Council and the Committee of EITB's Adventure in this legislature. This government, on the other hand, will endeavour to support and support, as well as to maintain, and maintain, that diversity which lies between the means of our community. To do this we will continue to support EIB's budgets, and, as far as possible and as the budgets allow, we will try to help with money the media that produce and consume the information that comes in here, to ensure multiplicity and support expansions, to support the survival of the media, to keep up the rest and youths, paper, digital, radio, and TV. And we'll have confidence in the good sense of professionals, on certain media and other grounds. And we won't ask anyone what sort of a deal he'll be making and how he'll treat the news. I was a little surprised at some of the things you said, and I remembered that a parliamentary in this parliament once said to me: "El que no sale en el Telenew no Exist." You've been using the opportunity this question gives you in some media that you get almost another minute. I hope you'll do me good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u49	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Louis Ignacio Gordillo, the popular group of Euscals, the member of the Ciudadans, made of economics and of the chief of the Ogas's department, had not been assigned to the building attorneys. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you very much to Mr Azpiazu and Mr Soto who, although not here, have made me feel like a whole lehendakari of the Basque Government who must remain in his siege, in his seat, sitting, patient, serious and almost imperishable seeming while other speakers take the turn of the word to establish criticism, make observations, etc., while he must remain still, because it is certainly not his turn, right? They bring forth in me the virtue of patience. And the truth is that, Mr Azpiazu, I really enjoyed your second speech to Mr Soto on a number of economic issues that have been raised and that is not the subject of this debate today. I really enjoyed your reply, except for some small question. I liked it very much, although I did not like the answers that it has been giving me for more than a year, a year and a half, on the subject that we are dealing with today and that has to do with the tenders that are declared deserted in the construction sector throughout Spain and, specifically, here, for us, in Euskadi. That is why, Mr Azpiazu, I ask you today: what measures does the Government intend to take to correct the high number of tenders which are declared deserted in the construction sector in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u52	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Mr Gordillo, indeed, this is another issue that is affected by the convulsive economic scenario that is affecting us. The consequences of economic turbulence also directly affect public procurement. If I have to correct an adjective that you have included in your question, as you speak of a high number of bids that are becoming deserted in Euskadi, and the data show that it is not. As I was saying, we are indeed in a situation where price increases in raw materials affect the construction sector. It would also add one more problem, and it is the lack of skilled labour. You know that this administration has little room for action, as price review is a basic matter by contract law. In other words, the autonomous communities can do very little about it, but we take the necessary steps. I'll explain. First, on 5 April, the Basque Government adopted the agreement approving the application of Title II of Royal Decree-Law 3/2022 of 1 March of exceptional measures on price review in public works contracts in Euskadi. This has, to a large extent, alleviated the difficulties for which the bidders decided to present themselves or not. Secondly, we are making a great effort to adapt the basic bid prices to those costs that companies are having to suffer. We are aware of the volatility of prices and these effects in the sector. I would like to let you know, Mr Gordillo, that this administration is also suffering the impact of inflation on expenditure, as the rise in prices is also directly affecting us. The impact of high inflation on public coffers is of considerable economic importance. As you see, it's a matter where we can hardly keep ourselves apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u53	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u54	Mr Azpiazu, according to the data of the employer, the truth is that in all Spain there have been deserts of the order of 2,000 tenders in public works, in civil works, between January and September of the year... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u55	Mr Azpiazu, according to the data of the employer, the truth is that in all Spain there have been deserts of the order of 2,000 tenders in public works, in civil works, between January and September of the year 2022. The number of open tenders has been increasing. By removing the bids that correspond to the State, as you know, in the case of Euskadi we are the third autonomous community, the third autonomous community by number of deserted bids. It may seem a small amount the fact that it is about 60, 65 million euros that remain to be tendered. The thing is, there's two things going on here. There are very important works that are pending, for example, the issue of courts of violence against women in the case of Bilbao or, for example, a certain road that passes near Llodio; or, for example, the extension work of Bilbao airport. But the important thing here, above all, is that these types of works and tenders affect small and medium-sized construction companies. And once again, Mr Azpiazu, as you know, it is the SMEs that are left unprotected. It is true, as you say, that in this matter it corresponds to the basic legislation of the State, and it is true that we have had three royal decrees laws that have been gradually modifying, but insufficiently, this issue for price adjustment. The famous rule of (...) et cetera, which would allow an update of prices. What is happening is that, Mr Azpiazu, I believe that the Basque Government needs to give an important response, especially because in our business fabric, particularly a fabric that feeds essentially on SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, these are going to be very important, these are going to be very important, we will need them more than ever to meet the challenge of implementing European funds. Yours of 2022, Mr Azpiazu, would be the investment budgets. If we do not have companies that are capable, that can be available to carry out these executions of the investments, we will hardly be able to achieve the objectives. The situation is worrying. That is why I asked you in August 2021, and you told me that, well, the price rise is true that it was unprecedented, but that you considered that the financial support programmes articulated by the Government were sufficient. I asked him again in February 2002 and he told me that he considered it appropriate. Do you still consider them appropriate, Mr Azpiazu, even though we are the third autonomous community that has declared deserts the most tender? Do you still consider that prices are adequate even if prices do not stop rising, prices of materials? And do you still consider, Mr Azpiazu, that they are appropriate even if this situation may put the implementation of European funds at risk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u57	Look, Mr. Gordillo, I'm going to give you the real data, the recruitment data. During the year 22 the Basque Government and its public sector have tendered 245 works files, of which they have been left deserted for lack of tenders 16. That is to say, 6.53% of the files that have been tendered. If we also take into account the 1,460 construction contracts awarded this year in the public sector, this percentage drops to 1,09. Let me show you a comparison with the year 19, when the percentage was 5.36%, with a total of 14 deserted files. As you can see, we are moving in very similar percentages. Therefore, while we must not deny that the global situation affects us and concerns us as with the rest of the public administrations, it is no less true that this Administration is making a great effort to alleviate the effects of this adverse situation, in this area and in the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García Together Podemos, a member of the Division of the Animals, made to the Chief Governor of the Public and Autogobernus of the Basque Publicty and Communications concerning the Law of the Instigation." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u59	Mila esker, mahaiburu andrea. Good morning, Counselor. "Euskadi, common good." I'm sure you've heard this phrase countless times. But does anyone remember the advertising campaigns of the Basque Government? Do we remember what they were? Do we have any ideas, do we have any memories? I doubt it, I doubt it will reach two or three that can be agreed upon. And the truth is that the Basque Government carries out 150 advertising campaigns a year, and there will be about 600 advertising campaigns throughout the legislature. A figure that's not deceptible at all. And given the force of persuasion that advertising has, there is an institutional advertising law that limits how to make this advertising. This law says who is to carry it out, the requirements and also the prohibitions of institutional advertising. And in its article 5.4 it says that advertising campaigns must make clear and clear who carries them out. So far we totally agree. The problem is when this last element is used to carry out a parallel campaign and that it intends to sell to the audience a falsehood. Because all the slogans per se are false. The slogans lie beyond the truth. I mean, they can't really prove true or false, since their truths are, as it were, metaphorical. And if this slogan of "common good" is inserted by the Basque Government in all its advertising campaigns it carries out, that slogan included in all its broadcasts is another covert and parallel advertising campaign far more powerful than the primitive campaign to which the slogan is attached. The slogans are a verbal form of proven effectiveness and it is disturbing that the Basque Government uses them so repeatedly. And in this repetition it is used to position an idea in the psyche of the users and, thus, influence the resolutions they have. The Basque Government's everything is fine, everything we do is fine, everything we do is good. And this part, this slogan, is contrary to Article 5.1, which prohibits campaigns from aiming to highlight management achievements. Because what is the common good for the Basque Government? I'm sure it's not the same as for us. We have it clear: for us it is the defense of public services. And, honestly, we do not believe that the policies implemented by the Basque Government in health, education, residence, energy have the same conception as we do. And that is why we also believe it is to make a spurious use of this expression. For a slogan to be effective it has to be repeated over and over again. That's how you get it to stay in the receiver's mind. Thinking through slogans... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... for a slogan to be effective it has to be repeated over and over again. That's how you get it to stay in the receiver's mind. To think by slogans is to make the citizen think in phrases made, to make the citizen think in artificial, insidious, and at all innocent prefixed structures. The slogan is perlocutive. In fact, it doesn't matter whether it's understood or not, the important thing about the slogan is to remember it and recognize it. And how many impacts it has, and 600 advertising campaigns have tens of thousands of impacts on citizens. Propaganda is a key factor in disseminating ideas, and the slogan at the end of the Basque Government's campaigns is an undercover method used by the Basque Government to send a message to citizens that has nothing to do with informing or disseminating content. As I do in the petition, in the explanatory statement of the Advertising Act it says that "the purpose must be exclusive in order to facilitate the exercise of rights, and that the purpose of advertising cannot pursue or conceal inappropriate objects". In our view, these slogans do cover up an inadequate target.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Gustavo, your time is up. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u61	Mr. President, chief of departments, chief of staff, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr. Angulo, in fact, I don't think you're right about this matter when you're entering the field with the regulatory of the 6/2010 law. However, it seems essential to me to place the matter well, and to find out what "two" or "auzolan" are, or at least what is not. I'll tell you. Law 6/2010. Well, Law 6/2010 establishes the legal regime for the institutional advertising and communication campaigns carried out by public administrations and their public sector, and defines them, clearly defines them. As for the expression "Euskadi, common good", "Euskadi, auzolana" in Basque refers, that is something different, it is different. It is a tagline, it is a literary expression that, in fact, accompanies all the campaigns carried out by this government, and that is part of its corporate identity. It is a matter of showing an inspiring argument that with a distinctive character for Euskadi identifies the essence and collective culture of an entrepreneurial, supportive society capable of working for the common good. An argument that, in addition, involves citizens by promoting and enhancing their own values. This, Mr Angulo, is textually reflected in the Governing Council agreement of March 2017, which approved this new tagline, which is the one that replaced the previous one, which will remember "Pertsona helburu, commitment to people". As to the use of thetagline "Bien común," it cannot be said either of them or of the law of 6/2010; nay, this law does not apply to it, because it is different from some. That's how the courts have interpreted it. Maybe the manual to use this communication tool can be completed by part of it in the manual, by part of it, by forming my description. A tagline, he says, is much more than a slogan, or climate. It is the literary expression that gives concrete expression to a proposal of value, and helps to reinforce the meaning of the brand. The tagline is above campaigns or slogans, since it develops in a synthetic way a proposal of value associated with the brand, an inspiring argument of emotional component that involves citizens reinforcing and enhancing their own values. It has been five years since the use of this corporate identity tool was approved. It is incomprehensible to me that at the moment you are going to question yourself, and you are going to question whether the Basque Government is strengthening the importance of working and collaborating in favour of the common good. To question a tagline that both in Basque and Spanish, appeals to values that must promote all public management, such as the defense of the general interest, solidarity or collective work. This Government is unequivocally betting on the Auzolan. You have shared it yourself (?) this very week an agreement on the law of RGI. We are a government with sufficient majority, but without complacency, with (?) the hand always extended to the agreement, to the collaboration, to the Auzolan, for the good of all and of all, for the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interretion, Muriel Larre Lasoa, Popular Group of Ciudadans... made of economic development, patience, and environmental manufacturing department." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u63	Good morning, Counselor. I bring this inquiry here today, because the neighbours of Urrunaga need solutions. They need to know if they're going to be able to live or live, start living in conditions. Goiain, what is Goiain, because it is the industrial estate of Legutiano located in the industrial estate of Goiain, municipality of Legutiano flanked by the Urrunaga and Ullibarri reservoirs. Apart from the location of the polygon, which comes very well explained on the website that has, moreover, sponsored the SPRI, because I have to say that the neighbors of Urrunaga denounced in the General Boards the smells, dust and noise that generate certain companies in this great polygon. And this unsustainable situation has moved to Ertzaintza, Ararteko, and the various environmental agencies. And it affects not only the surrounding villages, but also the livestock pastures and the Urrunaga reservoir, as we have said, from which they drink Bizkaia and Álava. That's why the neighbors claimed... they claimed the necessary involvement from us. The industry that generates these problems is that which recycles heavy materials, including cars and remnants of industries that leave plastic particles in the air. We have to recycle, of course. But the methods used or the way in which such recycling is carried out are neither sustainable nor collaborative in the... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...you have to recycle, of course. But the methods used or the way in which such recycling is carried out are neither sustainable nor helpful in leaving the carbon footprint zero. And it's... Let's see, just 15 kilometers from Vitoria, Green Capital... Well, this situation is striking. The official measurements that have been carried out in the environment where this recycling activity takes place have complied with the law, but those that have cost the Administrative Boards of Urrunaga and Goiain, have exceeded the limits of noise and pollution. At no time do we oppose the industrial development of Goiain, not even that developed by these recycling companies. But we do focus on the need to take necessary measures to alleviate the consequences of these neighbours. And this is not new, it's been suffering for ten years, and it's only been five years since the Local Council has been struggling to solve this problem. In May -- as you know -- there was a three-band meeting -- Basque Government, Local Council and companies -- where there was talk of encapsulating the activities of these companies in order to avoid suspended poles, smells and mitigate noises. And it seems that we chose the possibility – we say – of encapsulating the activities that caused discomfort. I want to say to you briefly, I want to ask you what are the reasons why your department has not already taken corrective measures to alleviate the discomfort that the Urrunaga neighbors are suffering from the activity carried out in this polygon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. And first, Mrs. Larrea, I'll start following. It's not true what you said. I'm going to show you something that's done. First, to clarify that the industrial estate of Goiain, located -as you said - in Legutio. It will develop different types of activities, which can be found, some of which are close to homes and which are also subject to integrated prevention and control regulations, which include the issue of pollution, and there are other controls which are subject to a different administrative regime. Assuming that it refers - as you said - to those who carry out activities, only to them, to those who carry out recycling activities, we are referring to four companies: Reydesa recycling, which uses fragmentation and segregation of metal waste; Deydesa 2000, which does crushing and segregation of metal waste, but also plastics; Refial Aluminium Refinery, which is dedicated to aluminium casting; and Aluminium Residues, which deals with the treatment of aluminium slag. Under the implementing legislation of the relevant environmental body, in this case the autonomous community, it is the competent authority to carry out the control of discharge emissions and also of waste deposits. And in that sense, the necessary inspections are carried out, as I will detail it. They are laid down in the Industrial Emissions Regulation, which takes place in Law 16/2002 of 1 July, mentions prevention, integrated control to be carried out in each of these facilities. Inspection visits are carried out or must be carried out within one year of the start of the activity. In addition, the period between two on-site visits has been based on an assessment of the risks of each of the corresponding facilities, and will in no case exceed one year in the facilities that pose those higher risks, and three years in which they pose minor risks. This is defined in the decree it develops in the law. But in addition to these inspections, which are scheduled, the environmental organ - i.e. the one for the department I am currently running - carries out unscheduled inspections of the facilities. In addition, monitoring activities have been carried out because of the receipt of complaints or complaints or because they have been requested by other public administrations. You are certainly aware of this data. Since 2015 - I will not go back any further - since 2015 the facilities - the four mentioned - have received the following inspections. Reydesa has received four scheduled visits; two not scheduled by emission warning, noise and odours; and five other documentary reviews and monitoring by warning or by measurements and verifications of monitoring plans. Refial has received five scheduled visits, one unscheduled and three revisions of documents - as previously stated - or notice-monitoring. There are six scheduled visits and seven unscheduled for emission warnings, noise and odours also in this case; and two document reviews. And Deydesa six scheduled visits and two documentary revisions. As a result of these inspections, remedial orders have been made and three sanctioning files have been opened. In relation to the specific condition derived, which may be derived from noise and emissions to the atmosphere, it should be indicated that the integrated environmental authorisation includes an environmental monitoring programme whose results should be referred to the department. And they have to be done on an annual basis. According to the information provided by the owners of these installations, there are five Deydesa noise reports in this body, 15 emission reports and three noise reports by Refial, 12 emission reports and three noise reports by Resal, and six emission reports and five noise reports by Reydesa. With regard to air quality in the environment - and always in the opinion of the inspections with regard to these emission sources - it should be noted that in the period 2021, i.e. last year a specific campaign was carried out with a mobile unit located in the environment to determine the concentration of some pollutants in the ambient air. Since the fixed cabins we have are located in Vitoria-Gasteiz, Agurain and Arrasate. And we found it interesting to place a specific unit in the environment. The campaign has been carried out in two measurement periods: between January and April, and between July and September 2021. And the results of these... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the campaign has been carried out in two periods of measurement: between January and April, and between July and September of the year 2021. And the results of these measurements, of the averages calculated from these data that have been measured in situ, indicate that the pollutants that have been measured, which are the usual ones, those that must be measured according to the norm, state that they are within the limit values in all cases, in all cases established in the current air quality regulations. And benzene, NO2, is measured, among other things, ozone, CO and particles in the air, among other aspects. About the noise. Act No. 37/2003 of 17 November 2003 on noise aims, as you know, to prevent, monitor and reduce noise pollution. In accordance with the above-mentioned standard, the municipalities are responsible for the preparation, approval and revision of noise maps and boundaries of the acoustic servitude zones. And therefore, it is, in this case in addition, since it does not exceed a municipal term, the municipal term that must deal with these matters. In the same Decree 213/2012 of 16 October of acoustic pollution of the Autonomous Community, it is established that these municipalities are responsible for the delimitation and approval of integrated acoustic areas or areas, and that, in addition, they must be... must be compatible with those foreseen in the municipal planning. In addition, with regard to the condition that companies have for this noise, the facilities are required to regularly submit noise controls carried out by registered environmental collaboration entities, and which must also be accredited by ENAC - it says explicitly for the temporary spatial sampling of environmental noise -. The environmental body, the department, is not accredited to perform acoustic checks, so between the checks carried out during the inspections, we must confirm that the checks carried out by the entities accredited by ENAC and which are as an environmental collaboration, as he commented, meet the requirements established, and that the result of these reports also determines that the compliance with the condition contained in the environmental authorization is accredited. In this regard, it should be noted that companies have been implementing measures to reduce noise in recent reports they have submitted, and that independent experts believe that acoustic emissions are in compliance, and that they have been correcting all the operations that have been taking place at some point. However, on 17 August 2022, the integrated environmental authorisations granted to (IDESA?) have been revised and amended. and a (READ?) for all the activity they were carrying out in that industrial polygon. Certain technical conditions have been laid down for installation to minimise or eliminate atmospheric and acoustic emissions. For this purpose, the closure of storage facilities and treatment facilities was determined. That's how it's determined. As I am aware, I believe it is important that the Commission's decision of 10 August 2018 setting out the conclusions on the best techniques available in the treatment of waste, in accordance with Directive 2010/75 of the European Union, and of the European Parliament and of the Council, set out the conditions applicable to all installations, and that there is no requirement whatsoever for the closure and storage of treatment facilities. However, they have been included in this integrated environmental authorization and are the result of improvement or intention to improve treatment. Right now the company has resorted to... the companies have resorted to this action, since they find their actions limited urbanistically due to lack of buildability and are totally incompatible with the current planning. But in the integrated environmental update they have been collected, and we must continue to work to improve the situation, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u67	In view, the department has taken steps to review and re-make an integrated environmental authorization, which was problematic. Anyone who has passed through Urrunaga has seen the dust accumulated in the bushes, we have seen how the cars accumulate. We smelled the smell of that area that forced the neighbors to keep the windows closed. Therefore, if the integrated environmental authorization already determines that there has to be an encapsulation of those storages of materials that can emit such substances, which is then deposited in the fields, or in the houses, or in the balconies or windows, well, it means that we are correcting the situation. Isn't that right, Mrs. Tapia? It seems to me that coming here and making us echo a demand, a disgust that citizens, the neighbors of Urrunaga, have, is important. And that's why I want to tell you that, well, we'll see, we'll see and we'll be controlling the situation of the neighbors, and how to improve their lives as soon as these performances are performed. And I hope it'll be soon. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u69	Thank you, Mrs. President. I think we need two different things. It's one thing to bring you here that some of the neighbors make protests and other things... It's another thing to say that these companies don't fulfill all that needs to be done. And that's not true. Companies now fill all regulations, be noise, be emissions, be counting, all things measured. And improvements go in. And besides, this is how things are set out outside, and the entities are measured, because they are external and... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... And improvements go in. And, further, they are thus set out outside, and the entities are measured by them, they are external and independent. Therefore, we are going to differentiate two things: one, the understandable protest of the citizenship of the environment, and two, the lack of compliance of companies. Companies are complying with all environmental authorizations they have and all requirements that have been implemented. Moreover, at the moment, in reviewing two of them for their integrated environmental authorisation, they have been imposed additional conditions, which I insist, from the European Union, with best practices, are not mandatory and are not collected. However, we try to improve it. Even so, it is necessary to be aware, as the companies in their resource collect, that it will depend on the municipality being able to modify the building capacity of these companies so that some of the activities that are introduced in them can be collected. So I think it's important to make the prevention of infection and noise in those places. And that's how we're doing it, and all the improvements are being introduced, from the business point of view and the fun of the fun, making all the inspections, doing the necessary and beyond, and trying to get some improvement into the quality of the air in the environment. Yesterday they mentioned the measurements in the whole Euskalia, about the quality of the air, and I think we're on our way to improvement. And on our side, all that is to be done will be done, in order that it may be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, the popular group of the Basques-Ciudadan members have made to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, about the projects that URA will repair the floods that have been in the last few years." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u71	Thank you very much. Look, at the beginning of this year, after the floods suffered in Álava by the rains, by the rise of the rivers, the director of URA delivered this Project of Plan of Risk Management of Floods of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to those neighbors, who have suffered from the floods of their homes. We are talking about neighbors of Aztegieta, Gereño, Gobeo, Mendoza and Uribari-Dibbiña. All of them suffered last year, in December, floods that forced them to leave their homes, some of them for several months. Then, looking at this year's budget and budgets of 2022, we saw that there were items destined for the realization of these projects, that these projects were phased out, but yet they have not yet been tendered. So, what we want to ask you is: Does your department intend to carry out projects that had already entered an economic item by URA in the current budget year, in order to avoid the floods that have been suffered by the various peoples of Álava? I'll tell him the rainy seasons are coming back soon, and these neighbors are afraid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u73	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Larrea, you have a habit of stating in your questions things that are not true. At this moment, the URA Agency is either running, or already executed, a number of initiatives in Araban, a number of villages, and, indeed, all the games, as I say to you this year's games, are either executed or executed. So it's not true what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u75	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...budgetary items. There were a number of performances, for example, about ten of the Zadorra River, at the height of Aztegieta, which have not been performed. I have seen reports dated 2017, 2020, to perform in Iurre, Aztegieta, and nothing has been done. You're telling me that almost all the bidding games are already in place and that the performances are being made, December is coming, the floods are coming, and these neighbors have not seen any kind of performance that was actually described in this project.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, to answer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u77	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I'll tell you what. The work on the replacement of the Altzarrate bridge in Llodio has been completed. The works of hydraulic conditioning and environmental improvement of the San Juan stream channel in Llodio are under way, in addition to the actions of defense against floods of the Batán and Zapardiel rivers in Vitoria-Gasteiz. Defence works have been awarded against the floods of the Nervión River as they pass through Llodio City Hall; all these actions are in the plan. In addition, structural measures appear only in the municipality of Vitoria-Gasteiz, but in them, through the agreement signed with the city council in 2012, investments have already been made for more than seven and a half million euros. Flood defence actions have been carried out on the Zadorra River: first, the Abetxuko bypass, to have an alternative for all supply lines supplying water from the Araka reservoirs to Abetxuko, and, in addition, the bridge in Abetxuko has been increased, giving more hydraulic capacity and avoiding all those floodable elements. The rehabilitation of the ancient bridge of Abetxuko has been carried out. In phase two, moreover, in this defense of floods on the Zadorra River, the improvement of the avenues under the Gamarra Mayor Bridge has been carried out. In addition, a motorcycle has been built along the left bank of the Zadorra River, which has as its dual purpose, on the one hand, to protect urban areas and, on the other hand, to eliminate the acoustic and visual impact of road traffic. Although in the deal... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... dual purpose, on the one hand, to protect urban areas and, on the other, to eliminate the acoustic and visual impact of road traffic. Although in the agreement with URA and Gasteiz in phase three we did not have any kind of action, we have also collaborated with the City Council to elaborate the project that has to be carried out in the most complex area, where the Department of Road Infrastructure of the Foral Diputación de Álava also has to work and act. In the case of phase four of Zadorra, the drafting of the project has also been completed, and the relevant work will be carried out in the near future to begin the execution of the works. But, in addition, it has participated in the drafting of the following projects that will then be executed by the City of Vitoria in the rivers of the south: conditioning of a section of the Olarizu river located upstream of the PERI 11 to the area of enamels, works of adaptation of the Ali underground in the streets Jacinto Quincoces and Alto de Armentia, works of derivation of the river Errekatxiki to the river Errekaleor, and the drafting of projects of defense against the floods of the Batán and Zapardiel rivers in Vitoria-Gasteiz. This latter project, moreover, has been closely collaborated between the City Council and the URA Agency, and, moreover, we have completed the works from the Agency. Therefore, we cannot say that we are not carrying out the necessary actions, but on the contrary, each and every one of the planned actions is being carried out. It is no less true that phase three in the Zadorra area requires a complex work, but that at the moment it is already agreed for its realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, about the state of professors who have retired from 2012 to the famous Eukadin teaching of Eukadin." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselor. I am sending you today a question on a matter which has a long history in this Parliament, but which remains unresolved and which is becoming a little more complicated every day. Since 1 January 2012, some 3,900 retired teachers have not received the early retirement benefits agreed with the Department of Education of the Basque Government in the Regulatory Agreement for the Working Conditions of the Non-university Teaching Staff of Euskadi. In June of this year, the Vitoria Court of Dispute No. 1 ratified the right of 2,632 pre-retired teachers to receive their compensation. However, instead of complying with the agreement, applying the sentence and paying the amount owed to these people and putting an end to their long-standing calvary, the Basque Government, surprisingly, has decided to appeal the sentence and prolong the conflict. That is why I am obliged to ask you today what the criterion is, what are the reasons why the Basque Government has decided to appeal the judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u81	Yeah. Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Gil jauna, the judgement handed down by the Provincial Court of the Dispute-Administrative that you cite has been appealed to the Chamber of the Dispute of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country for violating the jurisprudence handed down by this Chamber for identical claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u83	Mr Councilman, we are faced with a problem which, after ten years, has worsened, to become a real calvary for those affected, as I suppose you know. Persons with whom an agreement was signed, by which if they retired early, they would have certain conditions, and to whom the Basque Government has been taking charge successively. It could be argued whether that 2010 agreement was good or not, whether the Government in the midst of the crisis could afford it or not, but the truth is that the only irrelevant thing - because it doesn't matter what everyone thinks - is that it was signed; that some people made a decision that affected their lives radically, with supposed conditions, on the basis of supposed conditions; that with the signing of that agreement a right was acquired, and then the Government has failed to comply with what it signed in a shameful way. In short, we are talking about an elementary issue of justice and honesty. I've been taught since I was little that what's signed is always done. If they consider that it should not have been signed, they might have thought about it sooner, but now it's only time to comply. A noble person - and the Basque Government should be - in no way fails to cope with what is signed and what is committed. That's what your department should teach children; and it's wrong to be able to do it if your behavior says otherwise. And it is that you have again appealed the sentence, in an exercise of incredible obstinacy. The judiciary and parliamentarians who have been received by the Government on this subject are well known. But suppose that on this occasion you get away with it. Let us imagine that, as far as it is concerned, what you are doing is not considered illegal. But their performance, in no case, can be neither ethical, nor just, nor noble. Beyond legal technicalities, what we are demanding is common sense. Let's remember: some teachers, after decades of public service, decide to retire because they are offered conditions and then fail from the government. It's outrageous. With cases like this it is not surprising the profound discredit with which citizens (...) politics. Now you have an opportunity; on the 25th of this month the Governing Council will approve the budgets, on the 28th you come to Parliament, it is time for you to commit that this year you will not include the suspension clause of the agreement. That is the first step towards nearly 4,000 teachers being able to solve their problem - it is what they are waiting for - and, from there, the agreement can be put back into practice. Negotiate a payment plan and solve the problem. It's justice. Nobleness compels.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Your word is yours, Mr. Bilar. [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...negotiate a payment plan and solve the problem. It's justice. Nobleness compels.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u86	Gil jauna, as I indicated in my previous speech, there are judgments both in the provincial administrative courts and in the High Court of Justice in this case. Specifically, judgements 428 and 465/2014 of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which refers to several decisions of the Constitutional Court. Where it is literally pointed out, I open quotes, "the suspension of voluntary retirement premiums whose date of effect is after 31 January 2012 derives literally from Law 6/2011", which, as you know, is that of the budgets for the financial year 2012. And I'm still inside the quotes: "it's the legal precept that sets the suspension." The legal precept. And he does it by virtue of his superior hierarchy in the source system. Even, judgements 38 and 39/2017 of the Court of Administrative Litigation No. 6 of Bilbao, relating to voluntary retirements in 2013 - an exercise for which there was no ad hoc budgetary law - have been revoked respectively by judgements of 16 October of 17, both 465 and 466 of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, underlining the full implementation for the 2013 exercise of the suspension regime of the Budgets Act 2012. In this way, and as the various judgments argue, a rule of law, such as the above-mentioned budget law, has a superior hierarchy over any regulatory agreement and, therefore, the suspension it provides for must prevail over the provisions of that agreement. In the light of the previous rulings of the courts, according to our legal services, there is therefore no estimate of the claim made, as there would be a violation of the normative hierarchy. Furthermore, in addition to the justification of the measure adopted, harmonization with the criteria already applied by local authorities as dictated by the Supreme Court should be considered, and which has highlighted with insistence the lack of legal coverage and justification of the retirement premiums - which are not indemnities - of local authorities. Specifically in this regard, judgement 459/2018 of 20 March of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Supreme Court established the criterion that retirement premiums are remunerations other than those provided for by the basic State legislation for employees of local entities. Therefore, Mr Gil, according to the judgment cited above, this type of incentive modifies the pay system of the civil servants of the local entities without legal coverage and justification. This criterion has been repeated in Supreme Court judgement 347/2019 of 14 March, 1.183/2021 of 29 September, 344/2022 of 16 March and 421/2022 of 5 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of the steps the Board of Education will make the Board of Education destroy the quotas of the Educational School." Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u88	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, Chief of the Union. On April 7th, we took a concrete and important commitment to this parliament. The Board of Education confirms the actual freeance we said to eliminate school quotas. And today, I'd like to know what steps your department will take to guarantee that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u90	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Mr. Arrese. The Board of Education is engaged on the 7th of April, as you have mentioned, with all points of the consent signed by the majority of this Chamber. On the 20th of June, 2022, there is an engagement to make an appointment to inform you about the activities you have mentioned in justification of the Board of Education, and to give you every year's track of them. Furthermore, as to the guarantees of freeness, we have been clearly received in the 34th article of the law of education. In the section. And he says: the schools financed by public funds will not be able to receive any sum or sum of funds from families for the sake of their free instruction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u92	Thank you, Chief. I think we should go faster with this concrete measure. The laws of the Public School of Euscalia, and the decrees which followed, plainly declare that instruction is free and of quality. And we do it for it. But today we know that teaching for many families is not yet going completely. Transport is to be paid, the dining room is to be paid, you have to collect different school fees, a share in the parent association, you have to pay out-of-school activities, and, after all, education is not entirely free. And we must add to this, that in the middle of our education system, half of these schools, we must collect quotas for basic instruction, and the quotas that are still illegal. Besides, we have just heard that a study which has been fired has told us that the average of the stocks in the Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia are 160 to families, in some cases the Basque families must pay a fee to 536 euros. We all know that half of the schools in the Basque education system charge quotas. And these quotas, which are allocated in some cases - which we also know - to the particular profit of the holders and in other cases to different educational projects, are totally against equal opportunities. And we also know that it is one of the main reasons that generates segregation. We want to say, and we also reiterate today, that at Euskal Herria Bildu we are totally against the collection of quotas. And we don't shake our wrists to say that we don't share quotas for compulsory education. And we want... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... against the collection of assessed contributions. And we don't shake our wrists to say that we don't share quotas for compulsory education. And we also want to subscribe to his words. You said a few weeks ago: "Concerted centers have seen increased funding, and that has to be reflected in the pockets of families." And that is what we want to bring to this Parliament today. Quotas have to disappear now. That is why, in the educational agreement that we approved in this Parliament last year, we made a firm commitment, which was to make quotas disappear and guarantee total gratuity. And to that end, we have made a commitment to four very concrete measures. Family and school seem to us confused. We've agreed to the education agreement, what's the matter with that coquette? Do the schools charge fees? Do families have to pay for these quotas? It seems to us that there is a certain point of confusion. And besides, as has been agreed on in the treaty of education, the funding of the concerts has been raised, but this must be a direct result in the family pockets, and the quaots must therefore disappear. That's why I want to make apology for these four commitments to education agreement. The first thing we committed to, the commitment to identify the real cost of the school square. The second engagement was to activate the control mechanism of the control, and there is the remarkable role of inspection. The third measure we took was that he would either allow the co-bros of the supplemental activities or be under the eye of the division. And the fourth point, which we took in this arrangement of education: the finances of all schools, which have the public subjugation, and consequently of all that are founded, must have been attended by public auditorial auditoria, in order to make the traffic of money public in a clear manner. So, before and as soon as possible, we invite you to apply this to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u94	Mr. Arrese. As a matter of fact, we have to use public means to give free instruction as a system of education. This is also determined in the same way by the 34th article of the pre-printing law. p. We know it's a complex process, and we want to establish faith, commitment, and a field of response. For this reason, when we have already adopted it by degrees, we have developed habits in order to adapt it to what the law has established. Steps on the commitment to principles of freeness, July 19, 2022, the United States Council agreed to update a number of concepts of economic agreements. The first is to update and increase the working and keeping component. Secondly, these concepts have increased and increased the number of the supplementary elements of the professors, such as the representative, the antiquity, the oriental and counsellors. Finance, third, has been financed by special educational and educational help programs. The fourth, according to the scope of the inclusive school, the class of open education will disappear and the figure of professors of therapeutic pedagogia will be financed. It's the object of all this that all schools have to provide a fund for the cost of effective education service. Based on the confidence and co-operation of public funds. As we are the directors of education, we believe that these improvements must be directly affected by our students and families, as you have mentioned, and as we have mentioned in public. And we've got the resources to the right control of the treaty regime so that there won't be too much financial conditions, so we'll see for the last few days... As you've been able to see. I'd like to take advantage of these moments also, and, taking advantage of this question, as you know yesterday's term for the end of society and of the operators in the presence of the law. (... e.g. Finally, we've got 35 proposals, and now we're looking at them all, hoping they'll help us improve their initial text. The ultimate goal is, and I know that you have the same end, looking at the years that come for our society, it is the strong and effective law of education. We'll all be sure to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the staff of the Podemos-IU members of the staff of the Board of Education to guarantee their dignity when students go to school." Mrs. González, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u96	Thank you. Good morning, Chief of the Union. And continuing on the previous thread, we've known the school for a long time. and yet they have long been charged. And more expensive than ever this year. What a mechanism has the Board of Education set up in order to ensure the complete social education of students?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u98	Mrs. Gonzalez, Mrs. Gonzalez. As the Board of Education which cares about this subject, we must use public resources, necessary learning, whether it be expressed as free or free, so that they may be free in all the schools which serve in the Basque Education. As I have just indicated in my previous speech, this is reflected in the agreement of 7 April and has thus been transferred to the Preliminary Education Project. At this point, we must highlight what is contained in the basic regulations adopted with the support of your group in Congress, in relation to article 88, paragraph 2, which speaks of guarantees of freeness, precisely, where it says: "Educational administrations will provide the centres with the necessary resources - and we cannot forget this - to give effect to the freeness of the teachings that this law... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... "... educational institutions will provide the necessary resources – and we cannot forget this – to implement the free teaching that is declared free of charge in this law, and will put in place measures to ensure that the socio-economic situation of students does not create a barrier to access to complementary activities and school services". And it follows: "Educational administrations shall monitor compliance by educational institutions with this article". Badakigu prozesu konplexua of her, éka ikastetxeekiko konfiantza, konpromiso and were tzunkidetasuneko sparru beat nahi dugu. Therefore, we are developing the actions that will allow us to progressively adapt to what the law will determine after its adoption, and to the precepts of the basic regulations. In this procession, the first step in which to update the economic backends in the regime of the treaty, which was admitted in July, is the end: that all schools should provide the cost of the effective expenditure of education based on the trust and accord of the management of public funds.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u99	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Gonzalez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u100	Since the 85th century, the collection of school fees has already been considered illegal. In addition, this was established by the basic legislation and confirmed by the Concerts Decree of 87. Now, since the legal prohibition was established, it's been almost 40 years. The school collections are stronger than ever in our country. And, in addition, a recent study mentioned above has shed light on the reality that is well known to the entire educational community. It is that the quotas have increased by 60% compared to the year 2020, and mothers and fathers pay an average of 160 euros per month per obligation in the concerted centres. And it is not surprising how the grant to those awarded for this course is greater than ever: 680 million euros. Y, a la par, los centros concertados, audados la cuantía de las cupotas para las familyes. Especially if we consider that seven months ago we signed it twice in the education agreement, one of which, every purchase practice will go away, and that the bibarern is to guarantee that education's actual activity is due to the Eucharatoria. And with the literal reading of the agreement, it is obvious that the government at the moment is not fulfilling it at the moment. And, in addition, it continues to give money to the concerted centres, while they remain unpunished by the levying of quotas. It is unpunished in the railway station, ezin dudu aipatu gabe utzi Villabonako Zubimusuren Ikastolaren kasua. An ikastola that has received public funding for two classrooms that has had empty. Was it Zein den Sailak Arazori emandako konponbidia? Dirua itzultzeko epe bat, besterik ez. And it's amazing what's happening with the public money. Baina kuotetara goaz berriro. Now, we still have no definition of the Basque public education service, where the public and concerted institutions that meet the requirements are going to be equal. But today, however, the department has not managed to eliminate quotas, when they are precisely one of the most significant elements that differentiates public education from private education. And it's not a good basis for this paradox to define a service. Hezkuntza Sailak ezin du erralité hori alde batera utilten jarraitu. Ikuskapen indartu bat behar dugu ezkutuk kuotak kobrantza ikusarazteko. And if a control mechanism is no longer in place to eliminate these quotas, the Department of Education will be complicit in the misuse of public money made by the concerted centres, and above all, will not be guaranteeing gratuitousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u102	First, since 2020, the concerted centres have not raised their quotas by 60%. Second question, they do not have on average the agreed centres 160 euros. Third question, Zubimusu has been applied to him what the law itself says, no more or less; as it does not fit otherwise, of course. Gonzalez andrea, Ganbera honetako gehiengoak joan den apirillaren 7an synatutako akordio programatikoan doakotasun bermearekko konpromiso eta jarduketak jasotzen dira. Akordio horren jarduketen chronogram joan den ekainaren 20an partakatu nuen Hezkuntza Batzordearekin. And we are facing a progressive process in which all centres must be provided with the resources necessary for the provision of the educational service on equal terms. I repeat Article 88, which you also approved in the Council of Ministers, and voted for it in the Congress of Deputies; that is, those who say that the centres will be provided with the resources necessary to make education free of charge. My first question now would be whether that is so. Now we've shared with your team the accuracy of the activities, precisely the 10th, 11th, 12th, and 12th position of this agreement. And that's all you've agreed to. We presented ourselves at June with the calendar, and confirmed our engagements with all the arrangements specified in it. We have a sheet of trajectory and some action to be developed. And we will continue to take steps in order to provide the necessary funding to cover the cost of the effective delivery of the educational service by all the centers that provide the educational service in our community from the confidence and co-responsibility of the management of these funds. As a matter of fact, as a manager of the Education Administration, we have resources to the proper control of the regimes, in order that there may be no excess of financial conditions. And that's how it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interrament, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EHGGGGregated to the planetion, Housing and Commander of the Transport Corps, about the plans of the Euscal Y "Euscal." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u104	Good noon, everyone. Good morning, everyone. I don't know if we realize, but our teenagers didn't know a world without Euscal Y's work. The year of September was now 16 years old from the beginning of the work. It's amazing, 16 years old. And we've known a new delay for the last few days... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... 16 years from the very beginning of the work. It's amazing, 16 years old. And we've known a new delay for the last few days. The chief physician of the Arriolas here, a year ago, said at the end of the 2026, at the beginning of 2027, and the Spanish representative has told us that the next date is 2028. And then 2028, all going well and all of Euskal Y's going to end, but it won't be the entire Basque Y, because there won't be solutions for the capitals, there won't be a connection to the Judria, and there won't be a new platform that's going to connect the Astir and Irun. So, to make a part of Euscala Y, it's all right on the way. Klaro, and we'll have to talk later on about Euscala Y, because Euscal will be an island. It's called "Euscal Island," Chief Arriola. For the bond of the north is uncertain, the connection to Santander is uncertain, the connection to Navarre is uncertain, and is uncertain. So we'll have a very nice Esscal island, as we said in 2028, all on our way well. For it must be said that the connection of the connection has been new in recent months, and that most of them have been rather shameful, to determine the connection of the North Basque Country, or to France, the State of France has already said that it is not a privilege to make the Vice-Renda. It's a priority for him to make the Bordeaux-Tolosa. Watch out, Chief Arriola: Toulouse, Octitanian, not Gipuese. Klaro, and he says that if you do it, you can do the Bordeaux Hernda, you can start the constructions at 2037. So, if everything's all right, there can be a connection in 2045. It's based on a lie that Euscala Y's main foundation is to have a connection with the European high-speed train network. Bullshit. It's a connection to Santander. It wasn't until very soon that they talked about this connection. We were told about the South Railway in the Union, and we've been talking about it for years. And it was a connection which was only necessary for merchandise, to carry goods to the port of Bilbo, without passing by the Saints and Portugal. That was also a lie, because suddenly, in March, this year, Revilla appears with the Spanish minister, and they say that a train of high speed will follow the train to Santander. And be careful, now comes the best. There'll be railway stations, Castron and Laredo. O sera, we have been told that stations can't be found in a Toulouse, like the gym, but now they've had to swallow the works, or in a Durango, they've had to swallow the works, but they're not going to have any connection, they can't take a high-speed train, but we can't afford it now at Castron and Lardo. I don't know if this is any more bullshit or improvisation or both, probably. The connection of Navarre has also been new, for this lordship from 2001 said that he would link down to the corridor of Euskal Y and Navarre. On the sactorial plan of 2021, it is true, there were three different alternatives; And nearly all three got together-it's not exactly round the lake. And with this logic it may be supposed that there may be a station at that crossroads, can it not? Euskalka Y and Navarre at the intersection of the corridor. The problem is that what has been in force from 2001 to 2018, we suddenly know that Spain publishes an informative study in 2018, and tells us that there is another alternative, and that it is much better, and that what comes from Alsau and Gasteiz is that the main effect of the multikcriteria analysis was technically the best solution. And that's why the Minister went out, saying that Euskalka Y and Navarrei would follow the corridor from Alsasius and Gastheiz, and from the sea, as this worshipr has defended for years and years. Another lie, another slipper, as you would call it, but one more thing that has been promised for years and years, and will not be done. And you'll tell me: "It's not chosen yet." Careful. Well, you said there'd be a meeting before summer, three orchestras, funk, Navarre government and Spain before summer, and that's where you'd decide to get the connection. But that meeting hasn't arrived, Chief Arriola. That meeting hasn't arrived. And all of a sudden, in September, the government of Navarre and the Spanish Government appear, we don't know where it was, and we don't know where it was, and these two institutions have decided where to get the corridor of the Basque Y and Navarre, because they've decided to take a high-speed train from Iruña-Alstura. And though you go on in public, it does not remove the bond of the sea from it, I think it is better observed by a scheme. Because, clarro, Alsau's here. There were two possibilities in the informative study, and only Alsau... he's alone in the Gastian alternative. So you're denying reality. To deny reality, because reality reveals that in years and years people have lied. And you've done the same thing with the relationship between Burgos and Gastesians. For years and years you've told us that the goods would be carried at high speed, and it was a lie. And here you denied reality, because in 2018 Spain Spain said it couldn't be, you said that on high-speed trains the goods couldn't get to Euskal Y, you said it might be an injection, it wasn't true, that you'd keep fighting for it, and you had to ask EH collected a question, and you finally wrote it down and you agreed that the goods won't come from Burgria on a high-speed train: They'll come from the traditional railway line. We think that was a very great lie, because, in part, the two principal arguments you've ever used to defend Euskal Y, one of which was that we had to make a connection with Europe, and we're seeing... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... The two principal arguments which you have used to defend Euscala Y, have been one of those which must be connected with Europe, and we see that France has no interest in being so. And on the other hand, you have told us that he was not alone to carry passengers, but that he would do well to carry the goods. And now it's proven that it's been a lie too. And nothing happens here. So we're in the mood to find out what's going on in front of this disaster that's going on with the World Series. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u105	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, in just over a year and a half some twenty initiatives related to the high-speed train have been presented in this House, of which at least 14 carry the EH Bildu seal. Anyone might think that you have a great interest in the development of this infrastructure, and that what you intend with your efforts is to push it to become a reality as soon as possible, but it is clear that you are not going in this direction. Although the Basque Y is a key project that guarantees the continuity of the Trans-European Railway Network of the Iberian Peninsula. In order not to like anything this infrastructure has a real obsession with it. I don't know why. There's a step from hate to love, isn't there? First of all, it must be made clear – once again – that this is an infrastructure of general interest. And this means that the responsibility for its design, development, financing, implementation and management lies not with the Basque Executive, but with the General Administration of the State; that is, with the Government of Spain, which is acting simultaneously in several autonomous communities. In Euskadi, the Basque Government's commitment to the development of the high-speed train is total. So much so that - as you know - we are intervening directly in the execution of part of the works. And the origin of this intervention is based on the various management commissions since 2006 and has always been motivated by the purpose of expediting its implementation. Currently our department has already completed through the public body Euskal Trenbide Sarea the construction of the platform in all sections of the Basque Y in its passage through Gipuzkoa except for the second phase of access to Donostia that runs between Hernani and Astigarraga, the new station of Atotxa and the civil work of the station of Ezkio. The forecast we manage is that both the Hernani and Astigarraga sections and the Atotxa station are completed within 2024 and 2025. These are works of extraordinary complexity. The Hernani-Astigarraga's greatest difficulty is the obligation to execute it respecting the regular services of the Madrid-Irun line, which run parallel to the work area, especially the end part of the viaduct. Work in Atotxa, for its part, is being carried out at different stages, so that a temporary double track is always operational. This will allow us to put the station in service temporarily before the end of the year and release the necessary area to continue with the works on the west side and undertake, among other works, the construction of the new station in the place that now occupies the current one. As far as the Ezkio station is concerned, we have completed both the civil works and the urbanization of the accesses to the lack of relays and the remaining equipment and installations will be carried out at the time of their start-up. But, in addition - and as you know - we are working to speed up the entry of the high-speed train into the cities of Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz. Throughout this legislature, and despite the fact that both projects are still under information study, we are taking very significant steps. In this respect, we have agreed on two cooperation protocols which establish the channels for proper coordination of the work that will enable the urban integration of railways in the two capitals. In fact, the protocol for the impulse of the arrival of high speed to Vitoria-Gasteiz, signed between the Ministry of Transport, the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the Basque Government, has already allowed Adif to bid and award the basic project of the Arkaute knot and the underground integration in the Gasteiztarra capital. In addition, the protocol establishes a future commission of the Government of Spain for the execution by our department, both of the non-rail works of the station of the street of Dato and of a part of the knot of Arkaute, which will be formalized with the definition of the constructive projects. The Bilbao Protocol, signed in this case by the Government of Spain, the Municipality of Bilbao and the Basque Government, also provides for the execution on our part of the work that does not involve a railway condition in the underground station of Abando. And we hope that, as in the Alavesa capital, we will be able to make progress in the drafting of the projects, as long as the processing of the information study and its declaration of environmental impact are resolved. At the same time, we have already completed the administrative processing of the management order for the execution of the section between Zaratamo and the centre of Bilbao in the terms agreed with the Ministry of Transport, because we are already in a position to sign it. So far our direct responsibility for the high-speed train as it passes through Euskadi. In his interpellation he was interested in the connections of the high-speed train with the rest of the autonomous communities and with France, asking what the Basque Government intended in relation to the links of the Basque Y to the outside of the autonomous community. And I'm going into it. The connection with France will be made through the Astigarraga-Irun stretch. As you know, this is a stretch that is being carried out by Adif and which consists of the implantation of a third lane or wire on the track to enable the high-speed train circulation. The work blocked for several years as a result of the bankruptcy of the contracting company, was resumed at the beginning of this year and has a period of execution of 34 months, so it is expected to be completed at the beginning of 2025. With regard to the link between high speed on French soil, we are well aware of the lack of involvement of the Welsh Government, both us and the European Commission. I'm not going to speculate on the reasons behind this lack of... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... of the lack of involvement of the Welsh Government, both us and the European Commission. I am not going to speculate on the reasons behind this lack of interest, but it is a well-known situation in the Atlantic Corridor of the Trans-European Transport Network which, of course, generates concern. The European Union itself has on many occasions urged the neighbouring country to speed up the work to link with Spain through Euskadi, among other reasons, because it considers the Madrid-Vitoria-Paris axis strategic on the European rail map. Even so, high-speed trains, freight and passengers will be able to continue to travel on French soil, since in the neighbouring country the railway lines are operating in international width, as you well know. You also know that the connection with Navarra is a work of state ownership and that it continues to be studied technically by the Government of Spain to decide the best link option: Ezkio or Vitoria-Gasteiz. Last September, it was decided, at the request of the Government of Navarre, to deepen the hydrogeological study of the option of Ezkio- Itsaso, to have a better environmental assessment of this alternative. In this respect, my department's position is well known: we must reach a consensus solution between the parties, taking into account a multi-criteria analysis: technical, environmental, economic and social. Euskadi's connection to central and southern Spain is guaranteed, since the Government of Spain has recently launched the section between Burgos and Valladolid and has bid on the construction projects of the main section between Burgos and Vitoria-Gasteiz. You have made reference to the fact that this last section, contrary to the Basque Y, whose layout is mixed - that is, which admits in the same way the passage of goods and passengers - is going to be exclusive for passengers. That is true, but it is not the only one, nor is it a strange case, since neither the Burgos-Valladolid section – already in operation – has been designed for the passage of goods. And that does not mean, as he wishes to imply, that Euskadi becomes an island or that the goods that pass through our territory cannot circulate when they leave the Basque Country. You know, like me, that existing lines of conventional width can be conditioned so that trains with different widths run or, even, that there are already trains that incorporate mechanisms to adapt to the different widths of tracks on the lines they run through. By the way, the design of the road, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, is the power of the owner of the infrastructure, that is, of the Government of Spain in this case. And they are public projects that are known, practically, from the very beginning, and are submitted to public information so that whoever has an interest in it will make the appropriate allegations. And the informative study of the high-speed train Burgos-Vitoria was raised to public information in January 2018. Since then, more than four years ago, the characteristics of the line are known, including those of which it is intended for passengers. Therefore, in the report of allegations issued by the Basque Government in March 18, it is pointed out that, in order to give continuity to the Atlantic Corridor of goods in international width, it is necessary to insert a third thread or other form that achieves that width between Burgos and Vitoria-Gasteiz in the railway line for double via Madrid-Hendaya. In this way, the conventional line - and I read textually - would remain in operation as a mixed, Iberian and UIC network for the traffic of goods, and it is requested that the new tracks also guarantee Arasur railway accessibility in international Iberian width, both to the north and to the south of the railway corridor. As you can see, the Basque Government is doing its duty both in the works it is carrying out directly and in those undertaken by the Government of Spain through the coordination mechanisms established between the two administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u108	That's enough. That's enough. The Urkullu said it was an innocence not to go from the stock to the Gastize. Then Orziar said that Euskal is a Red Y. Then Aburto said that the people, the citizens, are clever, and that all delays are taken with the pirates. You, Chief Arriola, said the dates are calculated with the heart and not with the head. And now you tell EH Collect that this is an obsession for us. O se, the most expensive infrastructure in the Basque Country History is an obsession with EH Collector. Klaro, our job is not only government, but also to control it. And this is having a non-control, Chief Arriola. These graces are not funny anymore. They've never had it, but right now people are having a very bad time and it'll get worse and worse. The inflation is already 10,3%, rainy is 2,66 and it's going up. People are going to have such a bad time, and people don't understand how we're still doing, how you keep throwing millions and millions into this infrastructure, an island that will be an island in this infrastructure. How much have we spent so far? Two billion Euros were thrown out of the gym branch. In the branches of the Arabs and Biscay, approximately 1,500 each. And so it's already cost $5,000 million euros Euscala Y, and it's not finished yet, and it's quite finished. For the development of the works is not measured in meters, but in money, in euros, and there are only five thousand euros, and the middle is half. The solutions in the capital are missing, the entire combination of the Jungle is missing, and it is missing that you did not mention −eta because now it seems to be the only connection with France. between the belly, between Donostia and Irun, let's have the new Irun platform. Or is that right now? So there's half of it. And we don't think it's proper for us to keep throwing millions in that infrastructure. And as for the bonds, we are very clear that these bonds are useless, and are not necessary. And the French State has understood very well. What has the French State chosen? Between Bordeaux and Hendaia... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...that they're useless, that they're not necessary. And the French State has understood very well. What has the French State chosen? To modernize the path between Bordeaux and Hendaia. To make an investment to improve it without making a new platform. And that's what we've been defending for years and years about other ties. Miranda, Gasteiz, Altsau, there shouldn't be another link there. It is possible to obtain competitive speeds by cortacting, by cortacting, by making necessary innovations, by doubling, or by adapting the necessary width. And that's the same thing with the south end of the Bilbo. Even the Natural Barakal platform showed that there is an alternative and that it is not necessary to make a new platform. So we think it's the time, instead of throwing millions and millions into those bonds, a potent change in the direction of public investment policies. For what people need right now is to strengthen public services, it needs education, it needs health, it needs − to avoid going out of trains, it needs a modern network of temporary trains, not what we have right now. You're putting all the cash bags into the big-speed train basket and there's no money left for other strategic investments. We have a very clear notion that in this policy of public investments a very important change is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u110	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I understand the interest generated by a work of this magnitude, even the tiredness that can provoke in the citizenry the lack of progress at certain times, almost always linked to the times in which the People's Party governs Spain. Previously, very visually and graphically, the lehendakari has exposed it. This is an issue that lends itself to debate, even to controversy, because we are talking about a complex infrastructure, an extraordinary scale, which has experienced many vicissitudes throughout its development, has suffered a profound economic crisis, major technical problems, in addition to the scourge of ETA terrorism in the form of sabotage, extortion and even murder. And I think I have been very clear about the Basque Government's commitment to boosting this infrastructure in Euskadi. At present, we are at a fruitful stage of collaboration that we want to see go further, and that this legislature is a turning point for the advance of the high-speed train in Euskadi. And in this we are working, both directly in the works of the Gipuzcoan branch and through interinstitutional cooperation formulas that favor the execution of the high-speed line in the rest of the territory. You are committed to denoting the high-speed train and drawing an image of this infrastructure that is not true. I have explained to you, and I think it has become clear, that the section between Burgos and Vitoria-Gasteiz has never been designed to accommodate passengers and goods; from the beginning, the information study has considered it as an exclusive passenger route, as well as other sections as already mentioned Valladolid-Burgos. Not so the Basque Y, which was originally designed as a mixed route; among other issues, because of the constraints of the conventional networks currently in existence in areas of our Autonomous Community, which do not make it advisable to use them for the passage of goods. What does this mean, that the goods will either be able to continue by rail once they leave the Euskadi, that they will have to continue by road, as some agrarians point out? Well, no. This is an interesting and enticing reading of certain collectives who have always been against this infrastructure. Look, the planning of the passenger and freight networks (...) coincide, and, where it is not possible, implement the conventional wide network so that the goods also circulate in international width. And that's what Euskadi has asked to be done once the goods come out of the Basque Y. There is another issue that has been discussed today in this Parliament, which also causes a lot of upheaval, and it is the issue of the dates of completion of the works of the TAV in Euskadi. And (...) it means that at the time when I took responsibility for transport again, in September of the year 20, I undertook to analyse, together with the Government of Spain, the situation, in order to be able to set realistic deadlines in the implementation of this infrastructure. And that's what I did. And in March 2021, in this very House, I moved the horizon that the Government manages for the completion of the work of the Basque Y, and which is situated - as you already know, and I said then - at the end of the 26th and beginning of the 27th. And I also said that there were no urban interventions in Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz on this completion horizon, both in an informative study. For this reason, it is incomprehensible that groups who asked for this year and a half ago and received a full answer and answer today are surprised by something they already knew. Unless they're simply looking for a reason for confrontation. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, who knows me knows that I am a patient person and that I am not tired of giving as many explanations as is necessary to clarify matters and reach consensus. But it is clear that on this issue we will not agree, because you and your group have been against the high-speed train forever, and have tried to paralyze, block and boycott it with all the tools you have had at your disposal both in the past and in the present. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, what really makes no sense is to open, at this stage, a plebiscite debate about the origin or not of this project. A provenance that is fully consolidated and approved by all the institutions, and assumed by the vast majority of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the case of David Soso Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzer members of the Antice team for the head of the Medical Department, about the State of Onkological." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u112	Good morning... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...made from the head physician of the Ossae, about the state of the Onkological. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u113	Good morning, Counselor. The Onkologikoa Patient and User Commission and the company committee of this hospital have denounced the deterioration in the quality of the service at the centre, and have ensured that Onkologikoa has ceased to have a monographic character. I ask you: What is the reason for Onkologikoa's new situation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u115	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. First of all, I must tell you that I can't share any of the statements you ask, because they don't agree with reality. Onkologikoa has been a monographic centre dedicated to the care of people diagnosed with cancer. In fact, this process of becoming the benchmark in the fight against cancer, not only for the population of Gipuzkoa but for the citizens of Euskadi. A centre to apply new treatments and techniques that are being incorporated into Osakidetza's portfolio of services, such as proton therapy, which will soon be incorporated. Onkologikoa's staff knows that they have guaranteed their job stability and that those who enjoyed worse working or remunerative conditions than those of Osakidetza have been approved, which has not happened in the opposite case: no one has been reduced their emoluments. Fortunately, waiting time has not increased significantly in most care activities. It is true that the assessment of complex situations requires more time to make and execute the best decisions, but not because of the integration in Osakidetza of Onkologikoa. Your statement on mortality, which also appears, I would like to ask you to contextualize it, because the mortality data are linked to factors that take place over the years, in the same way that the effects on mortality have on research or new therapies can not be verified but in the very long term, not in the course of a year, which is as you have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u117	Thank you, Counselor, for the answers. I think it's kind of surprising. I, three weeks ago, visited the Oncology, and I found that there were 12 patients at that time, in the Oncology, admitted, from a center that has 50 rooms and 100 beds. In fact, I could see with my own eyes rooms in which what was done was to store chairs; rooms where there should be patients, there were stored chairs. Teams that work perfectly have been dissolved, and many medical specialists have either left Oncology or been transferred. This is not something I say. It is that, the former chief of surgery, Mr Ayestarán, recently also mentioned in a letter published by him that there is currently a workload deficit regarding Onkologikoa professionals, who do not have patients to cover and who are looking at the wall, literally, without having any function in their day to day. The Mama Unit, the first recognized in the Spanish State, has already been dismantled. Pathological anatomy and surgery, too. Only Radiotherapy, Nuclear Medicine and Oncology units are maintained. A fundamental space such as the Belatoki has been eliminated, a special space for those who want to look after their relatives in the event of loss. As for the equipment of Protontherapy, which you mentioned and said that it will also be soon when it starts, what we know is that the forecast in its start-up is expected to be four or five years from now. You will already clarify whether it is in the near future or within four or five years, because, if we have to wait then, it may even be obsolete that technology. Concerning the monographic character of the centre. As I told you, the workers' committee, as well as the Patient's Commission, denounce this loss of a monographic nature. In fact, some former patients come to say, literally, that in 2012 her mother had a cancer treatment, she was treated in the Oncological, in this case Olatz Mercader, I am referring to some statements that this patient recently made public also from the center, said that her mother had to be treated in the Oncological, and that the same morning they drew blood, went through consultation and was given chemotherapy. Same day. Now, on the other hand, you have to go through your town's outpatient clinic to get him out of blood the day after the oncology, and wait between one or two hours for the consultation, plus three more for chemotherapy. This was expressed by this patient, who is not the only one who has expressed that to the extent that patients are not being transferred to the Oncology and in turn have dismantled certain services from the Center itself, and, in turn, the workers complain that on many occasions they have nothing to do, obviously it is clear that the monographic character has been lost from a center that was pointed up until a few years ago. And in this regard, and now that we are in the year of the extension of the convention, I ask you to explain what it is, what are the next steps. To the extent that a new convention is to be made, what level of integration will be achieved with the convention. And you made - if I remember correctly - statements that the Oncological was going to become, or was going to be integrated as OSI. I would also like, what kind of integration will the Oncological have in terms of OSI, if so, whether it will be integrated into OSI Donostialdea or what.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u119	Soto jauna, I repeat that the monographic character of Onkologikoa has not been lost because monographic means, precisely, that it is dedicated exclusively to one, in this case, an attention. That attention is that of all the cancer processes, and that is what the center is dedicated to. What you have then mixed is the arrangement of different tests that can be performed sometimes in Onkologikoa, or others in your health centers, because remember that Osakidetza works and is an integrated network. Osakidetza is actually with Onkologikoa in a transitional phase, which you mentioned, with the renewal of the bonding agreement... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Osakidetza is indeed with Onkologikoa in a transitional phase, which you mentioned, with the renewal of the binding agreement, as soon as the integration of the centre takes place. And with that, what he's going to do is not take care of a small part of the patients, as he did before. (...) care for all patients in Euskadi. You have also stated that the benefit at the centre has worsened. Which I tell you is not in line with reality, and that it does so from the ignorance of what a cancer patient needs, which is often not the exclusive attention of the professionals and professionals who are in one of the centers, but of the entire network of professionals. He says he made a visit in which I understand that you have visited some facilities or some of the facilities in Onkologikoa; that he has more facilities in which there are operationally more people being attended to at this time that you mention. To this day, and unlike what happened before the connection, all patients with any Gipuzkoa cancer have access to the best professionals in the territory. Not only those who are physically in Onkologikoa, but the entire network of professionals that Osakidetza has in the territory of Gipuzkoa, including OSI Donostialdea. It is unthinkable that all these people and technology will physically settle in Onkologikoa, too. Only a multi-disciplinary and multi-centre care model, which is the work of the Health Department for Onkologikoa, will allow all cancer citizens to have access to all professionals as well as technologies, as the best way to attend to their cancer processes. And that's how we're developing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To question," he said, "of Erasitz de Egililaz, the parliamentary laws of the race of Ramos, made of equality, justice, and society, as well as of the chief physician, as of youth, as of liberty and leisure." " Saez de Egillaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u121	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, chief of the Artola generouss. The young men will no longer be part of your section, because you have passed them to the presidency. However, there are still some accounts which we would like to solve before we say goodbye to-day. After the government Council, on October 4th, you used amazing arguments. You yourself said with youth: "Entemus que la juventud no Onlye que ver con poíticas de ocio y tempo free." That's how you justified the change. Is that why you have now noticed that your government has essentially enjoyed its leisure and leisure?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u123	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. In answer to your question, I have to say no, that since last parliamentary term we were clear that youth policies are much more than leisure and leisure time, and that is why we are already promoting specific youth employment programmes through unique projects when I was responsible for employment policies. We also promote collaboration with the Department of Housing and other departments of the Basque Government through Gazte Plana, in order to develop comprehensive youth policies. But now we take one more step. It's horrifying. You're not taking it. Gobernu honek lehendakari buru her, Gazteria Zuzendaritza Lehendakaritzan kokatzen ondorengo onurak ekarriko dituela sinesten du. More and more rapid deployment of non-sectoral cross-cutting youth policies, and the deployment of a specific emancipation policy, aimed at increasing the rate of emancipation, and reducing their average age through the promotion of policies, including housing and employment training. And all this is possible thanks to the adoption of the Youth Act in March of this year - that is, with its vote against -. See if we knew that youth policy is more than leisure and free time, that we already have this entire legislature and also part of the past working to define and promote policies for emancipation. You have witnessed the momentum and transformation that youth policies have had this legislature. You've been a witness, but also from the barrier. Having accepted this rule, the Director of Castile adopted the law, he undertook the euscal strategy for the adoption of young men, and from the beginning with the presidency of the President. With the adoption of this rule, the Youth Directorate, once the law has been passed, has worked on the elaboration of a Basque strategy for youth emancipation that is nearing completion, and from the beginning, in collaboration, of course, with Lehendakaritza. From what you see, Mrs. Egiluz... Saez de Egiluz, this last month we have not dedicated ourselves only to leisure and leisure, but also. And we have laid the foundations for implementing youth policies of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u125	Thank you, Chief Artola generous, for your answers. But what this remark you did in our opinion proves is not acceptable. How is it possible for two years, since this legislation began, that the highest responsible person who has been able to change the conditions of the young man's life is now to say that politics ought to have something more than leisure and free time? Where has he been staring until then? Where have you been looking at the young men when they demanded ambitious policies? And no, of course not. Young men are not only aggrieved for young men, as you said yourself. Araba, Bizia, and the Youngth of Gipus were admitted on March 4th. There was a real chance there for us to work on things that work on our lives. To limit rents, to guarantee the housing rights, to regulate rules with the prevariety of the young people. We offered you all that, and you said no to everything, so you said no to everything. Why? Because you put everything in that mess drawer called youth and free time. That doesn't have any ambition for change. That section we all know is on wet paper. And of course, he doesn't have any... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...youth and free time, that which has no ambition of change, that section which we all know remains on wet paper, and of course, has no capacity to regulate and transform the lives of young women. If we were to be a muse, this government wouldn't make a dime. Porque ya sabeis, como se dice, jugador de pequeña, perdedor al muse. And you, Destruction, only act small in affairs. You've barely given up on this subject a little ambition. We must at least admit that the pretty young people you've done so far have been spoiled. But what we see here is that you are lost in no direction, for two years ago you have justified the removal of the Empire for the President of the Union in order to give more importance to the youths of the President. And what is it, exactame? What is it that these young people have done during the last few years? This? A young man's card? This is one of the only things you've done. Four gifts. Is that all that's to be offered to young people? Four stuns. We don't see anything anymore. And in our opinion, and we truly say, you've brought in a lot of documents for the past two years, at least you've brought a lot of papers. You told us over and over that you were making fun of us. And when I got in touch with you more than once, you also told us members of the EH meeting, you said you had everything under control. But you yourself have photographed this government, and you yourself have admitted to the PNV-PSE government that young policies have hitherto been only a refuge for refugees and leisure. And with this you have confirmed what we knew. Besides, I think that Araba, Bizia, and Gipus knew also: the present and the future of young people has not been one of the preference of the Eukongs; and, unfortunately, if you don't, it won't get excited. And I think our present demands that young people are moving in the kitchens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Well, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, we, as a government, and Basque institutions have been working for many years on youth policies. I think they haven't failed. Yes, it is true that we must give it an additional boost. You, your group, last year abstained from the adoption of the budget, tabled amendments which were intended to strengthen policies that were already being pushed into items that were already covered by the budget. Nothing different than what this Government has already been doing, which has failed from its point of view, and has devoted itself only to managing shelters. We believe that it is time for youth policies to be pushed forward from the Lehendakaritza, just as at the time policies of linguistic normalization or equality that were in Lehendakaritza were pushed forward, because despite the fact that much remains to be done, these policies are consolidated. But we have a Youth Act for the first time and it is up to us to push it forward. And as you well know, from the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, we have been promoting the Youth Network and have been working with other departments to incorporate their needs and drive emancipation into their work. And I'm going to detail three issues we've been doing. A Basque emancipation strategy 2030, which is being finalized in Lehendakaritza; the launch of a personalized support service for young people; attraction, retention, return and connection programs of talent, Ameslariak, and (?) Trapecists, which is a program for young people without family support. We hope and hope that we will be able to count on their contribution, because the Basque Government has already put that will in order to get closer, and we fail to do so. I hope we have more fortune in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interadecialization, the popular group of Carmelo Barrio Barroja-Ciudadans, a member of the Cultura and the head of the Policic Department of Language, about the matters of culture in Abaka." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u129	Good morning, thank you, President, Councillors, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I raise this question with Mr Zupiria so that he can give me an analysis of his department's budget expenditure on cultural matters in Álava. We have seen in previous years, and over several legislatures, quite a number of legislatures, a clear investment imbalance and a clear imbalance in spending in the Historical Territory of Álava in matters affecting its department, mainly cultural promotion, heritage, as essential elements of investment as well as expenditure. And in addition, issues that historically, and which have previously been recognized also by the Government itself in relation to this deficit, with this insufficiency of Alava installed, culturally integrated in the budgets. It is clear how in the very presentation of the last budgets, where were the large items. And basically the major departures were awarded to the other two historical territories, and the difference in relation to what was allocated to this territory, to the Historical Territory of Álava, is absolutely palpable. The simple review of the budgets, the simple review of the investment items of the program of Promotion of Culture and the program of Historical Artistic Heritage attest to it, right? Its departures and quantities confirm the significant differences in projects and infrastructures, art centres, cultural centres, cultural sites, etc., between the Historical Territory of Álava and the others. We are the Alaves or is Alava absolutely behind the other territories in cultural investment and for a long time, and we understand that it must be corrected, it must be corrected by the Government, and investment and expenditure in those historical territories are absolutely necessary, because they are also infrastructures, they are projects, they are entities, they are cultural headquarters of first order. I mean, what needs to be done is an effort here, not to the detriment of anyone, but an effort... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... they are infrastructures, they are projects, they are entities, they are cultural headquarters of first order. So what needs to be done is an effort here, not to the detriment of anyone, but an effort in Alava. Because here's... in the budget of culture, its programmes, its department, its programmes to which I have referred, those millionaire amounts compared to several thousand euros, some projects and some realities that we have in this territory. The press echoed the... I say, for being graphic, in the last budget presentation, among the investments stand out 3,1 million for the Industrial Furniture Center Orconera, located in Barakaldo; 2 million for the Albaola Itsas Faktoria Museum of Pasaia, Gipuzkoa; another 2 million for the accessibility of the Upper Horn of Sestao, Bizkaia, declared cultural heritage; 1.2 million for the Artists Center of Zalla, Bizkaia; in addition to the contributions of 1,5 million the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum for the acquisition of works and (...) 500,000 euros as novelty for IruñaVeleia in Álava. And, well, from there, everything else is an explosion of amounts, of money. I mean, let's talk about cultural infrastructure headquarters, because most of them are in other territories. Let's talk about the Etxepare Institute headquarters. Let's talk about everything that has to do with the Foundation of the Basque Film Library, with everything that houses Tabakalera. Let's talk about the headquarters of the Basque Orchestra, which also has 8 million euros and peaks and which is located outside this historical territory. Let's talk about the movie festival and let's talk about the giant Guggenheim. We will talk about many more museums, besides in Bizkaia still, here we have the Artium, but totally far apart from the amounts that are budgeted for Guggenheim and for the Fine Arts of Bilbao, without going further. And we also see how big festivals and big dates and contests are also out. We see the absolutely exemplary and enriching film festival, which, of course, we follow closely and want to continue to enhance. We see opera festivals in Bilbao, etc., etc. And, well, here we are left with some important issues, of course, too, but absolutely undersized in economic terms, such as the theatre festival, the Festval and some other issues, but, well, ridiculously subsidized, or the jazz festival, ridiculously subsidized by this department. I think we need to think about this, and that is what we are asking you to do in view of the forthcoming budgetary exercises once this difference in cultural promotion policy has been recognised. I'll say it again. The recent legislatures have found this important territorial imbalance, the cultural policies financed by the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country through the programmes mentioned to the detriment of this historical territory. I say again, we must make this effort here, not to the detriment of the other efforts that can be made - because they are very important, they are also tractors of cultural, artistic, economic and tourist attraction model and many other issues -. But here we have a deficit that needs to be overcome. We are at the right time for this, and that is why we are doing it now in the foreground of some budgets. And budgets mean that good time to correct that unfavorable situation. Already a few years ago, this insufficiency was recognized for Álava in the budgets. Those two programs from your department. The main cultural investments many years ago are outside of Vitoria and Álava. And we do want to know their position, because we want to help the government also to build and help the Álava budgets to have a greater presence in the cultural landscape. And for that very reason, that is our intention. We have already tried to do so on some occasions when we also negotiated some budgets trying to influence in a minimal way, as we could, a greater increase in budget allocations for cultural programmes in Álava. I think it's a good time to do that thinking and that you don't do it. We have had great cultural news in Álava, not by the hand of his department, from the hand of private initiative. We have a new university in Álava that we had to be greeting every day as an element of cultural factor and promotion of this country. Well, let's see if the Basque Government gets a little stacked up and sufficiently improves the cultural economic contributions in Álava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u131	The lawmaster, members of the legislature, fellow governments, good days. I'll start at the end. Mr. Barrio, Álava is going to have a bigger presence in our budget. And two, it will seem to me that there is some (...) that we reach a budgetary agreement. Well, let's try. Thank you. Its inquiry coincides, moreover – it will not be a coincidence – fully with the process of preparing budgets of the Basque Government for 2023. And I take it that, after this question, it will coincide with the parliamentary budgetary procedure, and the motion will also come for us to support what you are going to propose. Better if I did it by amendment, but, well, agreed amendment I mean. But we'll talk. You are in your right to put it this way, and I thank you very much for giving me an opportunity to explain myself in the forecasts we have for the 2023 budget with regard to the territory of Álava. I believe that the projects that we will include in it are of great importance, and they are also relevant elements that will give a projection to Álava and, therefore, to the whole of Euskadi. The budget shall first reflect sufficient financial commitment to address the projects covered by the Berpiztu Plan and specified in the Aiaraldea Preferred Area of Action. This plan was approved by the Governing Council on 1 March. It fully undertakes an investment commitment in Aiaraldea of €28.49 million, of which the Government will contribute 24. The investments that we finance from the Department of Culture in this program amount to 2 million euros, and are the following. First, we will allocate 500,000 euros to the project of the new antzoki of Laudio. Of that half a million euros, this year we have already allocated 100,000, and the budget of the year... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... we will allocate 500,000 euros to the project of the new antzoki of Laudio. Of that half a million euros, this year we have already allocated 100,000, and the budget for the year 2023 will provide for another 400,000 euros. The objective of this investment, in collaboration with the Diputación Foral de Álava and the Municipality of Laudio/Llodio, is to promote and promote a new cultural and creative space to promote the cultural, social and economic activity of the municipality and of the entire region. We believe that this new antzoki can play a tractor role in the region. Secondly, within the Plan of Aiaraldea, we have already allocated 50,000 euros this year and we will allocate in 2023 another 650,000 euros for the enhancement of the cultural heritage of Orduña, with two main actions: on the one hand, the restoration of the environment of the Virgin of the Ancient; and, on the other, actions to give greater importance and new uses to one of the cloths of the ancient wall of Orduña. And thirdly, there will be several improvement interventions in the monumental set of Artzinega. These are interventions in the House of Culture and in the Ortiz Tower of Molinillo and Velasco. To this latter project, our Department will allocate a total of 800,000 euros between the years 22 and 23. This applies to the area of Aiaraldea and within the forecasts as a preferred area of action. It continued to invest more in the Historical Territory of Álava. This year, 22, we have reached an agreement with the Foral de Álava Council to address in the coming years important joint investment commitments for the improvement of three valuable cultural heritage assets. First, the Castle of Leisure, in Zambrana. To this improvement project we will allocate, from the Basque Government, a total of 610,000 euros between 2022 and 2025. This financial year 2022 we have already made a contribution of 300,000 euros, and in 2023 we will allocate another 50,000 euros; and the remaining 260,000 we have budgeted for the years 24 and 25. Second, the historic wall of Labraza. For this intervention we will budget in 2023, 50,000 euros. However, it is a forecast that can be subject to modifications that could result from the intervention plan in the wall, still under development. And thirdly, improvement actions for the enhancement of the archaeological site of Iruña-Veleia, with 600,000 euros of investment by the Basque Government, 150,000 euros each year, between 2022 and 2025. In addition to the budgets of the Basque institutions, this year 2022 we have directed another €900,000 from the Next funds to Iruña-Veleia. This is agreed by the Government and the Foral Chamber of Álava, in order to strengthen this bet. Iruña-Veleia is one of our jewels of the Roman era, it is one of the most valuable from the point of view of archaeological heritage. And the Basque Government and the Basque institutions in general are acting from this conviction. These are the main investments that we hope to approve in the budget of 2023, but, logically, there will be many more items that will be allocated to the lavish territory or its cultural fabric and will be included in the budget of our Department. I would like to highlight the contribution to the Artium Museum, a reference museum of contemporary art in Euskadi. Our contribution to the museum's operating expenses will be realized in 2023, at 1,325,000 euros; that is, 100,000 euros more than this year 2022, 8.1% more. To this should be added an item that has become annual for investments of 100,000 euros, most of which is for the purchase of works of art. And in addition to all this, there is the program called "shared action" that we started in 2020 on the occasion of the pandemic, at the time, worth 150,000 euros, for the purchase of works of art by contemporary Basque artists, men and women. In 2023, we will consolidate this contribution, and we will increase it to EUR 200,000. In this line of betting on Artium, we continue to drive this art center as a reference for other activities. First, it is the headquarters in Álava de Euskadiko Filmoteca and its corresponding programmes, which are taken over by the Department of Culture. We also continue with the bet to locate in Artium the Irudika program, which in 2023 will have 40,000 euros. It is an international professional meeting of illustrators and illustrators that takes place in Artium and that is increasingly successful and projection, as we have seen a few days ago. I would also like to refer to the Salad Valley of Añana. Another firm commitment of the Government in Araba. In 2023, the contribution of the Department of Culture will increase from EUR 220,000 to EUR 250,000. The Salinas de Añana represent a unique heritage element of great cultural value for the region of Añana, also for its tourism, and for all Araba and Euskadi. Cathedral of Santa Maria. It has been many years of strong investment by all the institutions, an effort that has certainly been worth it. It is a clear exponent of good practice in revaluing cultural heritage and its socialization. The Government will maintain its investment of 150,000 euros in 2023. These are some of the largest investments and contributions that the Department will propose for the 2023 budget. Alongside them, will be the contributions that the Department will make to the Festival de Jazz de Vitoria, to the campus of free to play video games, the Festival de Teatro de Humor de Araia, the Festival Internacional de Magic de Vitoria-Gasteiz, the Festival de Televisión FesTVal and the Festival de Teatro Kaldearte. Of course, we must also remember all the contributions that will come to the music halls of Vitoria through its corresponding call. And I also want to highlight the support that has to do with the conservation, management and access of the documentary real estate or archives: for example, to the gangs of the historical territory, for the maintenance of the regional archival services, 120,000 euros; to the Bishop of Vitoria for the digitization of their archives, 25,000 euros... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... of archive, 120,000 euros; to the Bishopric of Vitoria for the digitization of its archives, 25,000 euros; 25 local entities of Araba have received this year a subsidy for the maintenance and management of their archives for an amount of 50,752 euros, to which they will surely be able to arrive again at the next call. The Araba libraries have received a total of 206,664 euros, through the calls corresponding to the purpose of expanding and renewing their library funds, promoting the reading habit and incorporating technological improvements. The City Council of Zalduondo has obtained a subsidy for 3 years of 196,000 euros, for the valorization of the bowling alley, and that of Zambrana another 90,600 euros, for the intervention in the Castle of Portilla. I would also like to highlight the call for the enhancement of intangible heritage. This year, 2022, two projects have benefited: one related to the vereda or auzolan in the Alavese councils, 30,000 euros, and the other for the intangible cultural heritage of the Alavesa Mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u133	Thank you, President. Well, I thank the advisor for his information. Then you'll have more time, because I think you've cut yourself into the project relationship. Most of them are regular projects, projects that are already in our budgets, which are increasing minimally, and which, well, is the usual. But we have to see, we have to do a more in-depth reflection, Mr. Counsellor. We have come from far behind, Mr. Zupiria, in relation to the investments and cultural expenditure of Álava, and, in particular, from your department in this historic territory, eh? He has made me a relationship of actions, some usual and that we already know, of the reading of budgets, some habitual... Valle Salado, who, logically, sees insufficient what you have announced here... Well, we'll try to increase it... and some other issues. But we're light years away. And I've drawn a lot of attention that includes among the projects from Álava to Orduña, that well, it's not bad, but Orduña isn't Álava yet. Someday the Orduñese want to become alavesos, but, well, it's not the debate that brings us here. Anyway, light years. Years in the light of what must be a reflection of the Government on the inadequacy of the cultural policies of the Basque Government in Álava. There has to be a more far-reaching, more cultural background plan for Álava from her apartment. And it would have to do so, of course, in union with the other institutions that have so much to say: municipalities of Álava or the Diputación Foral, which also all have competences. I need that information, because yes, logically, I'm going to make a motion. And I am also going to make amendments. I mean, that's true. I was referring to budgetary support for those of a few years ago, which was also the subject of culture at the heart of the agreement, but, in any case, well, we will see how your and everyone's disposition develops. Ours is going to be the way of amendment, so make constructive contributions, and of course that will be. I don't want this question to be taken, when I refer to Álava, as a question that some might call a provincialist or... It is the subject of cultural policy in Álava by the Basque Government, it is an outstanding subject, Mr Zupiria. And you know, it's a pending subject, among those megaprojects that we have running in other historic territories, absolutely right and that we support, with those that we have in Álava, in relation to infrastructures, in relation to festivals, in relation to headquarters of institutions, in relation to future projects, in relation to creativity with the world of cultural factories. It's just, there's light years. And that is why there has to be something that will get the people of Alaves out of this budgetary amnesia in cultural matters. There has to be something, beyond a ratio of figures that are similar to last year, with some new developments. I think that's what we have to do. I beg you to review those budgets. I would also ask you if you can include in the budget a reflection factor, a strategic plan factor for the future, a factor that overcomes these needs and the distance that the Alaves have in relation to other citizens of this country in investment and cultural spending, I think we will have good news. I'm asking you to do it. I will help you do this, through our initiatives, through our motions, or through our amendments. I, of course, am not an expert in folding; I mean, that's why I don't take them out. I am not like Mr Otero or Mr Casanova, who know how to pull out the foldables very well, now with the lehendakari as an advanced student, who today has also taken us out no. But if I took out a drop-off with the difference in investments between Álava and Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, then you would all be surprised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u134	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u135	President andrea. Yellow neighborhood, my ignorance does not come to the point of not knowing that Orduña is Bizkaia. But it's just that in your project relationship you've completely eluded everyone that had anything to do with Aiaraldea, and it seemed to me that it was time to bring them in, wasn't it? Look, my relationship with you in these six years in which I have been at the head of the Department of Culture has been very enriching, because thanks to those parliamentary and budgetary agreements that we reached a few years ago we both forced ourselves to think about what could be developed in Álava, and what other things we could copy, even in communities where the People's Party ruled, copied or used as a model, to try to develop them in this territory. I believe that the result of this collaboration has been very clear commitments and bets from our department in the territory of the Sierra Leone. Sometimes we all have to create things a little more. I think... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...clear from our department in the lauvées territory. Sometimes we all have to create things a little more. I believe that the whole environment that has to do with Añana, Iruña-Veleia, is an area that, if we believe it, can have tremendous potential, both from the point of view of the recovery of the heritage, of its knowledge, but also for the development of new economic activities. And of course, in that sense, public-private collaboration is also a fundamental fact that is sometimes lacking. In any case, Mr Barrio, I will not fail to quote three more projects that we are developing in the territory of Alava, and which have to do with the cultural factories that you have mentioned as being Garaion, Azala or Aiaraldea Ekintzen Faktoria, with a total of 300,000 euros in two years, which are important and reference places in Euskadi, even in Europe. And that's also what we need to believe. Anyway, as you do in this room, I'm holding your arm so we can settle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-14.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended one o'clock in the morning and seven.
